#  University of Calgary - Dermatology - Calgary  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 05, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Jori Hardin  

Address Dermatology  
Richmond Road Diagnostic & Treatment Centre  
1820 Richmond Road SW  
Calgary , Alberta, T2T 5C7  

Work  (403) 955-8679

Fax

Websites of Interest [ University of Calgary Dermatology
](http://www.departmentofmedicine.com/DERM/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Ivana Ellsworth

Title: Program Administrator

Email: Ivana.Ellsworth@albertahealthservices.ca

  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

All applications must be in English.

You are required to declare any real or perceived conflicts of interest to
documents submitted in your application. For example (not an exhaustive list):
publications or projects done with family members; monetized dermatology
related projects; funding sources for experiences. This information may be
used in the assessment process.

Please include a statement in your personal letter indicating if you did or
did not use ChatGPT or other AI to generate any of the letter.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

**In 500 words, please introduce yourself to our program, describe your
journey to medicine/dermatology, including obstacles and setbacks, and answer
the following: what values do you hold that will influence your career
trajectory in medicine/ dermatology?**

All letters must include a statement about AI that will not be included in
your word count: I did/did not use ChatGPT or other AI to generate any part of
my personal letter.



Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Custom Résumé / CV

Candidates should include an up-to-date copy of their CV.

Conditionally required

Graduate Transcript (Master/PhD Degree)

Order from your Registrar.

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

Candidates are encouraged to submit abstracts of their publications.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applications will be reviewed by members of the residency program committee
and assigned an overall score based on the following features with information
gleaned from each applicant's entire file (academic record and scholarly
activities, personal letter and letters of reference, CV, MSPR, evidence of
proficiency with CanMEDs competencies, elective experiences, research
experiences).  

\- Cognitive knowledge and skills

\- Sense of organization, punctuality, stick-to-itiveness/grit, reliability

 \- Behavior, attitude, maturity

 \- Communication skills, working relationships, being a team player

 \- Motivation for dermatology, obstacles overcome to gain access to
profession

 \- Sense of responsibility, autonomy, willingness to take ownership

 \- Clinical judgement

 \- Ability to take and incorporate feedback

 \- Procedural skills specific to dermatology

 \- Special qualities and/or unique contributions

\- Commitment to providing service to an underserved community

The top ranked candidates will then be invited for an interview. Interviews
will occur in a virtual format, details TBA. The inclusion/exclusion process
will not be discussed with applicants after interview selections are made. The
selection process will also not be discussed with interviewees after the CaRMS
match.



* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 6, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be conducted virtually on
February 6, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Only applicants selected for an
interview will be contacted by the program.  The total duration of the
interview(s) will be approximately 30 minutes. Telephone interviews will be
offered only in extenuating circumstances.  
  
All candidates selected for interview will be interviewed on the same day. The
interview process and contents are the same for all candidates, and the
interview panel is also the same for all candidates.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Applicants are encouraged to outline unique circumstances that may have had an
impact on their education or career trajectory.

The candidate that we are looking for must have excellent interpersonal
skills, good clinical judgment, high ethical and professional standards,
outstanding academic records, and demonstrate a commitment to learning and
personal growth.

## Program goals

This program is designed to fully satisfy the goals and objectives of training
in dermatology as enunciated by the Dermatology Specialty Committee of the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada (RCPSC). Upon completion of
training, a resident is expected to be a competent specialist in Dermatology
capable of assuming a consultant's role in the specialty, including its
foundations in the basic medical sciences and research. Residents must
demonstrate the requisite knowledge, skills, and attitudes for effective
patient-centered care and service to a diverse population.

## Selection process goals

Candidates will be selected on the basis of academic performance/cognitive
knowledge and skills, reliability, ability to function as a team player,
professionalism, communication skills, willingness to receive and deliver
feedback, work ethic and commitment to learning, and their potential to
contribute to Canadian Dermatology and serve the Canadian population. It is
not mandatory for candidates to spend elective time at the University of
Calgary, as we understand the challenges with scheduling dermatology electives
across the country.

## File review process

Review team composition : Applications are reviewed by members of the
residency program committee which includes two dermatology residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  previous training/work experiences, life experiences, research experience & publications, awards/achievements, leadership & committees   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Elective experiences   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Life experiences, diversity of interests and background   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership experience/ humanitarianism, leadership roles within medicine and their life prior to medicine   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Clinical rotation performance and written feedback from preceptors   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Introduction of the applicant to our program, their journey to medicine/dermatology, motivation to the specialty, desire to work in a rural or remote area or with an underserved population   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  References may be contacted directly. Professionalism, humanity, compassion, collaboration, knowledge, work ethic, communication, managerial skills, academic performance/cognitive knowledge and skills, reliability, ability to function as a team player, communication skills, willingness to receive and deliver feedback, work ethic and commitment to learning, potential to contribute to Canadian Dermatology   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Demonstration of curiosity and inquiry in medicine, ability to take projects to completion and work within a team, quality of research projects, publications, presentations   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Collegiality |  General behaviour and interaction with interviewers   
Communication skills |  Ability to effectively communicate in a respectful and truthful manner   
Health advocacy |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Interest in the discipline |  Motivation, career goals, steps taken to get where they are/obstacles overcome   
Interest in the program |  Appealing features of program   
Leadership skills |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Professionalism |  Integrity, honesty, respectfulness   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

 The Dermatology Residency Program at the UofC offers: |  ** ** ** ** |  \- A faculty and department committed to excellence in clinical medicine, research, and medical education \- A highly collegial and supportive training environment for residents, with a focus on resident learning and mentorship -**Option for interested residents to participate in a dedicated pediatric dermatology stream** -A comprehensive and flexible educational program in the field of dermatology -Dedicated subspecialty clinics in Immuno-dermatology, Pediatric dermatology, Surgical dermatology and MOHS, Wound Care, Contact Dermatitis, Surgical Oncology/Melanoma, Cutaneous Lymphoma, Rural Medicine and Virtual care -Focus on clinical dermatology and morphology with opportunities for basic science and clinical research -Resident curriculum thoughtful and structured with equal component of resident and faculty lead presentations -Residents complete and participate in anti-racism training including workshops on implicit bias in medicine, bystander intervention training, and a focus on upholding the Calls to Action of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada -Longitudinal dermatopathology teaching in the form of mandatory rotations, as well as monthly lectures at academic half day and monthly multi-head microscope case-based teaching by dermatopathologists -Protected time to enable attendance at academic half day sessions -Funding for conference travel in the core Dermatology years as well as funding support for research presentations -Average weekly at-home call of 1 in 8 -Ratio of residents to faculty during core Dermatology years of 1.5:1 -Ample elective time allowing the candidate to choose rotations based on their career goals, formalized mentorship program with faculty and residents -The opportunity to pursue interprovincial and international electives  We encourage and welcome students from out-of-province to apply to our program  
---|---  
  


  
  


* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Dermatology Residency Program at the University of Calgary is a hospital
and community-based, five-year residency training program. **Residents
interested in Pediatric Dermatology can apply for our Pediatric Dermatology
focused stream. The culture of our program is one that values learning,
reliability, and perseverance.  **

Candidates who match to this program will complete at least one year (PGY-1,
PGY-2) of approved residency training in internal medicine or pediatrics.
These years are designed to fulfill the requirements of the Royal College for
dermatology training and to become a well-rounded physician and are provided
at the University of Calgary teaching hospitals.

Rotations in PGY-1 include medical dermatology (scheduled in your first two
blocks to welcome you to the program), infectious disease (adult and
pediatric), on-patient internal medicine teams, ER, pediatric ER, in-patient
pediatric teams, rheumatology (adult and pediatric), medical genetics, and
elective time. PGY-2 is similar and includes two blocks of medical
dermatology, one block of pediatric dermatology, research, elective, internal
medicine teams, medical oncology, dermatopathology, plastic surgery, and
dermatologic surgery. **In preparation for the changes of the timing of the
Royal College exam with CBD, we have increased dermatology exposure in PGY-1
and PGY-2 years.  **

The PGY-3, PGY-4 and PGY-5 years will be dedicated to specialty training in
both inpatient and outpatient dermatology. Residents will rotate through
several subspecialty clinics which include pediatric dermatology (including
multidisciplinary genodermatoses, plastic surgery-dermatology, and vascular
anomalies/laser clinics), contact dermatitis clinic with patch testing, wound
healing, phototherapy, skin cancer, dermatologic surgery,  teledermatology,
solid organ transplant, multidisciplinary cutaneous lymphoma, immunobullous
and multidisciplinary connective tissue disease clinics. Our main academic
center is a tertiary referral center, and residents will have equal exposure
to these clinics in addition to robust community dermatology training where
the breadth and volume of dermatology is exposed. Residents have graded levels
of responsibility, preparing them for graduation and independent clinical
practice.

There are both mandatory and optional academic symposia for PGY1-5 arranged by
the PGME office at the University of Calgary, ranging from training residents
to be excellent teachers, fatigue risk management and wellness, to statistics
and bioethics.

Residents will attend clinics at the Richmond Road Diagnostic and Treatment
Centre, the Foothills Medical Centre, the Alberta Children's Hospital and the
Sheldon M. Chumir Health Centre.  Hospital consultations will be seen at the
Foothills Medical Centre, the Rockyview General Hospital, the Peter Lougheed
Centre, the South Health Campus and the Alberta Children's Hospital.  Rural
rotations are available in Medicine Hat, Lethbridge and Canmore. Residents
will also have the opportunity to work at The Alex community Health Centre in
Calgary and the Siksika and Stoney First Nation Reserves.

Dermatologic surgery training is a strength of the program. We have surgical
simulation sessions using cadavers six times yearly where students progress
from basic surgical skills to advanced skills over the course of their
training. Specialized procedures including laser therapy and phototherapy will
be available to our residents through the offices of several community-based
dermatologists in Calgary who actively support our residency program.

Pediatric dermatology training will occur at the Alberta's Children's Hospital
and Richmond Road Diagnostic Treatment Centre. We have the ability to create a
specific Pediatric Dermatology Stream within our framework for interested
candidates.

Dermatopathology training will be carried out at Alberta Precision
Laboratories Testing Lab under the direction of several dedicated
dermatopathologists.

Innovation within resident education is driven by residents, who contribute
with curriculum development and design. The residency program committee is
very receptive to resident feedback with the desire to continually enhance
academic half day and resident teaching. Practice examinations including 5
OSCEs and Mock DRIVE (practice oral and written exam) are held yearly for
senior residents. PGY-3 Residents are encouraged to take the American Board of
Dermatology (ABD) BASIC exam and the PGY4-5s can take the ABD Core
examinations if they so choose.  We have monthly Bolognia Chapter review
questions prepared by faculty to aid in resident retention of medical content.
Residents meet with faculty advisors 4 times per year and with the program
director twice yearly for mentorship, career counselling, and developmental
feedback.

PGY-1, PGY-2  
  

These years are arranged to encompass several facets of clinical medicine
using a standard rotating format. Residents will complete at least one year of
approved residency training in internal medicine or pediatrics.



PGY 1

  * Internal Medicine **3 blocks**
  * General Dermatology **2 blocks**
  * Infectious Disease
  * Adult Rheumatology
  * Pediatric Rheumatology
  * Medical Genetics
  * Adult Emergency
  * Pediatric Emergency
  * Pediatrics
  * Elective



PGY 2

  * Internal Medicine **2 blocks**
  * General Dermatology **2 blocks**
  * Pediatric Dermatology
  * Research
  * Peds Plastic surgery
  * Adult Plastic surgery
  * Dermatologic Surgery
  * Peds Infectious Disease
  * Elective
  * Medical oncology*
  * Dermatopathology

PGY-3, PGY-4, PGY-5  
  

The PGY-3, PGY-4 and PGY-5 years will consist of rotations through hospital,
community and rural-based settings. In addition to general Dermatology
clinics, residents will rotate through several subspecialty clinics. These
include pediatric dermatology, patch test, wound healing, phototherapy, skin
cancer, dermatologic surgery, laser, teledermatology, solid organ transplant,
lymphoma, immunobullous and connective tissue disease clinics. Throughout
their rotations, residents will be exposed to inpatient dermatology and
provide inpatient consultations. In order to support the future career goals
of our residents, ample elective time will be provided. In the final year,
residents will be expected to take increased responsibility in decision making
with regards to managing patients within the clinics and on the wards. Greater
participation in teaching, supervising and supporting junior residents as well
as non-dermatology residents and medical students is expected. The Lead
Resident is appointed by his/her peers and has additional administrative
duties related to organization of rotations and the academic program under the
guidance of the Program Director.

  
  

Seminars  
  

There is an active academic program at the UofC comprised of morphology
conferences, dermatopathology slide sessions with lectures and discussions,
clinical meetings, patient presentations, teaching rounds, journal clubs and
formal grand rounds. Weekly basic science and clinical seminars are prepared
and presented by trainees under the direction of faculty members. Residents
are encouraged to participate in the biannual Alberta Society of
Dermatologists meetings and to attend clinical and scientific conferences in
Canada, the United States and abroad.

  
  

Research  
  

All residents are required to complete mandatory research rotations. Residents
are strongly encouraged to carry out research relevant to their career goals.
The research may range from basic science through clinical trials and
epidemiologic studies.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

The Division of Dermatology at the University of Calgary has five main
teaching sites: the Richmond Road Diagnostic and Treatment Centre, the
Foothills Medical Centre, the Alberta Children's Hospital, the Sheldon Chumir
Health Centre and the Alberta Precision Laboratory. Hospital consultations
will be seen at the Foothills Medical Centre, the Rockyview General Hospital,
the Peter Lougheed Centre, the South Health Campus and the Alberta Children's
Hospital.  Residents will also rotate through several community and rural-
based Dermatology clinics.

* * *

# Additional Information

**Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada: Applying competency-
based practices to residency education**

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called Competency by Design
(CBD), aims to enhance patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong
learning with evolving patient needs and empowering learners to more fully
engage in their education process.

CBD will use time as a framework rather that the basis for progression. It is
not anticipated that the duration of training will change for the majority of
trainees. Residency programs will be broken down into stages, and each stage
will have a series of milestones based on required competencies. These
milstones will create more targeted learning outcomes and involve more
frequent, formative assessments within the clinical workplace to ensure
residents are developing and receiving feedback on the skills they need.

Dermatology Residency Program formally started CBD in July 2022.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD (and traditional
programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved certification.
Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs will include
the completion of a Royal College examination; however, residents in CBD
programs will also be assessed against program milestones throughout their
training. Within a CBD program, all milestones (documented within an
electronic portfolio) and the Royal College examination must be successfully
completed to achieve certification.



For more information, please contact cbd@royalcollege.ca.



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27046?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27046