#  University of Toronto - Psychiatry - Toronto

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 28

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Adrienne Tan  

Address Department of Psychiatry  
CAMH - College Street Site  
Suite 832, 250 College Street  
Toronto, Ontario, M5T 1R8  

Work

Websites of Interest [ Department of Psychiatry Postgraduate Education
](https://www.psychiatry.utoronto.ca/postgraduate-education-home)  
[ PGME at U of T ](https://pgme.utoronto.ca/)  
[ Toronto: The World at Your Doorstep
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ElmVUKUgVig&feature=youtu.be)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Tammy Mok

Title: Postgraduate Officer

Email: tammy.mok@utoronto.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion**  
All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of the
University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

  
**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)  
** The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.  
  
_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

**Important Information**  

The Department of Psychiatry in the Temerty Faculty of Medicine, University of
Toronto, with its unique breadth and depth of expertise, is well positioned to
shape the future of psychiatry. Our vision is to improve access and transform
mental health care through education, research, and professional development
that meets the needs of our communities.

The core general psychiatry residency program at the Department of Psychiatry,
University of Toronto is built on a strong foundation of research and
education. Teaching, fostering lifelong learning, continuous performance
improvement, and a strong sense of professional identity are central to our
residency program’s mission.

Wellness and Community

Resident wellness and community is supported in a variety of ways – through
the PRAT (Psychiatry Residents’ Association of Toronto), strong resident
leadership through our Chief Residents alongside faculty who are dedicated to
fostering and welcoming the next generation of psychiatrists. We deeply value
learner experience and our faculty teachers endeavor to role model a high
standard of professional behaviour.

Teaching and Learning: Competence by Design (CBD)

Our residency program is a leader in competency-based medical education (CBME)
with the implementation of [CBD](https://www.royalcollege.ca/en/standards-and-
accreditation/competence-by-design.html), Canada’s model for CBME in
postgraduate medical education. Education leadership in the Department of
Psychiatry have led innovations in key components of CBD including workplace-
based leaning and assessment, coaching, feedback and personalized learning
plans. For more information on CBD in the residency program, please see our
[website](https://www.psychiatry.utoronto.ca/competence-design).  The
residency program leverages the size and capacity of the department to deliver
a dynamic and responsive curriculum to prepare residents for independent
practice.

Collaboration and Integration

The broader community within the Department of Psychiatry at the University of
Toronto creates a powerful network that influences and leads all aspects of
mental health care. Through strong relationships between clinicians and
researchers, alumni and faculty, the university and hospitals, our residents
have the opportunity to participate in training experiences at the vanguard of
cutting edge research, clinical excellence, and education.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Applicants should provide all required information. Any questions about the
required information or the interview process should be directed to Tammy Mok
at the contact information above.  
  
In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Applicant support form  Number requested: 3

Traditional letters of reference are no longer accepted for this program. Your
referee must complete the required structured reference form. Please include
this link in your reference request:
<https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/2025-Psychiatry-Structured-Reference-Letter-EN.pdf>

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

Please provide a letter of interest (750 words maximum) to support your
application to Psychiatry at the University of Toronto. We are interested to
hear more about what draws you to considering psychiatry as a career and some
of the experiences that have shaped your trajectory. Please use the questions
below to guide your letter of interest.

 **Part One (300-350 words suggested)**

  * Please tell us about yourself and what experiences (e.g., personal, community, academic, etc.), skills, strengths, and/or perspectives you would bring to psychiatry.
  * What patient care and/or other experiences have shaped your choosing psychiatry?
  * What doubts do you have about your career choice?

 **Part Two (300-350 words suggested)**

  * Why would you like to train at the University of Toronto?
  * What are your potential plans or aspirations in a future career as a psychiatrist?

_Important Note: Please address any gaps in training or remediation periods in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count._





Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Application and Interview Day assessments are combined to assist the selection
committee in candidate selection and CaRMS ranking.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 6, 2025
  * February 7, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will take place on either
February 6 or 7, 2025. These are the only available interview days.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify applicants regarding selection
for interview by January 19, 2024 at the latest.

Details regarding the interview process: Applications are reviewed with
respect to academic trajectory, communication skills, reflective capacity,
interest/aptitude for Psychiatry practice and training.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Applicants invited for a virtual  interview will have the opportunity to
attend a full day 9:45am - 5:30pm EST with our program which will combine
informational sessions about our program, opportunities to meet informally
with residents and faculty, and structured interviews/assessments. All
interviews and information sessions will take place virtually via Zoom.

The Interview/Information Day will be used to explore and assess a variety of
skills and aptitudes needed for psychiatric training and practice, including
communication skills, problem solving skills, reﬂective capacity and
interest/aptitude for psychiatry practice and training.

Applicants will also have the opportunity to meet the Program Directors and
speak with residents. There will also be opportunities to learn more about our
Clinician Scientist Program, Clinician Scholar Program, and Competence by
Design (CBD), and our specialized streams.

PGY1s are selected based on examination of the written application submission
and the interviews/assessments.

## Program goals

The Department of Psychiatry at University of Toronto strives to provide the
best care to today's patients and to transform the understanding and treatment
of mental illness and addiction for the patients of tomorrow. We are building
the future of psychiatry: we collaborate with our hospital partners to create
capacity and improve access to care; we ensure quality care; we promote brain
health and social inclusion of people with mental illnesses and their
families.

Our unique breadth and depth allow us to provide sound clinical care, create
novel knowledge, translate research discoveries and train the future
generations of psychiatry clinicians, educators and researchers

## Selection process goals

The PGY1 Admissions Subcommittee recognizes that many applicants develop an
interest in Psychiatry later in medical school training and/or have limited
access to multiple electives; as such, we encourage ALL applicants with strong
interest and aptitude for Psychiatry to apply, even if applicants have not had
extensive Psychiatry elective experience.

The applicant's combined score on the application and interview day
assessments will inform their position on the rank order list. The PGY1
Admission Subcommittee may, after thoughtful and thorough deliberation, decide
not to rank a candidate, regardless of their score if the committee identifies
a concern that brings into legitimate question the candidate's suitability for
the specialty or readiness for the residency program.

## File review process

Review team composition : Each file is reviewed by a faculty member and a
resident.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 201 - 400  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  All components considered.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted candidates’ opportunities to arrange and complete electives and would like to reassure you that a lack of elective activity will not negatively impact your application to our program.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  All components considered.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  All components considered.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  All components considered.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  All components considered.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  All components considered.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  All components considered.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  All components considered.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  All components considered.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted
candidates’ opportunities to arrange and complete electives and would like to
reassure you that a lack of elective activity will not negatively impact your
application to our program.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  All interviews will be conducted via Zoom.  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  All components are considered.   
Collegiality |  All components are considered.   
Communication skills |  All components are considered.   
Health advocacy |  All components are considered.   
Interest in the discipline |  All components are considered.   
Interest in the program |  All components are considered.   
Leadership skills |  All components are considered.   
Professionalism |  All components are considered.   
Scholarly activities |  All components are considered.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Program strengths identified at our recent Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Canada (RCPSC) accreditation visit in November 2023 include:**

  1. Very engaged program director and leadership team which is empowered and effective to make changes to the program as needed.
  2. The program is responsive to learner concerns with several avenues for resident feedback at the local site leve, program wide, and centrally at the postgraduate medical education (PGME) office. The program has made several major changes in response to learner feedback since the last accreditation visit.
  3. Exceptionally broad training experience with significant depth and expertise across all of psychiatry.
  4. Commitment to underserved and unique populations including an underserved elective experience as part of the training program and a new indigenous clinical experience coming online in July 2024.
  5. Clinician Scholar and Clinician Scientist program provides unique opportunities for research and promote scholarly success.
  6. Program wide culture of learner safety and wellness.

**Program strengths identified at our recent Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Canada (RCPSC) accreditation visit in November 2020 include:**

  1. Breadth of clinical care opportunities.
  2. Plethora of resources, both academically and administratively.
  3. Engaged and highly respected faculty known for excellence in the general quality of 1:1 supervision and teaching.
  4. Program Director who is approachable, engaged and knowledgeable about the program, eager to engage in education scholarship.
  5. Large cadre of leaders with educational expertise, willing to embark upon a major innovative change despite the size of the program, and who have developed a theoretically sound medical education program.
  6. Stellar Program Administrative staff who work cohesively as a team.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.



Ratio of Faculty to Residents 950:200

Elective Time Away: Maximum 6 months during residency training (out of
province or international electives)

As of the 2020-21 academic year, all Canadian psychiatry residency programs
have transitioned to Competence by Design (CBD). Traditionally residents’
developmental stages were referred to by Postgraduate Year (PGY) – and whilst
this convention still exists, with CBD, residents’ developmental trajectory is
also described by developmental stage:

  * Transition to Discipline (TTD)
  * Foundations of Discipline (FOD)
  * Core of Discipline (COD)
  * Transition to Practice (TTP)

PGY1 (TTD and FOD)

PGY1 year consists of an initial transition to discipline (TTD) curriculum
called Ground School. This is intended to provide all trainees with a strong
foundation in medical and psychiatric skills before they advance to their
clinical rotations. Each trainee works directly with a coach throughout
residency training to review and reﬁne their learning goals. The rest of PGY1
consists of 12 four-week rotations/[blocks](https://pgme.utoronto.ca/common-
rotation-dates) in a variety of disciplines.

Clinical rotations

  * 5 blocks of psychiatry
  * 2 blocks of general internal medicine
  * 1 block each of cognitive neurology, emergency medicine, palliative care, neurology
  * 1 block of family medicine or pediatrics
  * Half-day Outpatient Psychiatry Experience – a highly rated outpatient rotation
  * Half-day per week for Academic Half-Day (AHD)

PGCorEd

All University of Toronto Residents will be required to complete the web-based
[PGCorEd](https://pgme.utoronto.ca/pgcored-overview) Teaching in Residency
module within the first 3 months of residency training.

Rotation Structure

For PGY2-5 rotation structure, please see information on our
[website](https://psychiatry.utoronto.ca/current-residents) (Department of
Psychiatry > Education > Postgraduate Education > Current Residents > Rotation
Structure). Throughout residency training, core rotation-based teaching
offered via a variety of instructional methods is also provided by award-
winning teachers and educators.

Opportunity for Subspecialty, Fellowship, and Area of Focused Competence
training

Towards the end of the general psychiatry residency program, residents may
apply for subspecialty training in any of the three Royal College subspecialty
programs: Child & Adolescent, Geriatric, or Forensic Psychiatry. In addition,
numerous post-residency fellowships are available for advanced training. There
are also opportunities to train in Royal College approved Areas of Focused
Competence (AFC) in Addiction Medicine with two AFC's in development: C-L
Psychiatry, and Sleep Disorders Medicine.

**Psychotherapy Training**

PGY2 through PGY5 residents will obtain extensive psychotherapy training
through supervision and seminars in: long- term and short-term psychodynamic
therapy, cognitive-behavioural therapy, interpersonal therapy, and multi-
person therapies including couple, family and group therapy. Training
experiences are also available in MBSR (mindfulness-based stress reduction),
ACT (Acceptance and Commitment Therapy), and DBT (Dialectical Behavior
Therapy).

**Research**

Clinician Scientist Program  
The Department has a large Clinician Scientist Program, comprised of
mentorship, a seminar/workshop series, protected research time (1/2 day a
week), conference funding to support resident travel, and other research
activities. The CSP includes a general stream for psychiatry residents in
PGY3-4 who are interested in a research career, and a graduate stream for
psychiatry residents in PGY-5, and potentially PGY-6 if in sub-specialty
residency training, who have a substantial interest in research and wish to
pursue graduate school. Graduate-stream CSP Residents are encouraged to
register in the Royal College Clinician Investigator Program. There are also
many opportunities for more limited engagement in research projects, such as
through research electives.

Clinician Scholar Program  
The Clinician Scholar Program provides enhanced training for residents
interested in pursuing education scholarship, quality improvement, and other
creative professional activities (including the social sciences and
humanities). Residents apply to the program with a specific project and
supervisor, and receive additional training, mentorship and protected time in
PGY3 and PGY4. The Clinician Scholar Program also supports senior residents in
pursuing graduate studies and further training in these areas, including
doctoral and masters degrees. Outside of the program, there are many
opportunities for residents to engage in scholarship throughout their
training.

**Training Streams:**

In 2024, the University of Toronto piloted two new streams – the Indigenous
Stream as well as the Clinician-Researcher Track. Please see those program
descriptions for further details. Applicants interested in applying for these
training streams will need to submit an application for both the specialized
stream and the general CMG Program. Applicants for the specialized streams
will have additional interview processes and information sessions alongside
participating in standard CaRMS interview process.

**Seminars**

In PGY1 one half day each week is devoted to core curriculum seminars covering
the topics of psychiatry required by the Royal College and University of
Toronto. In PGY2-4, residents will continue to receive teaching in a variety
of ways – through seminars, activities and online interactive modules.
Starting the 2023-24 academic year, residents will write their Royal College
exams in PGY4 and will receive support in doing so from the residency program.
In PGY5, residents participate in a Transition to Practice (TTP) Curriculum.
In addition, each teaching hospital has an active teaching program consisting
of didactic seminars, grand rounds, journal clubs, and interview courses.

* * *

# Training Sites

Several hospitals in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA) are affiliated with the
University of Toronto and together they are members of the Toronto Academic
Health Science Network ([TAHSN](https://www.tahsn.ca/)). In general, core
rotations for psychiatry training occur at fully affiliated hospitals. There
is also elective time integrated into the residency program to explore
training experiences at a variety of hospitals across the GTA. For further
information about specific clinical programs/training sites, please refer to
information on the Department of Psychiatry
[website](https://www.psychiatry.utoronto.ca/) > Divisions and Programs >
Education (for each division).

**Travel to training sites**  
Most core training sites are easily accessible by public transportation or
pedestrian/cycling transportation, depending on where trainees choose to live
in the GTA. Some training site options are more easily accessible by car. The
training program’s internal rotation match system does allow for residents to
be placed at sites up to 60 km away from downtown core. Under those
circumstances, a car may be desirable but is not mandatory.  
  

For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>

* * *

# Additional Information

  1. **Permanent Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education office in order to comply with current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry of Colleges and Universities
  2. **Matched applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data file to the matched university’s postgraduate education office. The postgraduate office will share the information as needed, but not limited to, the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:**  The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure to meet or provide proof**  of any of the stated requirements may result in applicant file being removed at any point during the match.

Strengths of the program include:

  * Leveraging size to offer breadth and depth of educational experiences whilst also fostering sense of community (e.g. through PRAT, Chief Residents at hospital sites, departmental events such as Don Wasylenki Education Day and Annual Department Research Day)
  * Focus on learner experience and professional development 
    * Wellness and learning environment are a core part of residency program’s mission
    * Inclusion of resident representation in core residency program activities (e.g. Residency Program Committee)
    * Coaching and Mentorship Program to support career development
    * Choice of rotations informed by trainee preference/ranking
    * Time for career exploration embedded throughout residency (through elective time or PLEX – personalized learning experiences)
    * Protected time for annual wellness retreats and career development events
    * Opportunities for subsequent advanced training in subspecialties and areas of focused competence (AFCs)
  * Opportunities for research through the Clinician Scientist and Scholar Programs
  * Opportunities for rural, out of province, and international training experiences
  * Exam Preparation 
    * Exam preparation curriculum
    * Protected time to attend review courses
  * Transition to Practice
    * Curriculum to support transition to unsupervised/independent practice
    * Personalized learning plan for trainees with coaching and mentorship



* * *

# FAQ

**Is the program holding any information sessions for potential CaRMS
candidates this year?**

Join us for an informative presentation about the U of T psychiatry program
followed by a question-and-answer period. Program leadership may make a guest
appearance at these sessions. This is a chance to meet some of the U of T
residents, learn more about the program structure and culture, and get your
questions answered. We look forward to seeing you there!

**Session 1:  **Wednesday, October 9, 2024, from 7pm to 8pm EST

**Session 2:   **Wednesday, October 16, 2024, from 2pm to 3pm EST

**Session 3:**  Thursday, November 21, 2024, from 7pm to 8pm EST

For meeting links please visit [CANPREPP website](https://canprepp.ca/) >
Events page



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27224?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27224