#  McGill University - Plastic Surgery - Montreal

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Regular Stream for All  

##  Last approved on December 12, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Domenick (Dino) Zammit  

Address c/o Plastic Surgery Residency Program Office  
Royal Victoria Hospital  
1001 Boul Decarie, Room D02.7007  
Montreal, Quebec, H4A 3J1  

Work  514-934-1934 Ext.35194

Cell

Websites of Interest [ web site ](http://www.med.mcgill.ca/postgrad/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Kristy Moraitis

Title: Program Administrator

Email: plasticresidency.med@mcgill.ca

Phone: 514-934-1934

  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

Applications can be submitted in English or French. The academic curriculum at
McGill is given in English, thus a working knowledge of English is a
requirement.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP must be submitted with each application.  
EITHER:

  * A copy of Canadian Birth Certificate or a copy of Certificate of Canadian Citizenship

OR

  * A copy of Permanent Resident Card (copy of both sides of the card) OR a copy of an IMM 5292, IMM 1000, IMM 5688;   
NB: the Permanent Resident card can be expired.

OR

  * A copy of Citizenship Card (copy of both sides of the card)

P.S: the passport is not an acceptable proof of citizenship.

Each year, all candidates applying in a CaRMS match must provide proof of
valid current citizenship or permanent resident status. As of the 2021 R-1
match cycle, CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate
the citizenship/legal status verification, which is usually completed by
Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) offices.

if an applicant has had their citizenship/legal status documentation verified
by any of the following organizations for the current R-1 match, the applicant
will not be required to assign a proof of citizenship/PR document (as pictured
in the screenshot below).

  * Medical Council of Canada ([MCC](https://mcc.ca/))
  * British Columbia's Clinical Assessment Program ([BC-CAP](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/clinical-assessment/))
  * Bureau de cooperation interuniversitaire ([BCI](https://www.bci-qc.ca/en/))
  * Alberta International Medical Graduate Program ([AIMG](https://www.aimg.ca/))

For further information, please check the following link on CaRMS:
[https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-
citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-)

Examinations

Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the MCCQE Part I exam, please include the statement of
results and supplemental information report in your application.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the NAC exam, please include the statement of results and
supplemental information report in your application. The MCCQE Part II or
Certificate of Registration of the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada
(LMCC) is accepted in place of the NAC Examination.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. These should be from attending
surgeons or faculty who have worked with the applicant during medical school
training or through research projects.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Used for memory aid

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

A personal letter is required. It should contain background experience,
participation in student affairs and extra curricular interests. Max: 1000
words.

Custom Résumé / CV

Additional required IMG documents

Lettre de reconnaissance de l'équivalence du diplôme MD

Please provide the results of the exams that permitted you to have your
medical degree recognized and approved by the CMQ.

Graduates with the diploma of doctor of osteopathy awarded by a school of
osteopathic medicine situated in the United States providing that the school
is accredited by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the
American Osteopathic Association do not have to obtain the recognition of the
equivalence of the medical diploma by the CMQ. These graduates do not require
the MCCQE Part I, the National Assessment Collaboration (NAC), or the
Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada (LMCC) in order to apply.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All applicant files are reviewed by members of our selection committee. The
selection committee is composed of the site directors as well as a minimum of
two residents (a junior and a senior resident). The ranking is based on the
applicants positive display of CANMED roles as evaluated by their academic
file, research, extra-curricular activities etc. as well as their reference
letters and quality of their letter of intent.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 30, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interview date is January 30th, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Each file is reviewed individually.
Applicants put on the short list will be contacted by our office to schedule
an interview. Each candidate is interviewed by faculty members and residents
(minimum one junior and senior) of the McGill Plastic Surgery Program
Selection Committee. Each interview lasts approximately 10-15 minutes, for a
total of 2-3 interview 'virtual' rooms.  Students should allow a total of 30
to 45 minutes for interview times.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

-The broad experiences of each candidate, academic performance, involvement in extra-curricular activities and research are ranked. 



## Program goals

Our plastic surgery program is designed to enable our residents to become
skilled plastic surgeons that deliver high-quality, evidence-based care to
their patients. Our residents will demonstrate exceptional interpersonal
skills, clinical skills, research skills and academic excellence.

Our 5-year program consists of two years of core (Surgical Foundations)
surgery training followed by 3 dedicated years of plastic surgery training.
Successful completion of training and board exams will lead to certification
by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada as well as
eligibility to sit for the American Board (CARMS pathway).

Residents are highly encouraged to pursue an academic career and can take an
additional year to complete a Master's Degree in Experimental Surgery.

## Selection process goals

Identify applicants with a strong interest for plastic surgery, demonstrated
through research, performance on clinical rotations and electives and/or
extra-curricular activities. Candidates who aspire to pursue an academic
career in plastic surgery are particularly encouraged in this program.

Identify applicants who have shown the ability to interact appropriately with
patients and colleagues and have strong collaboration and teamwork skills.

 Identify candidates with attributes highlighted in the Royal College CanMEDs
roles.



Identify candidates who have demonstrated the ability and enthusiasm to learn
and are able to adapt to the various demands of plastic surgery residency
training.

## File review process

Review team composition : The McGill Plastic Surgery Selection Committee is
composed of the members of the RPC committee. All Site Directors, the Research
Director, the Program Director, an a minimum of two residents (junior and
senior) are included on the interview panel.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
On average 35 applications per year

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  
May have exceptions

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  For evaluation of content ( research, publications, presentations, extra-curricular activities) and overall presentation   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Electives in surgical rotations; ICU; Anesthesia   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteer work (medical and non-medical); Mentorship; Committees   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Holding office in student government, club or organization.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstrated excellent interpersonal skills; strong clinical skills   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in discipline and program; personal goals and objectives   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interactions with colleagues and patients; level of performance on a clinical rotation.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Participation in a basic or clinical research project; interest in future research projects   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We encourage applicants to explore the breadth of the surgical field with
their electives, to better understand surgery --in particular plastic surgery.
Electives is fields related to surgery such as anesthesia, ICU, etc can be
very beneficial to appplicants in surgical fields.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high quality patient care through working in a team environment.   
Collegiality |  Behavior, attitude, ability to work well with others.   
Communication skills |  Ability to write and speak in English; a working knowledge of French is highly encouraged   
Health advocacy |  Ability to educate patients on issues that pertain to disease prevention (smoking cessation; maintenance of weight loss, helmet wear, etc)   
Interest in the discipline |  Basic knowledge of plastic surgery related anatomy and pathology; patient centered approach   
Interest in the program |  Electives; participation in research projects; interest for living in Montreal   
Leadership skills |  Research initiatives, volunteer work; extra-curriculars   
Professionalism |  Correspondence with staff, residents and plastic surgery attendings and allied health professionals. Ability to show problem-solving skills in difficult inter-personal interactions.   
Scholarly activities |  Ability to describe their participation and the underlying themes of their research projects; research presentations etc.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**The McGill Plastic Surgery Residency Program Highlights:**

-Faculty trained in a broad range of plastic surgery sub-specialities (Craniofacial, Pediatrics, Hand, Breast, Microsurgery)

-Numerous research opportunities with support from faculty; research network

-Microsurgery dry lab (in addition to a microsurgery rotation)

-Participation of residents in the provincial replant program

-Well developed curriculum with access to cadaver lab 

-Energetic, dedicated faculty members

-Wellness/CANMEDs incorporated into the curriculum





* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Program Curriculum



The McGill Plastic Surgery Program provides complete training across all
general and subspecialty areas of Plastic Surgery.  Our 5-year program
consists of two years of Surgical Foundations Surgery training followed by 3
dedicated years of plastic surgery training. Our program transitioned to the
Royal College Competency by Design curriculum in July 2020.  Successful
completion of training and board exams will lead to certification by the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada as well as eligibility to sit for
the American Board of Plastic Surgery exams (CARMS pathway).

**Transition to Discipline; Foundations**  
  

Two years of core surgical training are required with a broad exposure to
different surgical specialties. A major emphasis is placed on rotations
through General Surgery, the Surgical Intensive Care Unit, and related
specialties such as Orthopedics, Emergency, Otolaryngology and Neurosurgery.

Number of Months (or 4-week blocks)

  
Rotations

PGY1

First Rotation block (July) = Bootcamp (Surgical Foundations & Plastic
Surgery; Transition to Discipline)

Emergency Medicine - 1 block

General Surgery - 2 blocks

Neurosurgery - 1 block

Pediatric Surgery - 1 block

Plastic Surgery - 5 blocks

SICU - 2 blocks

Vascular Surgery - 1 block



PGY2

Anesthesiology - 1 block

General Surgery - 1 block

Microsurgery Lab - 1 block

Oral Maxillofacial Surgery (OMFS) - 1 block

Orthopedic Surgery - 2 blocks

Otolaryngology (Head and Neck) - 1 block

Plastic Surgery -7 blocks



**Core; Transition to Practice (PGY3-5)**  
  

The Residency Program Committee outlines the training objectives for the three
years of formal plastic surgery training (PGY-3,4,5).  The teaching hospitals
are the Montreal General Hospital, the Royal Victoria Hospital, the Montreal
Children's Hospital, Montreal Shriners Hospital, the Jewish General Hospital,
and St-Mary's hospital. Broad operative exposure to plastic surgery
subspecialty areas including oncologic reconstruction, burns, trauma, hand,
pediatric/craniofacial and cleft surgery is encountered.  The Montreal General
Hospital is a level one trauma center (hand, craniofacial, lower extremity).
The Royal Victoria and Montreal Children's Hospitals at the glen site combine
cutting edge tertiary/quaternary care and an advanced technical platform aimed
at providing multidisciplinary care for patients with complex health issues.
Aside from the core teaching hospitals listed above, residents rotate through
community hospital sites (St. Mary's Hospital, Lasalle Hospital and Lachine
Hospital -designated McGill Plastic Surgery teaching sites) to provide a broad
exposure to out-patient plastic surgery procedures.  Finally, the residents
are exposed to aesthetic surgery at assigned private plastic surgery out-
patient facilities staffed by McGill Division of Plastic and Reconstructive
surgery attending faculty.  

Aside from clinical exposure and teaching, a weekly academic half-day (AHD) is
a scheduled part of the curriculum.  The AHD is designed to cover the spectrum
of topics pertinent to trainees in plastic surgery and includes various
teaching formats such as oral and written examination, didactic lectures, case
presentation, morbidity and mortality rounds, journal club, and various
surgical technique simulation sessions (cadaver and dry labs). A microsugery
dry lab is also present for residents to use at all times at the Montreal
General Hospital.

The McGill Program integrates a structured list of reading material,
tutorials, and seminars into the curriculum to comprehensively cover the
following:

CANMEDS/Wellness curriculum

Congenital defects of the head and neck including clefts of the lip and
palate, and craniofacial surgery.

Neoplasms of the nead and neck including reconstruction of ablative defects.

Craniomaxillofacial trauma.

Aesthetic surgery.

Breast Reconstruction.

Surgery of the hand/upper extremities.

Burn management, acute and reconstructive.

Microsurgical techniques including free tissue transfer.

Surgery of benign and malignant lesions of the skin and soft tissues and
reconstruction techniques.

Pediatric plastic surgery.

The curriculum includes objectives for each rotation. At McGill, we use both
the Royal College (Objectives of Training and Specialty Training Requirements
in Plastic Surgery) and also those prepared by the American Board of Plastic
Surgery. The Plastic Surgery Program at McGill is directed toward the
fulfillment of the requirements for specialty certification by the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons, Canada, and the College of Physicians of
Quebec.

  
Rotations are organized by the Plastic Surgery Program Committee in
collaboration with the Plastic Surgery Program Director:



PGY3 (1st Year Plastic  Surgery)

Burn Unit - 2 blocks

Oculoplasty - 1 block

Plastic Surgery -10 blocks



PGY4 (2nd Year Plastic Surgery)

Aesthetic Surgery - 1 block

Plastic Surgery - 12 blocks (includes 2 elective block)



PGY5 (3rd Year Plastic Surgery)

Aesthetic Surgery - 2 blocks

Plastic Surgery - 11 blocks (includes consolidation block)

Research  
  

Opportunities for clinical research exist throughout the clinical residency.

Our Division of Plastic Surgery is active in numerous research arenas and
encourages all residents to take time off during training to participate in a
research project towards either a Master's degree or PhD.  Salary funding for
research is available on a competitive basis via the Surgeon Scientist
Program.  Our Division encourages collaborations with other basic science
researchers and current areas of research include wound healing and modulation
of scarring, craniofacial bone constructs and distraction, surgical simulation
and education, amongst others.  All residents are encouraged to participate in
clinical research projects and in the presentation of scientific material at
local and national meetings.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

The teaching hospitals are the Montreal General Hospital, The Royal Victoria
Hospital, the Montreal Children's Hospital, the Shriners Hospital for
Children, the Jewish General Hospital and St-Mary's Hospital.

Residents also rotate through community Hospital sites - Lasalle Hospital,
Lachine Hospital, Lakeshore Hospital - designated McGill Plastic Surgery
Teaching sites.

Residents are exposed to aesthetic surgery at assigned private plastic surgery
out-patient facilities staffed by McGill Division of Plastic and
Reconstructive Surgery attending staff.

* * *

# Additional Information

Although we encourage all interested candidates to apply, it should be noted
that candidates interested in an academic career, those with research
interests (including a desire to dedicate time to a research degree) and those
that have completed a clinical elective at McGill will be favoured by the
Selection Committee.



**Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada: Applying competency-
based practices to residency education**

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/competence-design-e), aims to enhance
patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving
patient needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education
process.

CBD will use [time as a
framework](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e)
rather than the basis for progression. It is not anticipated that the duration
of training will change for the majority of trainees. Residency programs will
be broken down into
[stages](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/documents/cbd/cbd-competence-
continuum-diagram-legal-e.pdf), and each stage will have a series of
milestones based on required competencies. These milestones will create more
targeted learning outcomes and involve more frequent, formative assessments
within the clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving
feedback on the skills they need.

The Royal College anticipates that all specialty and subspecialty programs in
Canada will adopt CBD in gradual phases. All disciplines have been divided
into seven cohort groups, each of which will adopt CBD at different times.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and
traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification. Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs
will include the completion of a Royal College examination; however, residents
in CBD programs will also be assessed against program milestones throughout
their training. Within a CBD program, all milestones (documented within an
electronic portfolio) and the Royal College examination must be successfully
completed to achieve certification.

With the transition of the Surgical Foundations Program to Competence by
Design (CBD) in July 2018, prior to that of the Plastic Surgery Program which
has yet to implement CBD, all residents who match to the McGill Plastic
Surgery Program will start training in CBD while in Surgical Foundations.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).





* * *

# FAQ



McGill University proudly welcomes an international cohort of residents into
its Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) each year. Residents gain valuable
experience serving a diverse, multicultural community in French and English.
In Quebec, residents are legally required to care for patients in French and
in English. Therefore, PGME provides residents with French language
acquisition tools and resources to help ensure each can care for Francophone
patients, as well as fully benefit from their training experience.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27173?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27173