#  Queen’s University - Family Medicine - Kingston - Thousand Islands  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream including MOTP/MMTP for CMG  

##  Last approved on February 19, 2025

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 37

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Kim Curtin  

Address Family Medicine  
Queen's University Dept. of Family Medicine  
Haynes Hall  
115 Clarence Street, Suite 300 Kingston, Ontario K7L 3N6 , Ontario  

Work  613-533-2240

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Queen's University Department of Family Medicine
](https://familymedicine.queensu.ca/academics)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Kelly Howse

Title: Kingston-1000 Islands Site Director

Email: kelly.howse@queensu.ca

  

Name: Mary Mejia

Title: Program and Events Coordinator

Email: DFM-carms@queensu.ca

Phone: 613-533-6000 ext 78038

  

* * *

# Important Information

Your application to the Queen's Family Medicine Residency Program will be
centrally processed for all four training sites: Kingston-1000 Islands,
Belleville-Quinte, Peterborough-Kawartha, and Queen's-Bowmanville-Oshawa-
Lakeridge. This process means that you will only have one interview, with
results communicated to each site you have applied to. You must make a
separate application to each site you are interested in. Please _include all
required_  documentation in each application and submit the same documentation
to each site. You will have the opportunity to individually rank each site you
are interested in.

Family Medicine at Queen's is a fully accredited program with strong oversight
and communication across all four sites. Each site has a Site Director,
Curriculum Lead, Assessment Lead, Research and Informatics Lead, Faculty
Development Lead and a Program Coordinator to ensure there is strong
collaboration and communication across the sites.

**Note to Couples:**

You are welcome to indicate if you are applying to us as a "couple match". We
will make every attempt to schedule you and your partner for clinical
rotations/experiences that will allow you to have time together.

**EDIIA Institutional Statement:**

The goal of resident selection is to identify trainees likely to succeed both
in training and, once out in practice, in meeting the health care needs of
patients and Canadian society.  We know that having a physician workforce that
reflects the demographics of the patients that they serve improves health care
outcomes.  There are many populations within Canada under-represented in
medicine (UIM) with a paucity of health care practitioners who are Black,
Indigenous, Persons of Colour, 2SLGBTQ+, from lower socioeconomic backgrounds
and/or with disabilities, and other under-represented in medicine (UIM)
groups. Diversity within training programs has also been shown to improve
training environments.  Queen’s University PGME is strongly committed to
diversity and inclusion within its community for these reasons as well as
being part of the solution to address historic and contemporary inequities.

**Note to First Nation, Inuit and/or Métis  applicants:**

At the present time, CaRMS does not have a self-identification process for
First Nation, Inuit and/or Métis applicants. The Queen's Department of Family
Medicine is committed to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission’s Calls to
Action on Health. For this reason, we offer any First Nation, Inuit and/or
Métis applicants to our residency program the opportunity to self-identify in
their personal letter during the application process. We also invite First
Nation, Inuit and/or Métis applicants offered interviews to self-identify when
selecting interview dates. This information helps us identify ways in which
the residency program can connect First Nation, Inuit and/or Métis applicants
to specific resources and supports.

**Equity and diversity**

We welcome diversity among our trainees and seek to foster an environment that
is welcoming to all, regardless of gender identity, race, religion, or sexual
orientation.

We are committed to advancing equitable and inclusive practices.  Please refer
to the [PGME website](https://meds.queensu.ca/academics/postgraduate/faculty-
staff/applicant-selection) for additional information / resources including
[QHS EDIIA Initiatives](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi) and [EDIIA
statements](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi/accessibility-
statements) (Indigenous Land Acknowledgement, Anti-Discrimination Statement,
Inclusion Statement, and Statement on Social Accountability)

**FMProC Details:**

All applicants (CMG and IMGs) to ALL Canadian Family Medicine Programs, in the
1st and 2nd rounds of the CaRMS cycle, are required to sit an online
Situational Judgement Test (SJT), called “FMProC” (Family Medicine
Professional Choices).

Registration window for first round:

  * Registration opens September 11th at 12 noon ET and closes on November 7th at 10AM ET. If you register before October 23rd, 2024, you will receive the test link on or before October 28th, which can be accessed once the test window opens. If you register after October 23rd, you will receive the test link within two business days.
  * Applicants should register early and take the test early during the dates posted.
  * First Round testing window is open from October 28, 2024, 8AM ET to November 11, 2024, 10AM ET.

**Requests to register or to sit the test outside of the posted deadlines
_will not be considered_. All deadlines are final. It is your responsibility
to review the deadlines carefully.**

To register and ﬁnd out more about the test please go to
[fmproc.com](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.fmproc.com%2F&data=05%7C02%7Ckim.wallace%40queensu.ca%7C1c1691b7f7264e0b6ebc08dcd7115566%7Cd61ecb3b38b142d582c4efb2838b925c%7C1%7C0%7C638621716649322963%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=NO06Y1RNsuzKpyL2CWb%2FYwK2AluDYneWEdBPsMQzmn4%3D&reserved=0).
All test related updates will be posted on the website.

Your FMProC score will be submitted to CaRMS and automatically uploaded into
your individual applicant account. You will receive an email notification from
CaRMS when the FMProC score has been uploaded into your account. Your FMProC
score will be automatically assigned to family medicine programs that you
apply to through CaRMs.

** **

** **

** **

** **

**COVID-19 vaccination requirements:**

Please refer to the 'Restrictions' section of the [Ontario eligibility
criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/) for messaging regarding COVID-19 vaccination requirements.

**Gaps in Training, Remediation, or Professionalism issues**

Please address any gaps in training, remediation, or professionalism issues in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph at the end of your personal
letter titled Transcript Addendum. This will not count towards your maximum
word count.



**Note to MOTP/MMTP Applicants:**  

If you are an MOTP/MMTP candidate, please apply to both the MOTP/MMTP stream
AND to the KTI site.  When you rank, please rank the MOTP/MMTP stream above
the KTI stream to ensure that these reserved spots fill first.  Thanks!!

* * *

# Return of Service

If you have a ROS agreement in another province please ensure you aware of the
commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

**FMProC Information**  

All applicants (CMG and IMGs) to our Family Medicine Program, in the 1st
**and**  2nd rounds of the CaRMS cycle, are required to sit a new online
Situational Judgement Test (SJT), called “FM-ProC” (Family Medicine
Professional Choices).

For the 2025 residency selection cycle ALL FM residency programs in Canada
require applicants to sit FMProC for those applying in both rounds of CaRMS.
To support this we provide the test with the following registration and test
window dates:  
  
**1st round  
Registration:  
**Opens 11th September @ noon ET.  
**Closes 7th November @ 10 AM ET.**  
We strongly advise you not to leave registration till the last minute.  
  
**Test Window:**  
Opens 28th October @ 8 AM ET.  
**Closes 11th November @ 10 AM ET.  
  
**ALL 18 FM Residency Programs require the FMProC for both rounds of the
upcoming CaRMS cycle, but you only need to register, pay for, and sit the
test, once.

To register and ﬁnd out more about the test please go to
[fmproc.com](fmproc.com). All test related updates will be posted on the
website.

**  
**THESE DEADLINES ARE FINAL AND NO REQUEST FOR LATE REGISTRATION OR LATE
SITTING OF THE TEST WILL BE CONSIDERED****





Please note that due to the volume of applications our program receives we are
not able to provide individual feedback to applicants who are not successful
in the match.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Examinations

Required

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Reference letters using the Family Medicine Structured Reference Letter
submitted through CaRMS will be the only form of reference letters accepted.

Three (3) references are required, at least one of which should be from a
Canadian Family Physician.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

The personal letter is a crucial part of your CaRMS application. Your letter
should be approximately 500 words and should focus on you as an individual,
and your interest in Family Medicine. Please read the description of our
program and our goals on our
[website](https://familymedicine.queensu.ca/academics). In your personal
letter, indicate why you feel that Queen's Family Medicine Program would be a
good match for you. We are particularly interested in your life experiences
and goals that you feel make you an excellent candidate for our program.
Please include your personal contact information in your letter (e.g. address,
email, phone etc.).

Please address any gaps in training, remediation, or professionalism issues in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph at the beginning of your personal
letter titled Transcript Addendum. This will not count towards your maximum
word count.

Custom Résumé / CV

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

**Proof of Medical Diploma (MD)**

If your Medical Diploma (MD) is in a language other than the program language
of English or French, you are required to have the document translated.
Students applying in the last year of medical school will need to submit their
most recent marks/transcripts, and will need to provide proof of their MD to
CPSO prior to the start of residency training.

Optional - will be reviewed

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Photograph will be used for memory aid/recall purposes only.

Name Change

If any of your documents bear a name different from the one you are currently
using, please provide official proof of your change of name.

Abstract/Publications

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Your application will be reviewed in December 2024. You will be notified by
email if you have been selected for an interview. This email will contain
information about how to schedule your interview.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 28, 2025
  * January 30, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interview Dates: Tuesday, January 21, 2025,
Thursday, January 23, 2025, Tuesday, January 28, 2025 and Thursday, January
30, 2025  Please note: All interviews will be in a virtual format this year.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: We believe strongly in the interview
process. The interview is as much for you to learn about us as it is for us to
learn about you. We will be hosting all interviews over Zoom. If needed,
please let us know how we can best accommodate you. We will host an
information session with our Program Director, Site Directors, Enhanced Skills
Program Director, and current residents at the beginning of the interview
period. This session provides an overview of our program, and information
about our amazing learning experiences, teaching sites and learning resources.
There will be ample opportunity to have your questions answered. There is no
examination component to the interview. We look forward to meeting you
virtually!  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We seek mature, compassionate, enthusiastic individuals with a broad range of
life experiences who are committed to practicing the breadth of Family
Medicine and who will be actively engaged in their learning and with the
program.

## Program goals

In keeping with our motto "Train at Queen's. Work Anywhere", Queen's trains
highly competent generalist family physicians who are equipped to work
anywhere in Canada and provide skilled medical care to their communities.
While adhering to the College of Family Physicians of Canada's competency-
based "Triple C" Curriculum (Comprehensive learning, Continuity of patient
care, curriculum and supervision, and Family Medicine centered education) and
leveraging community specific resources, each of our training sites fully
equips future family medicine physicians to be leaders, scholars, and
clinicians who will serve and lead in the rapidly changing Canadian healthcare
environment.

## Selection process goals

Our selection process seeks to identify and recruit future physicians who have
demonstrated alignment with our program goals. We are interested in applicants
who clearly excel in all CanMEDS roles with particular attention to a strong
academic record, communication skills, and collaboration skills. We also seek
to select those applicants who will be engaged in the ongoing improvement of
our program.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our file review team consists of Queen's faculty
members.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 601 +  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Research, awards, electives, employment, and extracurriculars   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We look for understanding and interest in family medicine   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  FMProC score   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Well-balanced applicants who have demonstrated interests outside of medicine   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Recent leadership successes are an asset   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic performance, endorsements of interpersonal and professional qualities   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  An interest in Family Medicine and Queen's   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Well-rounded applicants skilled in all CanMEDS roles and interested in Family Medicine   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research experience and publications are an asset but not a requirement   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  High scholarly performance. Absences from training must be noted and clearly explained your personal letter   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives
and realize the opportunities to do these are limited.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We are looking for evidence of interest and understanding of Family Medicine.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Communication style, review of inter-professional collaborative experiences   
Collegiality |  Communication style and demeanour   
Communication skills |  Clear and concise style   
Health advocacy |  Demonstration of advocacy is an asset   
Interest in the discipline |  Clear interest in primary care   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest in the Queen's Family Medicine Program   
Leadership skills |  Any aspect of the LEADS framework may be explored during the interview   
Professionalism |  Communication, demeanour, discussion and demonstration of professional conduct   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Queen’s University Family Medicine is a highly regarded longstanding program
(established in 1972). Our two-year program is based on the College of Family
Physicians of Canada competency-based “Triple C” Curriculum (Comprehensive
learning; Continuity of patient care, curriculum, and supervision; and family
medicine-centred education). The program consists of core family medicine
experiences complemented by experiences in other specialties relevant to
family medicine.

In 2010, our program expanded from a single site in Kingston to three
different sites across southeastern Ontario (Kingston-1000 Islands,
Belleville-Quinte, and Peterborough-Kawartha). In 2012, a fourth site
(Queen's-Bowmanville-Oshawa-Lakeridge) was added. Our motto is, “Train at
Queen’s. Work Anywhere.” This is demonstrated by our graduates practising all
over Canada, from remote and rural areas to large inner-city practices. Using
centrally set objectives and assessment standards, all of our four vibrant
sites use their unique local strengths and resources to deliver exceptional
programs. Residents match to and train at one of our four sites, with all the
sites coming together three or four times a year for innovative teaching
sessions and social events. Queen’s Family Medicine has twice earned the
Professional Association of Residents of Ontario (PARO) [Residency Program
Excellence Award](https://myparo.ca/paro-awards/#residency-program-excellence-
award), making us the only program to win this prestigious recognition more
than once. Further, we are the only family medicine program in the province to
receive this award in its 15-year history. In addition to our two wins, we
have been nominated for this award in five other years, from 2012 to 2023
inclusive. We were also honoured to receive the 2014 [Keith
Award](https://www.srpc.ca/past-winners), given to the program with the
greatest number of residents practising in rural communities. Make sure to
explore the four program sites on our
[website](https://familymedicine.queensu.ca/academics)!

Our postgraduate program typically includes boot camp (an introductory block
to residency that residents endorse as setting a great foundation for their
training); a robust global health curriculum; an annual wilderness retreat;
innovative simulation courses (including our highly regarded Nightmares FM
course); international electives; opportunities to teach and engage in
research; and experiences in rural and remote community hospitals (including
Moose Factory, Ontario, and the Falkland Islands). Additionally, we have many
enhanced skills programs.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Kingston-1000 Islands Site Program**

Our Kingston-1000 Islands (KTI) program is based in the city of Kingston,
Ontario. Home to Queen's University, this is the largest of our four site
programs.

The Kingston-1000 Islands site offers a traditional rotation-based residency
training program with many horizontal training components. The KTI site
program is based around core family medicine rotations, complemented by
rotations in internal medicine, obstetrics and gynecology, pediatrics,
psychiatry, emergency medicine, and palliative care. In your first year, your
core family medicine will take place at the [Queen’s Family Health
Team](https://familymedicine.queensu.ca/patients/qfht-patients-kingston)
(QFHT), located in historic downtown Kingston. The QFHT serves an extremely
diverse patient population and serves as a leading example of team-based
primary care. In your second year, you will complete most of your family
medicine rotations at community teaching practices throughout the region as
you develop your independence as a physician.  
  
The remainder of your residency will comprise rotations in other specialties
and experiences related to family medicine. These rotations may be based at
any of Kingston's three hospitals or in other communities in the region. These
hospital departments offer a modified program for our residents, and the
preceptors are enthusiastic about family medicine learners. You will also have
the opportunity to work with students from Queen’s School of Medicine and
other schools within the Faculty of Health Sciences during your placements.

Your first year will kick off with four weeks of boot camp – an experience
designed to introduce you to your home clinic and to give you the opportunity
to participate in innovative simulation courses (e.g. NRP, ALARM, Nightmares
FM, procedures) to build your skills and confidence for your subsequent
rotations. You will then complete your core family medicine blocks in your
home team clinic within the Queen's Family Health Team in downtown Kingston.
Residents spend six blocks of their first year at QFHT in three two-block
rotations, returning to the same clinic, patients, and preceptors. This
maximizes continuity of care and allows residents to gradually increase their
patient care and practice-management responsibilities over time – a definite
strength of our program. Residents return to their home team at QFHT in PGY2
for one block as a senior FM resident, providing many opportunities for
leadership, mentorship and teaching of junior learners

During your core family medicine rotations at QFHT, you will work for one
morning a week at a local long-term care facility [Providence
Manor](https://providencecare.ca/providence-manor/) caring for a group of
patients during the first year. You will also complete half-day or weekly
"horizontal" placements in behavioural medicine, mental health, and other
special-focus clinics (minor procedures, newcomer, sports medicine, substance
use disorders, sleep disorders, etc.). You will have one professional half-day
(PHD) per week that is resident-directed. You may use your PHDs to: see
patients as needed, catch up on charting/inbox, work on your resident
portfolio, educational modules, practice improvement project, research
project, leadership or teaching skills, attend to personal appointments, or
use for wellness activities. Your family medicine experience will also include
a core teaching seminar series, journal club, weekly grand rounds and resident
rounds, and bi-weekly resident-led peer support rounds. You will also complete
various blocks of specialty rotations (e.g. internal medicine, pediatrics,
emergency medicine, etc.) and a four-week elective when you are off-service
from your core family medicine blocks during first year.

During your second year as a KTI resident, you will complete three blocks of
community family medicine in one of our many southeastern Ontario communities
or with one of our Kingston community practices. You will also complete a two
block "rural" family medicine rotation in a smaller or isolated community such
as Picton, Brockville, Bowmanville, Napanee, Moose Factory (an isolated
community in Northern Ontario), other small communities in Eastern Ontario, or
the Falkland Islands (by special arrangement). These placements may be
combined. You will also complete the remainder of your specialty rotations
(subspecialty internal medicine or surgery and others) and eight weeks of
electives during your second year.

Your rotation locations will be based on personal preference and availability.
However, please note that your obstetrics and gynecology rotation and
rural/remote family medicine rotation will be outside of Kingston. There are
also opportunities to spend extended periods of time in the same smaller
community if you desire. Accommodation and travel stipends are provided for
rotations outside of Kingston.

Trainees must be able to provide their own transportation to and from their
training sites as well as to and from work. Possession of a vehicle, while not
required, allows you to make full use of community-based learning
opportunities. Our program will provide funding for exceptional travel
expenses as required.

Our DND Military stream is similar to our regular family medicine residency
stream, with extra relevant exposure to rotations in trauma and military
psychiatry.

Our PHPM stream is similar to our regular family medicine residency stream,
with extra exposure to public health and infectious diseases, as well as
weekly public health academic half days.

**Teaching Opportunities**

As a KTI resident, you will work clinically with junior residents, medical
students, and other interdisciplinary learners. There are additional
opportunities to teach pre-clerkship students at their formal clinical skills
sessions, at family medicine resident teaching nights, as well as join a
mentorship program for first year medical students. You may also present
rounds, lead journal clubs, and assist in training new residents and
international medical graduates as they transition into the residency program.

**What makes the Kingston-1000 Islands site special?**

You will be working alongside resident colleagues from across Canada and
around the world. Many of our graduates have become leaders in family medicine
across Canada.

While working in Kingston, you will be serving a culturally and socio-
economically-diverse population. Through horizontal clinics and other
rotations, you will work with and advocate for marginalized and vulnerable
populations in our community.

While completing your community rotations, you will have access to one-on-one
teaching and increasing responsibility under your preceptor's guidance. You
will also interact regularly with specialist colleagues (both residents and
faculty members) and develop close relationships. Many of your specialist
preceptors will also be family physicians who have completed additional
training (e.g. hospitalist or emergency medicine rotations).

At the KTI site, you have access to facilities at the Queen’s School of
Medicine, including the clinical education centre and our state-of-the-art
simulation labs. You also have full access to the university libraries and
other campus resources.

Residents interested in research will be supported by our Centre for Studies
in Primary Care, a multi-million-dollar research centre.

Queen’s Department of Family Medicine has a long history in providing its
family medicine residents with a strong foundation in caring for adults with
intellectual and developmental disabilities. Family physicians have a special
responsibility for improving the health care of people with inequities in
access, and we want our graduates to feel confident and competent in taking on
the medical care of patients with IDD.

The IDD Program for PGY1 residents includes didactic teaching, as well as
opportunities for family medicine residents to participate in the clinical
Health Check Program. This program focuses not only on educating residents
about providing primary care to IDD patients, but also on fostering an
understanding among residents about the ethical and the medical considerations
specific to IDD patients.

* * *

# Training Sites

Kingston is a thriving city rich in beauty, heritage, and culture that has
been welcoming newcomers since it was first founded in 1673. The city is
located on the shores of Lake Ontario and is the gateway to the 1000 Islands,
St. Lawrence River, and Rideau Canal. Our location is also ideal, with
Toronto, Ottawa, Montreal, and New York State all only a few hours' drive
away. Consistently ranked as one of the best Canadian cities in which to live,
Kingston is the ideal place to start your career. Kingston is a small but
sophisticated urban community, and you will quickly start thinking of the city
as "home."

Kingston today is a major centre for commerce, education, and health services,
and is home to an incredibly diverse and supportive medical community. More
than 1,000 medical students, residents, and clinical fellows are enrolled in
programs at Queen's University, and 8.2 per cent of the city's population is
made up of health-care professionals, one of the highest percentages in the
country.

The city offers a wide variety of restaurants, shops, festivals, and
activities. From world-class sailing at Portsmouth Olympic Harbour to skating
in the city’s Market Square and attending gallery openings, there's always
something to do year-round. For a complete list of attractions and events,
refer to the Visit Kingston [website](https://www.visitkingston.ca/).

Kingston is close to a remarkable selection of national and provincial parks,
conservation areas, and historic sites. The region offers residents easy
access to outstanding camping, canoeing, hiking, and swimming, all within a
short distance from the city.

Kingston's economy is strong, and many local businesses are seeking skilled
employees. Kingston Economic Development Corporation is available to provide
information and assistance to physicians’ partners who might be looking for
work. St. Lawrence College and Queen's University also offer a wide variety of
higher learning and professional development opportunities. In addition, with
the launch of [https://livework.kingstoncanada.com/work-in-
kingston/](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Flivework.kingstoncanada.com%2Fwork-
in-
kingston%2F&data=05%7C01%7Cdj6%40queensu.ca%7C4242f76d3cad45d8dbba08da9be9c0f5%7Cd61ecb3b38b142d582c4efb2838b925c%7C1%7C0%7C637993725500593110%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=rLHtr4R3%2BQqBfIBQ98l9aaTLQQhwndz4GwaebZolsHM%3D&reserved=0
"Original URL:

https://livework.kingstoncanada.com/work-in-kingston/

Click to follow link."), job seekers have a centralized tool to view and apply
for job postings.  

If you have school-age children, you will have no difficulty finding a great
school in Kingston and the surrounding area. Schools for all ages abound, and
there are many excellent public, Catholic, and private schools within walking
distance of the Queen's campus.

We hope you will take time to explore the many advantages of life in Kingston,
and consider making this city home for the duration of your residency
training.

Trainees must be able to provide their own transportation to and from their
training sites as well as to and from work. Possession of a vehicle, while not
required, allows you to make full use of community-based learning
opportunities. Our program will provide funding for exceptional travel
expenses as required.

For more information on our KTI program, please visit our
[website](https://familymedicine.queensu.ca/academics/program-sites/kingston-
and-1000-islands). Please do not hesitate to [contact us](mailto:DFM-
carms@queensu.ca) if you have any additional questions about our site.

* * *

# Additional Information

Comprehensive learning means we will guide you as you become proficient in the
full scope of family medicine: office and community-based care, inpatient
care, emergency medicine, chronic care, obstetrics, and the psychosocial
aspects of medicine that affect all age groups. With the help of your academic
advisor, your learning needs are identified and adjusted three times a year
over the course of your training.

Continuity of patient care means we prioritize giving you opportunities to
follow patients in your family medicine clinics, hospitals, and long-term care
facilities. Continuity of supervision means you will have a designated primary
preceptor during each core family medicine placement and you will have one
academic advisor assigned for the duration of your residency. Continuity of
curriculum means each of your experiences will build upon the others as you
develop into a fully proficient and independent family physician. You will
also receive ACLS, ALARM, and NRP training.

During your first year, you will participate in our ‘Nightmares FM’ course,
which is unique to Queen’s and provides residents with a high level of code
and pre-code training. The course helps prepare you for your worst nightmares
while on call. You could be asked to resuscitate a simulated patient in a mock
ER, ward, or office setting. At the start of your first year you will
participate in two full days of Nightmares boot camp, followed by three half-
day follow-up sessions throughout the year to consolidate your skills.

Family medicine-centred education means you are always learning through the
lens of family medicine. You will work in many different clinical settings
with other family physicians and specialist colleagues who are enthusiastic
about family medicine learners.

Over your two years, you will complete a resident project. Options for the
project include: critical review, advocacy project, research project, ethics
project, and IT project — this culminating in either a poster or oral
presentation at our annual Primary Care Research Day. During your first year,
you will also complete a quality-improvement project within your family
medicine practice.

While each training site develops its own individual schedule, all our staff
work diligently to ensure your needs as a learner and as an individual are
met. As a resident, you will receive vacation time each year and educational
leave to attend conferences. Parental leave can easily be arranged, and if you
and your partner are both training at the same site, we will strive to ensure
your schedules are complementary. You will receive access to multiple point-
of-care tools as well as all other university resources. You will also be
entitled to a resident allowance that can be used to purchase learning
resources and subscriptions or to attend conferences. You will have a primary
clinical preceptor, an academic advisor, and a faculty advocate who are
available for discussion and assistance and to help guide you in your
competency development.

You will also have the opportunity to complete elective placements during your
residency. We encourage residents to complete electives that complement their
learning or enhance their understanding of an aspect of family medicine.
Residents may also target their electives towards global health, either by
going abroad or by working with a vulnerable population in Canada. You will
work with your academic advisor to determine your personal electives plan.

The Queen’s Department of Family Medicine offers a wide variety of enhanced
skills programs in the following areas: emergency medicine, anesthesia, global
health, women's health, care of the elderly, Indigenous health, enhanced/rural
skills, palliative care, and care of the developmentally disabled. These
programs are based out of our Kingston & 1000 Islands site, however, learners
complete placements in a variety of locations. These enhanced skills programs
are open equally to applications from residents from all sites.

Queen's offers a flexible program in family medicine delivered at four
different sites across South Eastern Ontario (Kingston & 1000 Islands,
Belleville-Quinte, Peterborough-Kawartha, and Queen's-Bowmanville-Oshawa-
Lakeridge). Each site covers the same program objectives but has unique
curricula. Make sure you explore our four program descriptions or [visit our
website](https://familymedicine.queensu.ca/academics). Our postgraduate
program includes a robust global health curriculum, an annual wilderness
retreat, international electives, opportunities to teach and engage in
research, and experiences in rural and remote community hospitals (including
Moose Factory, Ontario).

At Queen's, we respect you as an adult learner. We provide a program with many
diverse opportunities and resources to help you in your development as a
family physician.

Train at Queen's. Work Anywhere!

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26416?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26416