#  University of Manitoba - Cardiac Surgery - Winnipeg

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Tarek Kandeel  

Address Cardiac Surgery  
Room Y-3521 ,St. Boniface Hospitall  
409 Tache' Avenue  
Winnipeg, Manitoba, R2H 2A6  

Work  204 258 1213

Work  204 258-1031

Websites of Interest [ University of Manitoba - Cardiac Surgery Education
](http://umanitoba.ca/faculties/health_sciences/medicine/units/surgery/cardiac/2989.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Andrea Roskevich

Title: Program Administrator

Email: cardiac.surg@umanitoba.ca

Phone: 204-787-4587

  

* * *

# Important Information

The Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation, which is **mandatory** , will
be held on Thursday, June 26, 2025.

**Competency-Based Medical Education**

As of July 2019, residents entering Cardiac Surgery will participate in
competency-based training through the Competence by Design (CBD) educational
initiative of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/portal/page/portal/rc/resources/cbme/resources/videos_webinars),
aims to enhance patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong
learning with evolving patient needs and empowering learners to more fully
engage in their education process.

CBD will use time as a framework rather than the basis for progression. It is
not anticipated that the duration of training will change for the majority of
trainees. Residency programs will be broken down into
[stages](http://www.royalcollege.ca/portal/page/portal/rc/common/documents/resources/cbd_competence_continuum_diagram_legal_e.pdf),
and each stage will have a series of milestones based on required
competencies. These milestones will create more targeted learning outcomes and
involve more frequent, formative assessments within the clinical workplace to
ensure residents are developing and receiving feedback on the skills they
need.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and
traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification. Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs
will include the completion of a Royal College examination; however, residents
in CBD programs will also be assessed against program milestones throughout
their training. Within a CBD program, all milestones and the Royal College
examination must be successfully completed to achieve certification.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

If you have any questions regarding application to the Cardiac Surgery
Postgraduate Training Program at the University of Manitoba, please contact
our Program Administrator at **cardiac.surg@umanitoba.ca  
**

You are required to fulfill ALL of the most current Provincial Criteria for
Canadian Medical Graduates for Manitoba

The criteria can be found at:  <https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Supporting letters from three faculty members are required.

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter is required outlining pertinent personal and academic
history, reasons for choosing the specialty of cardiac surgery and future
career goals.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Abstract/Publications

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 2, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Virtual interviews will take place on
Sunday, February 2, 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Candidates are short listed and then
interviewed by the members of the Residency Program Committee. This consists
of faculty members and residents and will be held virtually.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

  * Superior academic standing.
  * Demonstrated potential in acquiring surgical technical skills.
  * Demonstrated interest in cardiac surgery.

## Program goals

The Cardiac Surgery Resident Training Program at the University of Manitoba
seeks to provide the highest quality care to patients while supporting the
educational, research, health and wellness needs of our residents. The aim of
the program is to provide the best possible environment, technology,
facilities and human resources in order to facilitate comprehensive education
and training of residents, along with medical students and clinical fellows.

## Selection process goals

A successful applicant will demonstrate a mature, dedicated and self-directed
approach to acquiring the knowledge and technical skill set required for
Cardiac Surgery. Effective communication skills and a team-based attitude are
essential to working within an interdisciplinary team of care providers.
Successful applicants will have elective experience in Cardiac Surgery, with
an interest in ongoing research and academics.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is comprised of the Program Director
and faculty/resident members of the Residency Program Committee (RPC).

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Ability to work with teams; Leadership potential; Research experience; Extra-curricular; Interests.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  At least one on-site elective.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  No additional assessment required   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Interests relating to, and also outside of, medicine.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership potential.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Applicant should be in good standing at their respective medical school.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  No specific format is requested here.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  At least 3 letters from faculty/mentors (see Reference Documents section, below).   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Publications, chapters, posters, etc (to assess for interest/potential for research).   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Applicant should be in good standing at their respective medical school.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We prefer applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Capacity for dedicated team-work; Participation in an interdisciplinary team.   
Collegiality |  Reliability; Honesty; Integrity.   
Communication skills |  Effective; Compassionate.   
Health advocacy |  No additional assessment required   
Interest in the discipline |  Interest in Cardiac Surgery; At least 1 formal elective in Cardiac Surgery.   
Interest in the program |  On-site Cardiac Surgery elective is preferred; Knowledge and interest specific to our program.   
Leadership skills |  Potential for leadership.   
Professionalism |  Ethical decision-making; Honesty; Capacity for self-directed learning.   
Scholarly activities |  Academic performance in medical school; Interest/potential for research/scholarly pursuits.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  Any other situation, either witnessed or reported, wherein an
applicant's professionalism and honesty are found to be compromised.  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The University of Manitoba provides residency training in cardiac surgery. A
faculty of eight surgeons perform approximately 1100 adult cardiac operations
per year as well as run a dedicated 15 bed Cardiac Surgical Intensive Care
Unit. All surgery is performed at St. Boniface Hospital. The spectrum of adult
cardiac surgery includes coronary artery bypass grafting, valve repair and
replacement, repair of congenital defects, minimal access surgery, arrhythmia
ablation, thoracic aortic open reconstructions and endovascular stent
grafting, and mechanical circulatory support (ECMO and VAD).  There is a
dedicated Thoracic Aortic Diseases Clinic. Cardiac transplantation and
pediatric cardiac surgery are not performed in the province of Manitoba.
Training in both of these areas is provided at the University of Alberta in
Edmonton through a Royal College approved Inter-University Affiliation
Agreement. The University of Manitoba has an integrated Cardiac Sciences
Program including cardiac surgery, cardiology, cardiac anesthesia and critical
care. Teaching and clinical exposure is done in a multi-disciplinary team
approach and this offers a unique environment for learning.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 6 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

CURRICULUM

This 6-year residency program is designed to fulfill the training requirements
of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada for candidate
examination and certification in cardiac surgery.

PGY-1 & PGY- 6

As per the Royal College CBD Curriculum

RESEARCH

All trainees are strongly encouraged to develop a research interest; this is
primarily accomplished during the academic enrichment year. Residents have the
option of obtaining a degree (MSc or PhD) through the Department of Surgery
and the Faculty of Postgraduate Studies. This involves enrollment in the
Faculty of Postgraduate Studies and the requirement for an extended research
experience and to successfully complete required courses, carry out a research
program and submit a thesis.

Within the Manitoba Cardiac Sciences Program, the University of Manitoba and
the St. Boniface Hospital Cardiovascular Research Institute, there exist many
well-established research programs particularly in the basic cardiac sciences
such as physiology and molecular biology.

All residents are financially supported by the program to attend, outside
Winnipeg, one scientific conference per academic year.



SEMINAR/DIDACTIC SESSIONS

Weekly Cardiac Surgery Rounds consist of a variety of sessions including
morbidity and mortality review, resident presentations, presentations from
faculty in other programs and visiting professors. Journal Club is held in the
evening approximately four to six times per year. Weekly didactic sessions
with one faculty member are held for all residents to cover topics in the
curriculum of cardiac surgery and the CanMEDS intrinsic roles. Faculty and
residents attend weekly complex case rounds at St. Boniface Hospital.



EVALUATION

In-training evaluation reports, reflecting the rotation-specific goals and
objectives and the CanMEDS framework, follow every rotation and are read and
signed by the resident. Practice oral exams are given with progressive
frequency during the last year. Residents' performance and progress are
monitored closely by the Program Director and the Residency Program Committee
with regular feedback to the residents.

Residents are invited to provide written evaluations of the teaching
performance of the individual faculty members in an anonymous manner.

* * *

# Training Sites

The majority of training in the Cardiac Surgery Program takes place at St.
Boniface General Hospital.

* * *

# Additional Information

No additional information

* * *

# FAQ

We do not accept late applications.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26957?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26957