#  Queen’s University - Obstetrics and Gynecology - Kingston  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on February 19, 2025

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. George Gray  

Address Obstetrics & Gynecology  
Kingston General Hospital, Victory 4  
76 Stuart Street  
Kingston , Ontario, K7L 2V7  

Work  613-549-6666, Ext. 2139

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology
](https://obgyn.queensu.ca/academics/residency-program)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: George Gray

Title: Program Director

Email: gg55@queensu.ca

Phone: 613-549-6666 Ext. 2139

  

Name: Julie Wimmer

Title: Postgraduate Program Coordinator

Email: julie.wimmer@queensu.ca

Phone: 613-549-6666 x2139

  

* * *

# Important Information

**EDIIA Institutional Statement:**

The goal of resident selection is to identify trainees likely to succeed both
in training and, once out in practice, in meeting the health care needs of
patients and Canadian society.  We know that having a physician workforce that
reflects the demographics of the patients that they serve improves health care
outcomes.  There are many populations within Canada under-represented in
medicine (UIM) with a paucity of health care practitioners who are Black,
Indigenous, Persons of Colour, 2SLGBTQ+, from lower socioeconomic backgrounds
and/or with disabilities, and other under-represented in medicine (UIM)
groups. Diversity within training programs has also been shown to improve
training environments.  Queen’s University PGME is strongly committed to
diversity and inclusion within its community for these reasons as well as
being part of the solution to address historic and contemporary inequities.

**Equity, Diversity, and Inclusivity in OBGYN**

We welcome diversity among our trainees, and seek to foster an environment
that is welcoming to all, regardless of gender identity, race, religion, or
sexual orientation.  The Queen's Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology is
also committed to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission’s Calls to Action on
Health and the Scarborough Charter's call to foster inclusive excellence. As
part of our initiative to improve Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion in our
program, we will be taking into special consideration those applicants who
choose to self-identify as part of a group that is under-represented in
medicine.  

Under-represented groups are considered to be those who identify as Black,
Indigenous (First Nation, Inuit and/or Métis), as well as those who have come
from a low socio-economic status.  Low socio-economic status includes growing
up in households with involuntary unemployment for parents/guardians,
households with income below the national average, single parent/guardian
households, and households with parents/guardians who did not graduate from
high school.  

Please see our sections on General Information and Review Process for details
on how to self-identify and how we use this information in the selection for
interviews.  Any interested candidate is also welcome to connect with someone
from the [office of EDIIA
Initiatives](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi) at Queen’s Health
Sciences before applying, for additional information. Please note that if you
belong to an under-represented group self-identification is not mandatory and
if you choose not to self-identify this will not disadvantage your
application.  Additional verification may be required.



**Equity and diversity**

We welcome diversity among our trainees and seek to foster an environment that
is welcoming to all, regardless of gender identity, race, religion, or sexual
orientation.

We are committed to advancing equitable and inclusive practices.  Please refer
to the [PGME website](https://meds.queensu.ca/academics/postgraduate/faculty-
staff/applicant-selection) for additional information / resources including
[QHS EDIIA Initiatives](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi) and [EDIIA
statements](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi/accessibility-
statements) (Indigenous Land Acknowledgement, Anti-Discrimination Statement,
Inclusion Statement, and Statement on Social Accountability)

**COVID-19 Vaccination Requirements**

Please refer to the 'Restrictions' section of the [Ontario eligibility
criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/) for messaging regarding COVID-19 vaccination requirements.

**Gaps in Training, Remediation, or Professionalism issues**

Please address any gaps in training, remediation, or professionalism issues in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count.

* * *

# Return of Service

If you have a ROS agreement in another province please ensure you aware of the
commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

**Letters of Reference**

When asking a referee for a reference letter, ask them to support candidate
characteristics with concrete examples demonstrating each quality.  Qualities
we are interested in hearing about are knowledge, communication, compassion,
technical and surgical skills, and clinical reasoning and judgement.

**Personal Letters**

For personal letters, we are interested in your motivation for pursuing a
career in OBGYN, interest in our site, and your personal characteristics
indicating suitability to OBGYN with concrete examples from your experience.
Consider including an explanation or narrative of specific strengths you have
that would be an asset in OBGYN with concrete examples.  Personal letters
should be 500-750 words. If you decide to self-identify as part of a community
that is under-represented in medicine, please include an extra paragraph on
your connectiveness with that community. If you have identified as having low
socio-economic background, you have the option of describing how these
circumstances influenced your path.  Word limit for self-ID paragraph is 300
words (in addition to your 500-750 word letter).  Please be sure to
distinguish this paragraph with its own heading underneath the main letter.
Additional verification may be required. See our review process for details on
how self-ID will be used for interview selection.  

**Other Documents**

Items we neither require nor want:

  * PDFs of publications
  * PDFs of certificates/diplomas/degrees

**Please attach documents as indicated on CaRMS site**

Please note that due to the volume of applications our program receives we are
not able to provide individual feedback to applicants who are not successful
in the match.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

We expect 3 letters of reference: we would like to see one or more reference
letters from a faculty member from Obstetrics & Gynecology, attesting to your
interest in OBGYN.

You should encourage your referee to provide information about attributes such
as professionalism, work ethic, knowledge, communication, team functioning,
surgical proficiency. Any statement would ideally be supported by concrete
examples demonstrating the attribute discussed.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  500

Maximum :  750

  

Your personal letter should be between 500-750 words - be creative! Tell us
why we should pick you, why OB is for you and why us!  

If you decide to self-identify as from a group that is under-represented in
medicine, please include an extra paragraph on your connectiveness with that
community. If you have identified as having low socio-economic background, you
have the option of describing how these circumstances influenced your path.
Word limit for self-ID paragraph is 300 words (in addition to your 500-750
word letter).  Please be sure to distinguish this paragraph with its own
heading underneath the main letter.  See our review process for details on how
self-ID will be used for interview selection.  Additional verification may be
required.





Custom Résumé / CV

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

To highlight research interests, a list of projects and abstracts/publications
can be submitted; whole journal articles are not necessary.

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's)

CEGEP Transcript

Required if candidate attended CEGEP and did not pursue an undergraduate
degree before medical school

Graduate Transcript (Master/PhD Degree)

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

We will be screening all applicants based on the submitted package. Applicants
who are felt to be competitive for admission to the program will be offered an
interview. In addition, as part of our initiative to improve our program
through Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion, we will be taking into special
consideration those applicants who choose to self-identify in their personal
letter as part of a group that is under-represented in medicine.  Those who
choose to self-identify as part of an equity deserving group will have this
section of the personal letter reviewed by a subcommittee and their file will
be given additional consideration when determining interview invitations,
dependent on the number of interview spots available.

We will contact applicants who are selected for an interview. Booking an
interview will be explained at the time of the interview offer.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 29, 2025
  * January 30, 2025
  * January 31, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interview dates: Interviews will be held on
January 29, 30, 31, 2025.  2025 interviews will be virtual.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The interviews will take place using
the online conferencing software Zoom (<https://zoom.us/>) either in the
morning or afternoon. Applicants should anticipate being available to speak
with our interview panel for a half day.  
  
Each half day includes the following activities: interviews, chats with
residents, PD presentation:  
  

  * Each candidate will be interviewed by two separate panels consisting of members of the Postgraduate Committee (2-3 faculty and 1-2 residents for each panel). Each interview will be approximately 15 minutes in length. 
  * While residents are waiting for their interviews, they will be directed to the resident chat room, where they will have the opportunity to talk informally with residents currently in the program.
  * The Program Director will give a presentation in the afternoon for both the morning and afternoon candidates - please be sure to attend.

An interview is required. In the past, we have not ranked applicants whom we
have not interviewed.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We are looking for applicants with varied experiences in medicine, but with a
demonstrable interest in obstetrics and gynaecology, and a record of strong
academic performance. As we are a surgical specialty, we are additionally
seeking candidates with technical skills, which may be demonstrated in your
surgical clerkship evaluations, but also in a variety of other experiences,
including - but not limited to - training in sports, music, fine arts, or
another modality that requires strong hand-eye coordination (please give
details in your personal letter). Furthermore, the nature of the practice and
diseases encountered require highly compassionate candidates; this requirement
may be demonstrated through community outreach activities, responsibility to
family/dependents, and general attitudes toward others as highlighted in your
letters of reference and personal letter.

Queen's obstetrics and gynecology is a close-knit, open-minded community of
residents and obstetricians & gynaecologists; candidates should possess strong
communication and interpersonal skills as well as an interest in Kingston,
contributing to the Queen's medical community, and community at large, as
demonstrated by your work in your own community, workplace, and/or homelife.

As a program with no clinical fellows in the main subspecialties (we have a
fellowship in Contraception Advice, Research and Education), residents at
Queen's have access to immense opportunities for hands-on learning; we are
seeking candidates who are comfortable with maximizing these opportunities
through peer- and staff-led _and_ self-directed learning. Endorsements of
professionalism and work ethic, particularly in the Medical Student
Performance Record (MSPR) and letters of reference are highly valued.

## Program goals

We aim to train graduates who will be:

  * **academically successful,** allowing them to provide exceptional care and respond to the needs of their patients, community, and society;
  * **surgically skilled** , giving them the confidence to provide superior surgical care to their patients and mentorship to future trainees under their care should they choose an academic career;
  * **future leaders,** in their careers, including research, medical education, public health, professional advocacy, and healthcare administration;
  * **compassionate physicians,** towards their patients going through difficult life-altering experiences, and towards their peers and workplace collaborators;
  * **team players** , within their resident peers, and inter-professionally with other services and allied health, laying foundations for lifelong collegial and positive work/learning environments.

## Selection process goals

We believe that success in residency training requires a strong connection and
engagement with your program and colleagues; as such, we look for students
with a demonstrable interest in Queen's OBGYN and Kingston. We look for
candidates who have a passion for learning, are self-motivated, inquisitive
and bring a growth mindset. And of course, outstanding performance during
medical school is essential.

The process will consider:

  * demonstrated academic performance;
  * prior elective experience in OBGYN;
  * research interest and experience;
  * evidence of maturity and empathy, collegiality, professional attitude, strong communication skills, manual dexterity and visual perception skills demonstrated in the candidate's past experiences and supported in the letters of reference;
  * established organization skills and time-management, strong ethics, integrity and accountability.

Any information that strongly suggests that a candidate may not be successful
in our program may be considered.

## File review process

Review team composition :  
Files are divided into 4 sections:  
• Education,  
• CV & Additional Information,  
• Letters of references,  
• Personal letter & scholarly activities.  
Four teams of two independent reviewers review one section each for all
candidates and generate a score based on a predetermined scoring grid. During
the review process, pictures are not available to reviewers. Files in which
candidates self-identified as part of an under-represented group in medicine
will be given special consideration during the review process. Self-
identification is optional.  

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
We generally receive between 100-120 applications.  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  
We typically interview 36-48 candidates.  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Education, work and volunteer history, awards and achievements, research experience.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Elective experience in OBGYN encouraged. For other electives, concisely explain why they were chosen and how they may support an OBGYN career   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Contributions to the community, evidence of leadership development including support of family/dependents, should be highlighted and placed in the context of a candidate's strength.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Assessed in the Personal Letter, Reference letter, extra-curricular experience   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic performance, contributions in medical school, endorsements, professional qualities   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Strong articulation: why OBGYN/Queen's, what personal characteristics show a good fit for OBGYN   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Supported contextual evidence of knowledge, performance, work ethic, interpersonal and professional qualities   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research experience, especially in OBGYN, is valued, including peer-reviewed authorship   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance during medical school and other university degrees   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline. Other electives should have a connection with or
relevance to OBGYN.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We encourage applicants who have done a broad range of electives in
disciplines other than OBGYN to elaborate on reasons underlying their elective
choice, including, if applicable, how a specific elective provides experience
that is pertinent to a career in OBGYN.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  2025 Interviews will be virtual  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence of, and enthusiasm for teamwork and collaboration in clinical setting   
Collegiality |  Communication style, demeanor, direct or indirect discussion of conflict management +/- examples   
Communication skills |  Evidence of excellent verbal and non-verbal communication skills, able to convey thoughts succinctly   
Health advocacy |  Evidence of commitment to advocacy work, including leadership   
Interest in the discipline |  Understanding of the discipline with well-reasoned rationale for pursing this specialty   
Interest in the program |  Knowledge of, reasons for, and personal ties to, program/city assessed in Personal letter   
Leadership skills |  Direct or indirect discussion of leadership and teaching experiences   
Professionalism |  Any indication of weak professional attributes will be considered at any point of the application   
Scholarly activities |  Academic, research, and/or teaching awards/scholarship are valued   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Overall**  

We are a program of close-knit, open-minded residents and faculty, providing a
warm and enjoyable interpersonal and professional experience.

Very accessible faculty, most of whom have offices on the same floor close to
each other - great for networking!

Excellent mentoring and career counselling: early recognition and support of
residents in difficulty; individual attention in all rotations; close,
personal relationship between residents and staff.  Attending staff are very
supportive and committed to resident learning and success.

Excellent faculty-to-trainee ratio (16 residents, 18 staff) and lack of
clinical fellows in MFM, Urogyne, Gyne Onc provides immense opportunity for
hands-on learning.

Strong experience with, and leadership in, Competency-based Medical Education
(CBME): this will be our 9th year which means all our residents are CBME
residents.  Queen’s OBGYN faculty were leaders in CBD development at the Royal
College.

Cohesive, functional, responsive program with an excellent reputation & track
record!



**Clinical**

90% of activities are located at a single site (Kingston General Hospital),
with some outpatient OR and some specialty clinics occurring at Hotel Dieu
Hospital and Lennox & Addington County General Hospital (in Napanee - 40 mins
from downtown Kingston).

Labour & Delivery, NICU, post-op ward and outpatient clinics are all located
on a single floor, making it very efficient to circulate around.

Unique transgender clinic; multi-disciplinary Women's Bleeding Disorder
clinic.

Early surgical exposure.  Early autonomous experience as on-call resident as
there is one resident on-call at night in-hospital (with back up second on-
call): you get to be in the thick of it early, right away in your first year!
But don’t worry, staff is only a door away and very supportive and responsive.

Calls: mole system Monday-Fridays: nights only, no days. On weekends, no
consecutive 24h call!

Strong subspecialty exposure; strong MIS program; robotic surgery available in
gynecology oncology.



**Educational**  

Fantastic simulation opportunities!

Protected academic half day (staff takes all your pagers during these 3
hours!)

Generous support for conferences (contingent on achievement of research
milestones).

Multiple educational rounds (4-5 hours per week, in addition to academic half
day).

Monthly Journal Clubs.

Strong examination preparation: yearly formative OSCE and yearly formal OSCE
run as close as possible to Royal College format; participation in the
National Canadian Examination (formally called APOG) preparatory examination;
once R5, weekly oral exams, plus Departmental support for R5 to attend the
Canadian OBGYN Review Program review course.



**Research**** **

Strong support for independent research project: in house
statistician/methodologist; many faculty with MSc in Clinical Epidemiology.
We have some phenomenal CIHR-funding researchers at Queen’s in MFM, REI, and
MIS, including Women’s Health Clinical Mentorship Grant for projects pairing
our residents to superb mentors.

All residents attend the Queen's University Research Course, supported by the
Department.

Goal to complete two research projects: one with collection of original data,
and an optional quality assurance project. Both can receive generous support
to attend national meetings for dissemination.

Opportunity to complete a Master Degree of one's choice through the Clinical
Investigator Program (CIP).



**Kingston’s Beauty**

Family-friendly city with a great waterfront and bustling tourism; great water
sports and cycling. Plenty of restaurants, cafés, and bars, serving excellent
and diverse food and drink.

Well-established sports, music, and arts scene, including festivals, shows,
and concerts (check out Leon’s Centre Stadium, the Tett Centre and the Isabel
Bader Centre for the Performing Arts, among other great venues).

Access to places of prayer of many creeds: mosque, synagogue, most Christian
denominations (Catholic, Protestants, Orthodox etc).  Furthermore, Queen’s
University has an active indigenous community found in the F[our Directions
Indigenous Student Centre](https://www.queensu.ca/fourdirections/home) as well
as the [Office of Indigenous Initiatives](https://www.queensu.ca/indigenous/).

Short commuting times (most walk or cycle to work and school); relatively low
cost of living; within easy reach of Montreal, Ottawa, and Toronto.

Close proximity to numerous beautiful leisure destinations (Prince Edward
County/Sandbanks Provincial Park - wineries and beaches.  Thousand Islands,
Rideau Waterway – a designated UNESCO world heritage centre!)

Enjoy the great outdoors: Hiking (Rock Dunder), sailing and stand-up paddling
(Lake Ontario), canoeing and kayaking, cross-country skiing and snowshoeing,
and camping in Provincial Parks (Frontenac Provincial Park, Bon Echo
Provincial Park, Charleston Lake Provincial Park among others).

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Within the program, there is strong resident involvement in planning and
organization. Currently, the size of this residency program allows for
individual attention to each resident's needs and enormous opportunity for
individualized mentoring and early surgical skill development.

 The Postgraduate Committee is very responsive to resident input throughout
the year, including during the two annual resident retreats. We constantly
strive to improve our program!

**PGY-1**

**Transition to Discipline** (2 blocks): Residents attend Surgical Foundations
Boot Camp sessions, Labour & Delivery, OBGYN Clinics and Gynecology ORs.

**Foundations of Discipline (FOD)** is a stage covering broad-based
competencies that every trainee must acquire before moving on to more
advanced, discipline-specific competencies and comprises a four block rotation
in **Junior Obstetrics** for which you will be paired with a PGY-4 resident.
The expectation is that by the end of this rotation you will be able to do a
C-section as primary surgeon and do solo calls.

You will have a 1-2 block rotation of **Ambulatory Obstetrics and Gynecology
clinics** and one block each of **Anesthesia, Neonatology, Internal Medicine**
, **Emergency Medicine, General Surgery**  and **Critical Care**. These "off
service" rotations provide broad general experience and provide sufficient
opportunities to complete the Surgical Foundations curriculum, exam and EPAs.

**PGY-2**

**Foundations of Discipline (FOD)** continues in second year with **Junior
Gynecology** (4-5 blocks). For this rotation you will be paired with the Head
Resident (PGY-5). You will work in the operating room, ER triage, wards and
clinics.

**Junior Gynecologic Oncology  **(3 blocks):  For this rotation you will be
paired with the senior gynecologic oncology resident (PGY4). Again you will
work in the OR, in clinics and on the wards.

**Community OBGYN**  (2-3 blocks): This rotation is completed in Brockville, a
small community hospital close to Kingston and affiliated with the Queen's
medical school. You will work with 3 full-time Obstetrician-Gynecologists as
the only resident on service. This provides an excellent opportunity for broad
exposure and early surgical independence.  Accommodations and some travel
reimbursement are provided as well as videoconferencing of weekly Rounds and
Academic Half Day.

**Women's Clinic and Clinics  **(1-2 blocks): This rotation is done locally as
call duties have to be fulfilled at the Kingston General Hospital. The Women's
Clinic is where 1st trimester terminations are conducted. Clinics include
general Gynecology clinics or subspecialty clinics as availability permits.

**Research** (1 block): This block allows residents to get an early start on
their research project.

**PGY-3**

**Core of Discipline (COD)  **is a stage that will focus on developing and
achieving consultant level knowledge and judgement of more advanced,
discipline-specific competencies. During the PGY-3 year, you will gain
exposure to subspecialty practice, followed by starting your Senior rotations
in Obstetrics and Gyn Oncology.

**Maternal Fetal Medicine** (3 blocks)

**Urogynecology** (3 blocks)

**Ultrasound** (1 block)

**Colposcopy** (2 blocks)

**Reproductive Endocrinology & Infertility** (3 blocks)

**Senior OB** (3 blocks): This rotation provides consolidated OB experience at
the senior level. You will also have a teaching and mentoring role, in
addition to a managerial role of the Labour and Delivery unit.

or

**Senior GYN Oncology** (3 blocks): In this rotation you will gain experience
in surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy in the management of gynecologic
oncology patients. You will participate in complicated inpatient surgeries
including robotic, minimally invasive and conventional, as well as ward care.

**PGY-4**

**Core of Discipline** continues through PGY-4 and the beginning of PGY-5,
with continuation towards achievement of the core competencies that make up
the majority of a discipline.

**Senior OB**  (3-5 blocks):  This rotation provides consolidated OB
experience at the senior level. You will also have a teaching and mentoring
role, in addition to a managerial role of the Labour and Delivery unit.

**Community OBGYN**  (3-5 blocks):  This rotation affords broad experience
across the specialty as well as exposure to non-academic clinical practice at
the senior level of training. It occurs in Belleville, with accommodation and
some travel reimbursement provided.

**Senior GYN Oncology** (3-5 blocks):  In this rotation you will gain
experience in surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy in the management of
gynecologic oncology patients. You will participate in complicated inpatient
surgeries including robotic, minimally invasive and conventional, as well as
ward care.

**Electives**  (1-3 blocks):  Electives in PGY-4 allow for fellowship planning
and career exploration.

**PGY-5**

The PGY-5 year will see the resident complete the Core of Discipline, write
the written exam at the end of Core and enter the **Transition to Practice**
stage. In this stage, the senior trainee should demonstrate readiness to make
the transition to autonomous practice. Royal College certification exam (oral)
will be done near the end of Transition to Practice.

**Senior GYN /Head Resident**(4-5 blocks):  This rotation provides
consolidated surgical and clinical gynecologic experience at the senior level.
You will manage the Head Resident Clinic.  You will also have teaching,
mentoring and administrative roles.

**Electives** (4-5 blocks):  Electives in PGY-5 allow for late flexibility, as
well as an opportunity for new or reinforced experience, at a time when
fellowship or practice planning is key. You will also have time to study for
upcoming exams.

**Ambulatory OBGYN Clinics** (4-5 blocks)

___________________________________________________________________________________

**Seminars**

Eight hours are spent in seminars and teaching per week. There is a fully
protected Academic Half-Day weekly that occurs on Thursday mornings.

**Research**

Our Program has a structured approach to resident research with metered
milestones for each year of residency. The overall residency goal is for two
research projects: one required original research project and the second, an
optional quality assurance project. Departmental supervisor/mentor(s) are
available to each resident according to research interests. Departmental
financial support is provided for conferences according to resident research
policy.

CIP: Queen's University has an active Royal College approved Clinician
Investigator Program that gives residents the opportunity to receive research
training and obtain a graduate degree during their residency.  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

Kingston Health Sciences Centre

Brockville General Hospital

Lennox & Addington County General Hospital



* * *

# Additional Information

Please visit our [Departmental website](https://obgyn.queensu.ca/) for more
information about our program, our faculty and our residents.

Also, feel free to follow our [Instagram
account](https://www.instagram.com/queensobgyn/) and [Twitter
account](https://twitter.com/QueensOBGYN?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Eauthor).

Being a ‘friend’ of or following these is not a requirement.

* * *

# FAQ

1\. Do you have a formal mentorship program?

No, but we find mentors very easily at Queen's given the small number of staff
and residents who work very closely together over five years. Often your
research supervisor that you pair with in first year becomes a mentor, as do
the staff in the areas of OB/GYN that you find yourself particularly
interested in (whether subspecialty or generalists who simply have areas of
common clinical interest). Also, there is a close mentor relationship that
develops between the Junior OB resident (4 blocks in first year) and the
Senior OB resident, as you work 12-hour days together 5 days a week for 4
months! Your Senior OB teaches you everything from your first C-section to
just knowing the ropes as a resident.



2\. Are there MIS opportunities at Queen's?

MIS opportunities abound! By the end of Junior GYN you will have had several
opportunities to perform a TLHBSO as primary surgeon with staff assist. We
also get lots of hysteroscopy on Junior GYN and in Brockville. On GYN Oncology
you will have the opportunity to assist robotic surgery as well.



3\. What mechanisms are there for feedback, and is the program responsive?

We have a biannual resident meeting with the Residency Program Committee where
we discuss any difficulties residents are experiencing and how they can be
overcome. The program is very responsive and at the next retreat we review the
'leftovers' from the previous retreat to make sure they were addressed.
Throughout the year feedback can also be channeled through the Residency
Program Committee (3 resident reps - 2 voting) or can be brought to the
Program Director, who is always available to chat!



4\. What is your call schedule like?

We do a night float system that we call ‘mole week’ - Mon to Thurs inclusive
from 5pm-7:15am. On weekends we split our shifts so everyone gets a bit of a
weekend:

  * Fri night + Sun day (pre-call Friday afternoon)
  * Sat day + Sun night 
  * Sat night

The residents really love this arrangement!  We don’t do graduated call _per
se_ (i.e. decreasing the amount of call as you get more senior) but the senior
residents do more second call, which is home call with GYN Oncology rounding
on weekends, so they spend less time in hospital than primary call.

**  
**

** **

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27115?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27115