#  Dalhousie University - Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology - Halifax  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on August 30, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Cheng Wang  

Address Pathology and Laboratory Medicine  
5788 University Avenue  
Mackenzie Building  
Halifax, Nova Scotia, B3H 1V8  

Work  9024737731

Websites of Interest [ Dahousie DCP program
](https://medicine.dal.ca/departments/department-
sites/pathology/education/residency-program/diagnostic-clinical-
pathology.html)  
[ Dal DPLM EDIA ](https://medicine.dal.ca/departments/department-
sites/pathology/about/edia.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Karla Goldsmith

Title: Program Administrator

Email: pathres@dal.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please note that Dalhousie University offers four residency training programs
in Pathology and Laboratory Medicine.  **Diagnostic and Clinical  Pathology
(previously known as General Pathology) is one of the four programs.**  The
other three are **Diagnostic and molecular  Pathology (previously known as
Anatomical Pathology), Hematopathology, and Medical Microbiology**. One (1)
CaRMS position for 2025 in Diagnostic and clinical Pathology is allocated.
Candidates are encouraged to acquaint themselves with the differences between
these subspecialties and apply specifically to those that interest them most.

To obtain a postgraduate training license after the match's conclusion,
Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) must register and challenge the Medical
Council of Canada Qualifying Exam Part 1 (MCCQE 1) by July 1, 2025. Those
unsuccessful in the exam are subject to the regulatory authority's decision
regarding licensure.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

####  

You must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident _**at the time of
application**_.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

The Selection Committee requires three reference letters, and only three will
be reviewed.

References should be from three academic physicians or scientists under whose
supervision you have worked and who are able to attest to your professional
and personal skills.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  250

  

The personal letter should state why you are specifically interested and
suitable to General Pathology, and should also include your current career
plans. 250 words or less.

Optional - will be reviewed

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 27, 2025
  * January 28, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held on Monday and
Tuesday, January 27 and 28,  2025.  
  
An online interview with video is required. In exceptional circumstances and
at the discretion of the Program, interviews by telephone will be considered.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews are conducted by members
of a Selection Committee, including the chief resident (or a resident
representative if the chief resident is unavailable), the Program Director,
and at least two other staff pathologists/laboratory physicians.  
  
There will be a 50-minute interview for each candidate.  We reserve the right
to adjust the interview process to be fair to all eligible applicants.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

  * A favourable academic record
  * It is strongly suggested that you have references from academic specialists in clinical or laboratory disciplines under whose supervision you have worked and who can attest to your professional and personal qualities.
  * Excellent communication and collaboration skills
  * An appreciation for the unique nature of Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology practice, preferably with prior exposure during an elective
  * A personal letter stating why you are interested in Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology. Please include a brief outline of your future career plans.

## Program goals

Our residency program aims to train highly qualified MDs to become safe and
competent Diagnostic and Clinical pathologists. Residents who have completed
their training will be ready for independent practice or further subspecialty
fellowship training in Canada and worldwide. We strive to help the next
generation of Diagnostic and Clinical pathologists become leaders in their
field and advocate for excellence in diagnostic services and patient care.

## Selection process goals

  * The goal of the selection process is to identify candidates with strong motivation and proper experience/knowledge in any of the following areas: Anatomical Pathology, Cytopathology, Autopsy Pathology, Hematopathology, Medical Microbiology, and Clinical Biochemistry so that they will be comfortable in handling daily tasks and workloads required for DCP residency training.
  * Our program and university value the importance of equity, diversity, inclusion, and accessibility (EDIA) in residency education, and achieving a diverse and inclusive group of residents is a goal in our selection process.
  * Preference will be given to candidates from the Maritime provinces who are willing to practice in the Maritime provinces after completing their training.

## File review process

Review team composition : The application file review team generally consists
of several staff pathologists/ laboratory scientists, the chief or co-chief
resident of the General Pathology Program

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Experience in any of the following: Anatomical Pathology, Autopsy, Cytopathology, Hematopathology, Molecular Pathology, Medical Microbiology, or Medical Biochemistry. (Candidates are not required to have all of these experiences.)   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Any elective in the following: Anatomical Pathology, Autopsy, Cytopathology, Hematopathology, Molecular Pathology, Medical Microbiology, or Medical Biochemistry. (Candidates are not required to have all)   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not formally evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We do not formally evaluate this file component   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Not required but is an asset   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evidence of favorable performance in undergraduate training   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interested in pursuing a career in a community setting by practicing any of the following: Anatomical Pathology, Autopsy, Cytopathology, Hematopathology, Molecular Pathology, Medical Microbiology, or Medical Biochemistry.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Appropriate knowledge base in Medicine and Pathology, Strong interpersonal skills and professionalism   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Not required but is an asset   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evidence of favorable performance in Pathology and Laboratory Medicine related courses/exams   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Electives in one of the following areas will be considered: Anatomical
Pathology (Adults or Pediatrics), Autopsy Pathology (Adults, Pediatrics or
Forensic), Cytopathology, Molecular Pathology, Medical Microbiology,
Hematopathology, Clinical Chemistry and Pathology Informatics.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due
to weather, technology failure or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence of previous collaboration in clinical service, teaching or research activities   
Collegiality |  Evidence of working efficiently and collegially as a team member   
Communication skills |  Clarity of personal letters or CVs   
Health advocacy |  We do not evaluate this interview component directly   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrate proper understanding of the role that Pathologists can play in patient care   
Interest in the program |  Understands the strengths of Dalhousie General Path Program   
Leadership skills |  Knowledge of different Pathology service team compositions and/or workloads   
Professionalism |  Proper dress code, punctuality   
Scholarly activities |  Able to name a few research topics related to Pathology or Laboratory Medicine   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**HIGHLIGHTS!**  

  * The Dalhousie Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine (DPLM) provides precision diagnostic services to Nova Scotia, PEI, New Brunswick, and Newfoundland. The quantity and variety of the clinical material (including consult cases from the four provinces) are sufficiently large and diverse to allow adequate exposure for residents in training.
  * Most teaching faculties have additional subspecialty fellowship training and function as regional consultants for the Maritime provinces. This affords an unparalleled learning environment for our residents.
  * The medical staff at DPLM are well known for functioning as a collegial team. They are dedicated to resident teaching, evidenced by the EPA completion rates for the Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology (DCP) Residents: 91% in 2021-2022 and 92% in 2022-2023. 
  * The current Departmental Head, Dr. Irene Sadek, provides direct support to the program and makes time to meet with the residents both as a group and individually if it is necessary.
  * A well-functioning Residency Program Committee (including staff pathologists, the chief resident and at least one resident representative) leads our residency program.
  * The program is well organized. The teaching in Anatomical Pathology has been traditionally solid and effective. In addition, Medical Microbiology and Medical Biochemistry both offered minicourses for junior and senior DCP residents, which has further strengthened the program’s organization and contributed to our resident’s success.
  * The Department of Pathology also sponsors other strong residency programs in laboratory medicine, including Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology (DMP), Hematopathology (HP), and Medical Microbiology (MM). Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology residents rotate through these divisions, and their successes contribute to our success.
  * Since 2014, all ten (10) graduates of the Dalhousie DCP Program were successfully recruited by various institutions after completing their training.
  * The DCP program is largely based on one institution (QEII Health Science Center in Halifax, aka MacKenzie Building, home to more than 40 pathologists and laboratory scientists). This allows frequent, collegial, efficient interactions between staff pathologists and residents.
  * The Nova Scotia Medical Examiner’s Office is a state-of-the-art facility staffed by highly trained Forensic Pathologists located just across the street from the provincial police services. This affords an unparalleled learning environment for our residents in forensic pathology. 
  * There is ready access to high-quality multi-head microscopes (six sets, three on the 7th floor, two on the 6th floor and one on the 2nd floor of the MacKenzie building), digital cameras, and other imaging equipment such as an automated, high-capacity Digital Pathology scanner (Aperio GT450 Dx), Nikon Digital Sight 10, and the associated desktop computers that are linked with Nova Scotia Health Intranet. 
  * Excellent community-based rotations in several Maritime labs are an integral part of the training, with most residency training done in the Halifax area. 
  * The DPLM has an active green team. For example, the QEII cytopathology lab has received gold-level green lab certification. The lab reduced special waste by 75% and the energy consumption of the incubator by 70%.  
  * The program currently has nine (9) residents representing diverse cultures and ethnic backgrounds. There is a functional departmental EDIA committee to ensure EDIA policy implementation. [Pathology Department EDIA Committee](https://medicine.dal.ca/departments/department-sites/pathology/about/edia.html "Pathology Department EDIA Committee") 

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Transition to Discipline (July of PGY1)**

The first month of PGY1 is an Introductory Transition to Discipline curriculum
that allows residents to obtain the Entrustable Professional Activities (EPAs)
required by the Royal College Competence By Design training system. It is
shared with AP residents and allows students to get to know faculty, other
residents, and learn the basics of microscope function, slide scanning,
grossing, and photography. The program is a mixture of didactic and hands-on
activities. There is an end-of-rotation slide quiz and case presentation.

**Foundations of Discipline (rest of PGY1)**

There are 12 blocks in the remainder of PGY1, which allow residents to
complete the EPAs in the Foundations stage of training:

  * Combined Endocrinology/Metabolism and Medical Chemistry (1 block)
  * Clinical Hematology (1 block)
  * Infectious Diseases(1 block)
  * General Surgery (1 block)
  * Radiation Oncology or Medical Oncology (1 block)
  * Gynecological Oncology (1 block)
  * Subspecialty Pediatrics (usually Pediatric Oncology) (1 block)
  * Community lab rotation (1 block)
  * Autopsy Pathology (1 block at the Nova Scotia Medical Examiner Service in Dartmouth)
  * Foundations of Hematopathology (1 block)
  * Foundations of Anatomical Pathology and Clinical Pathology (2 blocks)

**PGY2 through PGY5 - Core, and Transition to Practice stages (five of blocks
are supposed to be in a community lab setting outside of Halifax)**

13 blocks of Junior AP/Autopsy

3 blocks of Senior AP/Autopsy

4 blocks of Cytopathology (3 junior and 1 senior)

2 blocks of Forensic Pathology (at the Nova Scotia Medical Examiner Service in
Dartmouth)

1 block of Pediatric AP/Autopsy (at the IWK Health Center in Halifax)

6 blocks in Hematopathology (rotating through Bone Marrow, Transfusion and
Coagulation, Peripheral Smears)

5 blocks of Adult Clinical Chemistry and one block of Pediatric Clinical
Chemistry

6 blocks of Medical Microbiology

1 block of Molecular Pathology

1 block of Biomarker Pathology

1 block of lymph node pathology

1 block of Pre Royal College Exam Anatomical Pathology

1 block of Pre Royal College Exam Clinical Pathology

3 blocks of Electives



**Educational Program  **

An academic half-day is held every Wednesday morning during which time, the
residents are excused from all service responsibilities. This includes
didactic and small group sessions plus teaching at the multi-head microscope.
A series of GP-specific topics are presented on Monday noon sessions, which
are mandatory for PGY3, 4, and 5. Additional divisional teaching rounds
include autopsy, quality assurance, journal club, interesting cases, and
gross-micro rounds. Several subspecialties provide regular teaching sessions
at the multi-head microscope. In PGY4 or 5, each resident has access to $1000
to help fund a conference or review course.

**Research**

The program requires each resident to engage in at least one well-designed
research project.  Opportunities exist in both basic science and clinical
realms. A resident research coordinator is in place to provide support and
guidance.  The resident is expected to present his/her research at the annual
Pathology Departmental Research Day, CAP, USCAP, or other appropriate
conferences, and to attempt to publish the data.  Financial support is
provided for PGY2 through PGY5 residents to attend a conference annually at
which they are presenting a paper or poster ($1500).  Residents are required
to present a poster or platform presentation at the annual Pathology
Departmental research day in PGY2 through PGY4.



**Teaching Opportunities**

Residents are essential advocates and teachers for the medical students and
residents rotating through pathology. They regularly teach their peers for a
component of the academic half-day. Additional opportunities include medical
school lab instruction and Radiology-Pathology correlation rounds. Senior
residents will also play a greater role in evaluating junior residents in the
CBD model of assessment/evaluation.



**In house exams**

Every fall there is an in-house exam for PGY2-5 residents that includes all
components (written, practical, oral) of the Royal College exam. A second oral
and practical slide exam is provided every spring. All PGY2-4 residents write
the annual RISE exam. It is optional for PGY5 residents.  

* * *

# Training Sites

**Resources**

The affiliated hospitals are listed on Dalhousie University's overview page.
The main site of training are Halifax QEII Health Science Center with some
time spent at

  * the IWK Health Center
  * the Nova Scotia Medical Examiner Service in Dartmouth, NS
  * the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Charlottetown PEI,
  * the Saint John Regional Hospital in Saint John, NB
  * Dr. Everett Chalmers Regional Hospital in Fredericton, NB
  * the Colchester East Hants Health Centre, Truro, NS



At the QEII hospital, the residents will have a microscope and a computer with
access to the internet, hospital intranet, University Libraries, and
Laboratory Information System. Residents have ready access to high-quality
digital cameras with a dedicated computer and imaging software as well as a
digital slide scanner.

All the laboratory medicine divisions and the QEII libraries contain up-to-
date collections of printed and/or electronic textbooks and journals.   Many
meeting rooms are available in the department of laboratory medicine, equipped
with computers, projectors, teleconference devices, and, in some cases,
microscopes with projection software for multidisciplinary rounds or
conferences.  Similar equipment is also available at the University Department
in Sir Charles Tupper Building.  There are an 18 head Olympus microscope and
an eight head Olympus microscope for teaching in the Anatomical Pathology
Division. There is a 10 head Nikon teaching microscope that will attached
imaging cameras in the Hematopathology Division.  All residents have access to
reference managers and statistical software.  

_NOTE: All residency programs are required to have 10% of their residency
training outside of Halifax Regional Municipality as stipulated in the most
recent Academic Funding Plan set out by the Department of Health and Wellness
of Nova Scotia. Please be aware that if matched to Halifax, as part of your
training you may be expected to complete rotations outside the central zone
but within the maritime provinces._



* * *

# Additional Information

Choose a career in General Pathology and all the flexibility and opportunity
to explore varied interests within Laboratory Medicine that affords.  Do not
limit yourself to just one area of the fascinating world of Laboratory
Medicine!  Join a robust General Pathology program in one Canada’s largest
health care institutions.   The well structured teaching with dedicated and
collegial faculties, abundant cases and wide spectrum of expertise affords a
rich learning environment.  Institutional centralization allows for a wide
breadth of cases with great diversity.   Experiences in the world-leading IWK
Health Centre and the state-of the-art Medical Examiner’s Office add to the
calibre of the resident’s training.  The atmosphere is collegial with an
emphasis on resident success.  Situated in Halifax, residents of Dalhousie
University benefit from the abundance of urban activities of a city with the
added charm of the beautiful outdoors that the Maritimes has to offer.





Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27031?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27031