#  University of Toronto - Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology - Toronto

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 09, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Susan Done  

Address Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology  
1 King's College Circle  
MSB, Rm 6207  
Toronto, Ontario, M5S 1A8  

(416) 978-7535

Websites of Interest [ Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology
](http://www.lmp.utoronto.ca)  
[ PGME at U of T ](http://www.pgme.utoronto.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: Program Contact

Name: Paula Nixon

Title: Postgraduate Coordinator

Email: lmp.pg@utoronto.ca

Phone: 416-978-7535

416-978-7361

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion**  
All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of the
University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

  
**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)  
** The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.  
  
_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Thank you for your interest in the Postgraduate Education program in the
Department of Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology at The University of Toronto.
This is the largest Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology residency program in
Canada in number of teaching staff, research productivity, hospital facilities
and patient volume. (The University of Toronto is the tertiary referral centre
for a metropolitan population of more than 2,600,000 and a surrounding
population of about 6,000,000) These resources offer an unequalled opportunity
for Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology residency training. The very large
research establishment and strong academic program provide a supportive
environment for learning and enquiry in all aspects of Diagnostic and
Molecular Pathology.

Our program seeks to equip trainees to be the pathology leaders of the future.
Accordingly, we are looking for a cohort of residents that are committed to a
career in pathology, keen to advance the evolving role of pathology in patient
care and are capable of learning, understanding and integrating the large
volume of material required.

The University of Toronto offers a comprehensive program in Diagnostic and
Molecular Pathology, which is accredited by the [Royal College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Canada](http://rcpsc.medical.org/main_e.php). Over 120 staff
pathologists at multiple sites are involved in resident education. These sites
include: The Hospital for Sick Children; Mount Sinai Hospital; St. Michael's
Hospital; Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre; Michael Garron Hospital; The
University Health Network (Toronto General Hospital, Princess Margaret
Hospital, Toronto Western Hospital); Trillium Health Partners, North York
General Hospital, St. Joseph’s Health Centre, Lakeridge Health, and the
Provincial Forensic Pathology Unit. Each of these sites has particular
strengths and allows the program as a whole to offer residents experience in
all areas of Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology practice.

Visit our website at http://www.lmp.utoronto.ca/postgraduate/residency-
training-programs  
  
In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Examinations

Optional - will be reviewed

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

Reports with breakdown of scores.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three recent reference letters from teaching or attending staff are required.
One or more reference letters from a faculty member from a pathologist is
helpful but not required.

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

Please outline any personal history that may be relevant to your application.
Also state your reasons for choosing Pathology as a career and outline your
academic and non-academic accomplishments, as well as future goals.

MAXIMUM WORD COUNT: 1000 (no minimum requirement)  
  
_Important Note: Please address any gaps in training or remediation periods in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count._

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Optional - will be reviewed

Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS)

If applicant is successful, ACLS is required before commencement of PGY1
clinical rotations. Please visit the PGME website for information on courses
available through the University of Toronto.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Due to the high volume of applications we will NOT consider applications,
reference letters or other supporting documents submitted after the file
review has opened.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 27, 2025
  * January 28, 2025
  * January 29, 2025
  * January 30, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: After review of the application files we
will offer interviews only to candidates that have made the interview short
list. Candidates that are not contacted either by email or telephone have not
made the list. Each candidate will meet with the Program Director and members
of the Residency Program Committee.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Notification/Invitation: Program will
only notify applicants, by email, who are selected for an interview.  
  
Details regarding the interview process: All interviews will be held via Zoom.
The candidate will have a single interview with members of the Residency
Program Committee. The interview format is formal; applicants will be asked to
talk about themselves, their interests, reasons for their specialty choices,
long term goals etc. Each interview is expected to last approximately 30-45
minutes.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

Our program seeks to equip trainees to be the pathology leaders of the future.
Accordingly, we are looking for a cohort of residents that are committed to a
career in pathology, keen to advance the evolving role of pathology in patient
care and are capable of learning, understanding and integrating the large
volume of material required.

Upon completion of training, a resident is expected to be a competent
specialist in Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology capable of assuming a
consultant's role in the specialty. The resident must acquire a working
knowledge of the theoretical basis of the specialty, including its foundations
in the basic medical sciences and research. Residents must demonstrate the
requisite skills, and attitudes for effective patient-centred care and service
to a diverse population. In all aspects of specialist practice, the graduate
must be able to address issues of gender, sexual orientation, age, culture,
ethnicity and ethics in a professional manner.

## Selection process goals

Applicants providing evidence of a demonstrated commitment to Diagnostic and
Molecular Pathology will be prioritized for further consideration. Successful
applicants will be able to further elaborate their achievements at the time of
interview.

Candidates selected for interview will be ranked based on the scores of their
application (50%) and interview (50%). Final ranks will be determined solely
by the aggregate score as outlined above.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team is composed of the program director,
site directors, senior Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology residents and
designated faculty members.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We evaluate all content including research, publications, volunteer activities and interests   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Elective experience in pathology is encouraged.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We evaluate all examination results.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We evaluate all activities including mentoring and volunteer activities   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  We evaluate leadership positions and programs that develop leadership skills   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  We evaluate all past performance including undergraduate and graduate studies   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  We evaluate interest in, and dedication to Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology and our program   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  We evaluate all reference letters for evidence of excellence in CanMEDS roles   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We evaluate participation in, and dedication to, research activities including publications   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We evaluate all academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We evaluate the ability to work in a team environment to provide exemplary care   
Collegiality |  We evaluate behaviour, attitudes and professionalism as demonstrated by the candidate   
Communication skills |  We evaluate proficiency in effective written and spoken English within a team environment   
Health advocacy |  We evaluate candidates' commitment to health advocacy.   
Interest in the discipline |  We evaluate interest and dedication to the knowledge and skills required to practice   
Interest in the program |  We evaluate interest and commitment to our Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology (DMP) Residency Training Program   
Leadership skills |  We evaluate a commitment to developing leadership skills required for an DMP practice   
Professionalism |  We evaluate the ability to demonstrate professional conduct at all times   
Scholarly activities |  We evaluate all scholarly activity including research and teaching   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * Large volume and wide spectrum of clinical material
  * There are opportunities for interprovincial and international electives while training in our program
  * There are no mandatory rural rotations
  * The ratio of resident to faculty is 1 to 7
  * Residents have access to electronic medical resources through the hospitals and the University of Toronto library system
  * Research is a part of the RCPSC training expectations in DMP. Toronto offers a vast array of research opportunities and residents are helped to develop research projects in areas of their own interest. A half day per week of protected time for research is given. Residents may undertake research projects while on core, mandatory or elective rotations or opt for dedicated research electives of 3 to 12 months. 

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

In July 2019, our Program implemented Competency Based Education and follows
the Royal College Competency By Design framework.

Transition to Discipline Stage:

This is a 1 block training period which includes core skills and competencies
needed for early residency success.  These include an orientation to
Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology and introduction to laboratory services.
Residents will become familiar with the autopsy suite, gross room,
intraoperative consultation suite, specimen accessioning histology lab.
Residents will have access to work stations with microscope, camera and access
to LIS. Residents will participate in multiheaded microscope teaching sessions
and will learn laboratory safety policies. Observation and select
participation in grossing, intraoperative consultation, specimen preparation,
tissue processing and slide preparation will be expected.

Foundations Stage:

This training period spans 11 blocks of residency.  Residents experience
clinical rotations designed to support educational opportunities including
oncology,  and relevant subspecialties with patient contact. Residents will
also participate in pathology rotations designed to allow achievement of
broad-based competencies in their Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology training.

Core Training Stage:

This training period is expected to span 40 blocks of training. This stage
covers the core competencies that make up the majority of Diagnostic and
Molecular Pathology training. Core areas will include general surgical
pathology, gross pathology, cytopathology, pediatric and perinatal pathology,
neuropathology, autopsy pathology, forensic pathology, ancillary testing,
molecular pathology, cytogenetics, flow cytometry, special stains, AI and
digital pathology, quality assurance and principles of lab management.

Transition to Practice stage:

During this time (13 blocks), the senior trainee will obtain training
experiences designed to support readiness for independent practice.

Research

Residents are helped to find research projects that are interesting to them
and matched with a faculty research supervisor. Residents are expected to give
presentations of their projects at the annual Departmental Research Day. Some
trainees choose to pursue graduate degrees (MSc or PhD) during or after their
residency training. Residents are given 0.5 days per week protected time for
research.

Academic Program

Seminars and an organized teaching program supplement residency training.
Centralized and hospital-based seminars and rounds are held regularly, as well
as graduate and joint interdepartmental seminars which residents are
encouraged to attend. An academic half-day each week is an integral part of
the program and residents have protected time to attend. A continually updated
2 year curriculum covers all areas of DMP.

* * *

# Training Sites

The Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology has staff and
facilities in eleven major teaching hospitals and institutions. The training
program, however, operates as a single educational unit. The bulk of core
training occurs in a limited number of teaching hospitals. Each core resident
is based at one of the four major sites and will rotate through each of the
four during their core. Community practice is also an important part of core
training. In later years of the curriculum, including both subspecialty and
elective rotations, other teaching hospitals in the U of T system are used as
well. Facilities include the following teaching hospitals: The Hospital for
Sick Children; Mount Sinai Hospital; Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Unity
Health, and The University Health Network (Toronto General Hospital, Toronto
Western Hospital and Princess Margaret Cancer Centre), St. Joseph’s Health
Centre, Trillium Health Partners, Michael Garron Hospital, North York General
Hospital and the Lakeridge Health Network are community hospitals that also
participate in resident training.  Forensic Pathology is undertaken at the
Provincial Forensic Pathology Unit (Ontario Forensic Pathology Service).
Clinical research is conducted in all our teaching hospitals.  Basic research
laboratories are on the university campus or within hospital research
institutes. At The Hospital for Sick Children, pediatric pathology is
practiced exclusively; most other hospital departments deal with a wide
variety of specimens from all body sites. All use multiple investigative
techniques.

For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>

* * *

# Additional Information

  1. **Permanent Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education office in order to comply with current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry of Colleges and Universities
  2. **Matched applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data file to the matched university’s postgraduate education office. The postgraduate office will share the information as needed, but not limited to, the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:**  The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure to meet or provide proof**  of any of the stated requirements may result in applicant file being removed at any point during the match.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27273?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27273