#  University of Alberta - Internal Medicine - Edmonton

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 7

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Thirza Carpenter  

Address Medicine  
13-103J Clinical Sciences Building  
11350-83 Avenue  
Edmonton, Alberta, Alberta, T6G 2P4  

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Department of Medicine University of Alberta
](https://www.ualberta.ca/department-of-medicine/education/residency-
programs/core-internal-medicine/index.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr Thirza Carpenter

Title: Program Director

  

Name: Jennifer Aquin

Title: Medicial Education Program Coord

Email: cimtwo@ualberta.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

**International Medical Graduates**  (IMGs) interested in postgraduate medical
training positions in Alberta are eligible to apply to IMG positions at the
University of Alberta provided they have applied to, and been assessed as
eligible, by the Alberta International Medical Graduate Program (AIMG)
Program. Please refer to the [Alberta Provincial
Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/) and [visit the AIMG Program website](http://www.aimg.ca/)
for details on deadlines, eligibility criteria, and the application process.

**Alberta IMG Program (AIMG) Multiple Mini Interview (MMI) results:**

Please note that the Multiple Mini Interviews (MMI) scores will be shared
directly to the residency programs by AIMG. MMI results are not submitted by
applicants.

**Competence by Design (CBD)**

Our program successfully transitioned to CBD in accordance with the national
coordinated
[schedule](https://www.royalcollege.ca/content/dam/documents/accreditation/competence-
by-design/directory/cbd-rollout-schedule-e.html) as of July 1, 2019.​ Our
program will continue to undergo the same rigorous accreditation process as
traditional programs.

**Should you wish to contact a resident in our program for more information,
our current Lead Residents can be contacted at the below email:

cimldres@ualberta.ca



* * *

# Return of Service

There are no return of service requirements at the University of Alberta.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Please see the Alberta [provincial
criteria.](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/)

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) are required to provide proof of
English language proficiency as determined by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) who completed their medical education in
Quebec or at the University of Ottawa (French Stream) are required to provide
proof of English language proficiency as determined by the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

CMGs who completed their medical education at the University of Ottawa must
indicate on their application which stream they completed (either French or
English).

_For more information on the CPSA English language requirements, please visit
the  [CPSA website](https://cpsa.ca/physicians/registration/english-language-
proficiency/)._

Examinations

Required

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

The National Assessment Collaboration Objective Structured Clinical
Examination results are sent to CaRMS directly from physiciansapply.ca



MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

If you have completed the MCCQE1 these documents are sent to CaRMS directly
from physiciansapply.ca

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Please submit 3 reference letters.

Per the [AFMC](https://www.afmc.ca/learners-news-november-2023/), reference
letters:

  * Reference documents from the institution to where the applicant is applying must not be a criterion for file review nor ultimately, for ranking.    

  * There will be no requirement to obtain a discipline-specific reference document for the discipline to which the applicant is applying.   

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Applicant CV should also include: -Academic record -Awards -Scholarly Activity
(Research) -Non-medical activities: sports, arts, community service,
Leadership Roles, etc. -Other: Languages, managerial experience -Electives
experiences - if available

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  300

Maximum :  None

  

Please address the following questions.  Each answer should be 300 words or
less.

Q1).  If you can only do one of the following in medicine, which would you
choose - teacher, researcher, administrator, inpatient care, or outpatient
care? Why?

Q2). Would you describe yourself as an introvert or extrovert? What does that
mean to you? How do you think that impacts your training and the type of
doctor you will be?



Optional - will be reviewed

Documentation of prior postgraduate training

If applicable, please include as much detail as possible regarding specific
rotation and degree of responsibility (ie. junior, senior resident)

Detailed outline of medical practice experience

If applicable, please include as much detail as possible regarding the setting
of clinical practice and type of patients encountered (ie. in/out-patient,
general medicine/subspecialty)

Alberta IMG Clinical Assessment Placement

Applicants are required to upload the document as 'other' documents.



* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews for Internal Medicine at the
University of Alberta for AIMG candidates will be held Tuesday January 21,
2025.  Morning Interview only, please plan for the full morning 7:30AM to
12:00 PM MST.  
  
Interviews will be scheduled by invitation only.  
  
All interviews in 2025 will be completed virtually, via zoom.  
  
Should you be selected for an interview, interview offers will be uploaded to
CaRMS Viewing access only on Friday January 10, 2025 and to book your
interview will be on Monday, January 13, 2025.  
  
You will be contacted by email at 2 PM EST Friday January 10, 2025 providing
you with instructions on how to access the Internal Medicine system to book
interviews. This will be done using a web-based on-line system which will
facilitate the scheduling process.  
  
On Monday January 13, 2025, 12 noon EST you will be able to book your
interview within the Internal Medicine system.  
  
AIMG January 21, 2025 Interview Date: Morning Interviews Only (Interviews will
be an all morning process)  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Applicants selected for interview will be notified
directly.

Details regarding the interview process: Applicants will interview in an MMI
format including 5 stations with 1 staff physician and 1 resident from our
program. Each MMI interview will be approximately 16.5 minutes in duration.  
  
Applicants will also interview for 10 minutes with the Program Director and a
Lead Resident and interview for 10 minutes with an Associate Program Director
and the Medical Education Team Lead.  
  
**NOTE:**  Interview scenarios **may include clinical cases** and non-medical
CanMEDS cases.  
  
Applicants should plan from 7:30 am to 12:00 pm MST to complete the interview
process.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Selection for Interview Criteria

The Internal Medicine program at the University of Alberta considers a wide
range of criteria when selecting applicants for the interview which may
include the categories listed below:

  * Academic record
  * Scholarly Activity (Research)
  * Non-medical activities: extracurricular activities, community service, Leadership Roles, etc.
  * Reference letters (note criteria in Supporting Documents)
  * Personal submission
  * Other: business / managerial experience, extra curricular interests
  * Electives - diverse experience in a wide range of specialties

Our program is seeking collegial applicants with clearly demonstrated strong
interpersonal and team skills indicative of the professionals we are
recruiting. We are looking for enthusiastic, well rounded applicants who have
had a variety of experiences not only in Medicine but in the arts, team
sports, and community service.

We are looking for leaders and applicants with a true passion for Medicine as
evidenced with an eclectic mix of electives which may include experiences
ranging from Obstetrics and Gynecology, Anesthesia, Rural Family Medicine,
Pediatrics, Internal Medicine and / or its subspecialties, etc.

## Program goals

### MISSION

> To improve the health and health care of current and future generations
> through excellence and innovation in education, research and clinical care.

### VISION

> To be recognized for innovative education, research and clinical care
> resulting in better health and healthcare locally and globally.

### VALUES

> Excellence and innovation in all aspects of our mandate.
>
>   * Leadership - local, regional, national and global
>   * Integrity, respect and caring as the hallmark of our interactions
>   * Collaboration, collegiality and teamwork in our approach to teaching,
> research and patient care
>   * Partnership, which underpins the basis of our relationships with the
> organizations and communities we serve
>   * Transparency and public accountability in our decision-making
>   * Evaluation and continuous improvement of all we do
>

## Selection process goals

The ideal successful applicant is someone who takes pride in their work and
their training.  Successful applicants are individuals who take care and work
for the best not only for their patients, but for their colleagues and
program.  We are looking for candidates who lead by example and want to take
ownership of their training.  Residents in our program work hard but also
understand the importance of balance in their life, ensuring a learning
environment that is educational and kind.

## File review process

Review team composition : Each applicant file is reviewed independently by two
different staff physicians in the Department of Medicine.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We do not evaluate this file component as the key elements are found within the CaRMS portfolio.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Internal medicine and/or medicine subspecialty electives based on diverse experience in a wide range of specialties. Our program does not favour residents who do electives at our site or numerous electives in our specialty. We consider and value applicants with broad clinical experiences.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file componen   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Leadership and accomplishment   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Significant and sustained leadership roles   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Reviewed for red flags only.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Applicant responses to questions are read in their entirety   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Three letters of reference are reviewed in their entirety with a focus on clinical acumen   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  A history of research participation and publication is reviewed.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Reviewed for red flags only.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We are looking for leaders and applicants with a true passion for Medicine as
evidenced with an eclectic mix of electives which may include experiences
ranging from Obstetrics and Gynecology, Anesthesia, Rural Family Medicine,
Pediatrics, Internal Medicine and / or its subspecialties, etc.

Our program does not favour residents who do electives at our site or numerous
electives in our specialty. We consider and value applicants with broad
clinical experiences.

Programs should not favour residents who do electives at our site or numerous
electives in the specialty for which they are applying. Per the
[AFMC](https://www.afmc.ca/resources-data/education/undergraduate-students-
electives-md-graduates/#demystifyingResident):

Elective Diversification  
The [AFMC Student Elective Diversification
Policy](https://www.afmc.ca/resources-data/education/undergraduate-students-
electives-md-graduates/#demystifyingResident) was implemented at all Faculties
of Medicine in Canada beginning with the Class of 2021 and will ensure that
student elective opportunities do not exceed eight weeks in any single entry-
level discipline.

Because of the above, programs cannot place emphasis on electives during the
selection process. Medical Schools across Canada are advising their medical
students to do a broad range of electives and not focus on one area to the
exclusion of others. Additionally, per our own PGME Resident Selection Best
Practices guideline 2.12: "Programs must consider and value applicants with
broad clinical experiences and not expect or over-emphasize numerous electives
in one discipline or at a local site".



## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to collaborate in teams, staff and junior learners   
Collegiality |  Contributor to a respectful and professional environment   
Communication skills |  Individual who is able to share their thoughts and ideas in a clear way   
Health advocacy |  Individual who is able to demonstrate an ability to advocate for the health of their patient and the healthcare system.   
Interest in the discipline |  Individual who demonstrates passion for internal medicine   
Interest in the program |  Individual who demonstrates passion for medicine and our learning environment   
Leadership skills |  Ability to lead clinically but also someone who wants to take ownership of their residency training   
Professionalism |  A pattern of professional behaviour and ability to reflect on that   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Other interview component(s) |  As we offer an MMI component, interview components and focus may change slightly from year to year.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Highlights of the Internal Medicine Residency Training Program, University
of Alberta**

  * We encourage and welcome students from out of province to apply to our program.
  * We were an early adopter of Competency by Design, launching in 2019.  We are national leaders for CBD!
  * PGY1 Transition to Discipline Bootcamp: full academic days in July and August for R1s including two simulation fulldays
  * Protected time is set aside each Thursday to enable you to attend Academic Half-Day sessions which have a combination of lectures and small groups coordinated by faculty members; AHD also includes resident prepared presentations. A Crisis Resource Management simulation ½ day is provided for R1s and R2s.
  * Opportunities exist for rural community rotations (including Red Deer and Grande Prairie).
  * Ample elective and selective time is offered allowing opportunities for you to choose rotations based on your career goals.
  * An innovative two-week PGY3 **CanMEDS rotation** including clinical ethics & communication skills.
  * New England Journal of Medicine Knowledge+ 
  * High quality subspecialty teaching sessions, subspecialty grand rounds, daily morning report, and weekly Medicine Grand Rounds.
  * The three core years offer a wide experience in General Internal Medicine as well as the opportunity to rotate through most subspecialties providing good grounding in the ward experience. The 2nd year focuses on consultancy subspecialty skills, Critical Care, an ED consult and ward consult experience ensuring appropriate graded responsibility. Fellowship training is available in most subspecialties, including transplantation.
  * Our residents consistently perform well in examinations including the Royal College and American Board exams
  * Adherence to the call regulations in accordance to the [Resident Physician Agreement](https://www.para-ab.ca/agreement/) with the Professional Association of Resident Physicians of Alberta (PARA)
  * We have 110+ core Internal Medicine residents and approximately 150 subspecialty residents (including Dermatology, PHPM, Neurology, and PMR).
  * A faculty and department committed to excellence in clinical medicine, research, and medical education. Faculty are encouraged to pursue careers in medical education.
  * A very supportive Department and faculty and a strong and supportive residency training program.
  * Collegial, hardworking residents who are advocates for their peers and patients.
  * A strong commitment by the residents and the Department of Medicine to support residents, foster well-being, and continually improve the program.
  * Numerous opportunities for basic science and clinical research are available. Protected research selective time is offered and all residents are expected to participate in the yearly Department of Medicine Research Day.
  * **Funding for conference travel** is provided ($650/year).
  * Regularly scheduled formative in-training exams including end of rotation exams, yearly clinical exams, and the NEJM Knowledge + In-Training exam.
  * **Night float and shift systems** at the University of Alberta Hospital and Royal Alexandra Hospital respectively for residents which improves continuity of care and decreases fatigue.
  * Wellness Committee** _:_**_ _ Resident-driven Wellness Committee that focuses on promoting resident wellness throughout residency. Events include social gatherings to local restaurants and events, group-exercise events after Academic Half Day, Resident Wellness Challenge and much more.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 3 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

_**3 year program with a possibility of a 4 th year**_

### **PGY1**

In the first (PGY1) year, the following rotations are required:

  * 1 Block cardiology junior (ward based)
  * 1 Block Infectious Diseases 
  * .5 Block ED Consults (Med Jr=GIM UAH ED Consult Service or RAH ED Consults) and .5 block ambulatory clinics
  * 3 Blocks of Medicine Jr (RAH/UAH/GNH)
  * 4 Blocks on the Medicine Subspecialties of Nephrology, Gastroenterology, Pulmonary, and Hematology
  * 1 Block Night Pool (will be scheduled in 2 two-week periods)
  * 1 Block Selective
  * 4 weeks vacation

**Selective Options Include:** Emergency Medicine, Endocrinology, Hepatology
(note: there may be call for Gastro during the Hepatology selective), ICU (can
be either RAH or UAH site), Infectious Diseases (residents must complete 1
block of ID at some point during their R1/R2/R3 training), Geriatric Medicine,
Medical Oncology, Neurology, Occupational Medicine, Palliative Care,
Rheumatology

### **PGY2**

The second (PGY2) year consists of:

  * 2 Blocks of ICU (can request RAH or UAH site)
  * 1 Block CCU
  * 1 Block (4 weeks) Selective
  * 2 Blocks Elective (or 3 blocks if requested)
  * 2 Weeks "Elect2"- a local Edmonton experience you would organize - can include Anesthesia, Radiology, extra clinics that you book directly in the specialty of interest, or other as approved by the program
  * 1 Block MSS Subspecialty Consults (Hem/Gastro/Nephro/Resp)
  * 6 Weeks SR MED Consults/NF/Evenings
  * 4 Weeks Community IM 
  * 4 Weeks Senior CTU (UAH / RAH / GNH)
  * 2 Weeks Ambulatory Clinics including MCT (Multidisciplinary Clinical Teams experiences)
  * 2 weeks UAH Night Pool
  * 4 weeks Vacation

### **PGY3**

The third (PGY3) year consists of:

  * MED SR CTU - may be UAH, RAH, or GNH (in R2/R3, 1 block must be at GNH site)
  * 2 Night Float or Night Pool
  * 2 Two 2 week Select2 periods (1 week study; 1 week selective of choice)
  * 2 MED SR Amb Clinics
  * SR MED ED Consults (4 wks day/evening) and SR PAC WARD Consults (2 wks)
  * CanMEDS (2 weeks)
  * 1 Block GIM Selective: RAH Community or an additional Consult block, Sturgeon (1 per block)
  * 4 Weeks of Medicine Subspecialty (Hem/Neph/Pulm/GI); must be a specialty not already completed in R2
  * 3 Blocks Selective
  * 4 Weeks Elective
  * 4 Weeks Block Selective
  * 4 Weeks vacation

### PGY4

Specialty Training in Internal Medicine requires four years of approved
residency training which includes three foundational years and one year of
“advanced internal medicine training”. This Core Internal Medicine (CIM) PGY-4
year has Royal College mandatory rotations as outlined below. Moreover, the U
of A CIM has created a set rotation default curriculum we encourage all CIM
PGY-4 trainees to adhere to. If there are specific goals or rotations a
trainee would like, outside of the set rotations, these may be considered in
discussion with the Associate Program Director responsible for this year,
and/or the CIM Program Director.

The approval by the RCPSC of General Internal Medicine (GIM) as a subspecialty
of internal medicine, allows residents the option of remaining in the Core
Internal Medicine program for their PGY4 year. Simultaneously, the GIM
subspecialty Residency Training program provides a two year curriculum to all
residents who match to the 2 year GIM program in the Medicine Subspecialty
Match. At the University of Alberta, these changes were implemented over the
2013/14 Academic year. For those seeking to pursue a career in General
Internal Medicine, the GIM subspecialty program is preferentially recommended
to permit additional development of niche skills, and to maximize recruitment
potential (e.g. Academic or urban centre GIM). The Core IM program at the
University of Alberta fully adheres to the General Standards of Accreditation.
The following points will describe the goals, objectives, structure,
organization, resources and curriculum of our PGY4 advanced Internal Medicine
Training.

_**NOTE:** General Internal Medicine at the University of Alberta is a
subspecialty of Internal Medicine and is a 2-year program (PGY4 and PGY5 years
in GIM)._

#### **Goals & Objectives**

  * The overall goals of the internal medicine program are inclusive of the PGY4 year. As of 2017, the primary focus of these goals is the completion of entrustable professional activities (EPAs) in all four stages. The primary focus of the PGY4 year is the transition to practice stage. Completion of CIM EPA's including "Transition to Practice" is mandatory for progressing as expected required to graduate from the Internal Medicine Residency Program.
  * Specific educational objectives are developed for all rotations provided in the PGY4 year. These are included in the biannual mini-program review of the RPC.

#### Structure and Organization-Required

Minimum 20 half-day clinics over 12 months. To develop the skills required to
confidently practice ambulatory medicine, the Royal College requires that a
longitudinal clinic be undertaken. Clinic may be GIM or any other subspecialty
of Medicine. The PGY4 resident will be asked to identify, contact and confirm
a preceptor for their longitudinal 3 months prior to the start of their PGY-4
year, at the latest. If a preceptor is not found by the trainee prior to this
deadline, then a clinic/preceptor will be chosen and provided to the trainee.

#### PGY4 Rotation List (not in sequential order)

  * Jr Attending (2 blocks): One of UAH, RAH, GNH (Mandatory, Royal College Requirement)
    * This is organized in collaboration with the General Internal Medicine program, and can be undertaken at either an academic or community teaching hospital, depending on the resident’s goals, preferences, and site availability. The resident functions under the supervision of the attending physician in a clinical teaching unit or preceptor-based teaching unit, assuming their primary duties. They are given as much independence as permitted by ability, licensure restrictions and hospital policy, in preparation for transition to independent practice.
  * ICU: Suggest MCH or GNH – more procedures, more medicine ICU, fewer/no competing trainees for procedures (Mandatory, Royal College Requirement)
    * Having completed only two blocks of Critical Care training in the PGY1-3 years, the PGY4 resident should complete one additional block of critical care training, with graduated responsibility, as appropriate to the intended practice setting in internal medicine.
  * Community medicine: SCH, MCH, Red Deer (Mandatory)
  * Rural Medicine: Grande Prairie, Yellowknife, (BC possibly if interest) (Mandatory, Royal College Requirement)
    * The PGY4 resident participates in a general practice in internal medicine in a community outside of Edmonton and may include Grande Prairie, Yellowknife, potentially BC interior/north/island if able to secure rotation electively through UBC. The program will also be flexible in approving other settings that may be of interest to the residents.
  * GIM consult service at RAH including Pre-op Clinic (Mandatory)
  * ECG Rotation RAH (includes CCU call) (Mandatory)
  * Neurology at GNH – mix of acute/subacute stroke, general neurology, inpatient plus outpatient clinics (including stroke, headache clinic, general neuro clinic), in a preceptorship model. No overnight call required. (Mandatory)
  * Obstetrical medicine (Mandatory)
  * Ambulatory block (Mandatory, Royal College Requirement)
    * The PGY4 resident should participate in one month of ambulatory clinics in internal medicine. The goal is approximately 28 half-day clinics in a rotation block in a community-based setting (ie. 7 half-day clinics per week)
  * POCUS block (Recommended)
  * Elective
  * Vacation (4 weeks total, may be taken in increments of 1, 2, 3, or 4 weeks)

#### Resources

  * As with other residents in the core program, the teaching staff for PGY4 residents will be derived from the Department of Medicine as a whole rather than unduly expecting any single division such as General Internal Medicine to shoulder this responsibility.
  * The PGY4 resident will have access to the same computers and facilities for information management, on-line references and computer searches as the other residents in the program. This includes the resident lounge and locker space.
  * The program will provide funding for a NEJM Knowledge Plus subscription. 

#### **Academic Program**

  * Internal Medicine Academic Half Day. The PGY4 resident has the option of attending the CIM academic half day on Thursdays. If not the academic half day, then usual clinical service per the rotation is required 
  * Quality Improvement. EPA TP8 "Identifying/Analyzing system-level safety" - PGY-4 Residents will have the following options for completion of this EPA:
    * Prepare and present a QA (Quality Assurance) rounds (one hour talk) at one of the hospital sites or at the CIM Academic Half day, with an Attending supervisor overseeing your presentation.
    * Complete the IHI (Institute for Healthcare Improvement) Patient Safety or QI online modules outlined at this link: [https://www.ihi.org/education/ihi-open-school/Pages/Curriculum.aspx](https://www.ihi.org/education/ihi-open-school/Pages/Curriculum.aspx)
    * Complete a Quality Improvement project (the program will help you find a supervisor for the project)

### Assessment of Resident Performance

  * Rotation ITERs
  * EPA Observations – continuation from PGY1-3. CBME was implemented at the U of A CIM program in July 2017. CBME became mandatory for CIM PGY-4 in July 2022 with a requirement to complete EPAs for the Transition to Practice (TP) stage. A minimum of 3 EPA attempts per week are required (except while on vacation) in order to remain on pace. The CIM Competence Committee will review EPA progress and may recommend minor or major learning plans for failure to complete or maintain pace.
    * Personal Learning Plan. Residents should complete one narrative reflection after each rotation and formal assessment encounter, and continue with case-based reflections as per FD7. These can be completed in Assess.Med and reviewed in Portfolio.Med (Transition to Practice, under TP7 Narrative Form). The narrative reflection can be about a challenging diagnostic dilemma, challenging interaction with a patient/patient family or other health care team member, a reflection on the rotation and what skills have been gained and how they will be incorporated into your future practice or a reflection on any challenges this rotation has highlighted in terms of practicing independently.
    * Multi-source Feedback. Residents should receive multi-source feedback during at least one of the two Junior attending rotations, using the same mechanism that was used in the PGY3 year.

### **Seminars**

The core program provides for approximately 5-8 hours per week of seminar
time, including a daily morning report (General Medicine and the
subspecialties of Gastroenterology, Nephrology, Pulmonary, and Hematology),
daily noon rounds hosted by various subspecialties, weekly Grand Medical
Rounds, and weekly CATs (critically appraised topics) sessions for the R1s.
The Academic Half-Day occurs weekly, and is actively prepared and participated
in by residents. It includes core lecture topics on current management
strategies, reviews of landmark studies, small group problem-based learning
sessions and physical exam skills training, ethics discussions, and journal
clubs - all fully supported by the department's faculty.

* * *

# Training Sites

  *  University of Alberta Hospital
  *  Royal Alexandra Hospital
  *  Cross Cancer Institute
  *  Grey Nuns Hospital, Grey Nuns (Palliative facility), and Northern Alberta Regional Geriatric facility at the Glenrose Rehabilitation Hospital
  *  GIM selective / Community:  Grande Prairie, Red Deer, Sturgeon Community Hospital (St. Albert) rotations

  
---  
  
* * *

# Additional Information

**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)**

The University of Alberta recognizes the importance of diversity, equity,
inclusivity, decolonization, and indigenization (EDIDI) and is committed to
the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry’s policy on anti-racism.

Further, the University is committed to implementing the Truth and
Reconciliation Commission calls to action that are relevant to education and
medicine.The pursuit of diversity and equitable opportunities is a core value
that guides our selection practices.

The University encourages applications from underrepresented groups, including
Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women,
persons of a minority gender identity or sexual orientation, and individuals
who would contribute to the diversity of the medical community. The CaRMS
Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) is an optional form that candidates
can fill out.

Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism in residency
selection, but is currently not using the CSIQ as part of our application
process. We are using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable
opportunities for all applicants.



**OTHER IMPORTANT INFORMATION:  ****Sample Resident Feedback on Some of the
Unique Rotations at University of Alberta**

**Two Week CanMEDs rotation:  **

  * Was a nice change from clinical work and allowed for ample time to really invest in the learning material and gain a broader understanding of ethics. The discussions that were had were very applicable to what I see in my day to day work. 
  * High-yield for a 2 week course.  This was a great rotation.
  * Allowed for great discussion and personal reflection.  Overall, fantastic rotation that all senior residents will find helpful

**Simulation Academic ½ Day:**

  * I found the scenarios challenging and I learn something new every time I do one.
  * Really wish we had more, it was an awesome experience!!
  * Very useful sessions to learn to approach emergencies under controlled situations.  Good facilitators
  * Excellent opportunity for formative feedback on collaborator / leadership skills.
  * I wish we had more of these sessions since it does help to think of emergencies and go through scenarios before potentially encountering them on the wards.

**GIM Selective: Grande Prairie**

  * Good learning and great rotation
  * Good exposure to acute and critical medicine
  * Opportunities for procedures 

**GIM Selective: Red Deer**

  * Exposure to community medicine - ambulatory and acute care perspective.
  * Red Deer was an amazing experience with a lot of independence and hands on experience, especially with endoscopic technical skills. I would highly recommend this rotation to anyone who is interested in a subspecialty or more independent learning.
  * The spectrum of cases to be seen in the community is great; hands on, procedures, independence.

* * *

# FAQ

**Can I meet with the Program Director?   **

The Program Director does not meet one-on-one with applicants however we
encourage candidates to reach out to our Internal Medicine Lead Residents if
they have questions about the program - email:  cimldres@ualberta.ca

Candidates are also strongly encouraged to attend and participate in the CaRMS
information sessions offered by our program.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26762?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26762