#  McMaster University - Pediatrics - Hamilton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 27, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Mohammad Zubairi  

Address Pediatrics  
McMaster University  
1280 Main Street West, HSC Room 3N48  
Hamilton, Ontario, L8S 4K1  

Work  905 525-9140 ext. 28689

Work

Websites of Interest [ Department Website
](https://pediatrics.healthsci.mcmaster.ca/)  
[ McMaster PGME - PGY1 entry programs
](https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/)  
[ McMaster PGME ](https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/)  
[ MacPeds CBME website ](https://sites.google.com/view/cbme-macpeds/home)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Mohammad Zubairi

Title: Program Director

Email: zubairm@mcmaster.ca

  

Name: Dr. Brittany Anne Howson-Jan

Title: Associate Program Director

Email: howsonjan@mcmaster.ca

  

Name: Dr. Ranu Malhi

Title: Interim Associate Program Director

Email: malhir1@mcmaster.ca

  

Name: Kaitlin Auld

Title: Senior Education Program Associate

Email: peded@mcmaster.ca

  

Name: Lacey Ferretti

Title: Senior Education Program Associate

Email: peded@mcmaster.ca

  

Name: Sharon Dhillon

Title: Senior Education Program Associate

Email: peded@mcmaster.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-
criteria/ontario/)[.](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/) It is important to review the
requirements carefully.

To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit:
[https://p](https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/)[g](https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/)[me.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_pro](https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/)[g](https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/)[ram_information/](https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/)

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

**Additional criteria for IMGs:**

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site.**

**CELPIP:  **must have minimum score of 9 in each of the four skills in the
same sitting

**IELTS ACADEMIC:  **must have minimum score of 7.0 in each of the four skills
in the same sitting

**Letter of language proficiency** is a letter from your Dean attesting that
your medical school program of instruction was completed solely in English or
French.

**OET MEDICINE** : must have minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in
the same sitting

**TOEFL IBT:  **must have minimum score of 93 with a minimum score of 24 on
the speaking section. The **TOEFL iBT Home Edition**  will be accepted as a
substitute for the TOEFL iBT.

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

For the 2025 CaRMS match IMGs must have written and passed the Medical Council
of Canada Qualifying Examination Part 1 ([MCCQE1](https://mcc.ca/examinations-
assessments/mccqe-part-i/)). Exam results must be provided by the File Review
Opening Date.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

The National Assessment Collaboration (NAC) Objective Structured Clinical
Examination (OSCE) is mandatory for all IMGs. A pass result is required on the
NAC OSCE. The results are required by the file review open date. For more
information click on the following link [National Assessment Collaboration
Medical Council of Canada](https://mcc.ca/examinations-assessments/nac-
examination/ "National Assessment Collaboration Medical Council of Canada")

Optional - will be reviewed

MCCQE Part II

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part II - Statement of Results

IMGs must have written and passed the Medical Council of Canada Qualifying
Examination part 1 (MCCQE 1).

USMLE1

* Document

* USMLE - Step 1

If Done

USMLE2-CK

* Document

* USMLE - Step 2 - Clinical Knowledge (CK)

If Done

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required (any additional letters will not be
considered). Please note the references should be able to speak to your
character, and the qualities that will make you a good pediatric resident
including specific examples. They do not all have to be from a pediatrician,
however, should be from qualified specialists/physicians rather than
residents, perhaps incorporating resident input. Recency of the letter will be
taken into account and only those dated in the past 2 years will be accepted.
Any undated references will not be considered.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal account;](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student)
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153223-My-school-
does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-) [your
MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-
not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-) through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student)

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

An autobiographical letter is required (maximum 750 words) describing:

  * **Why are you considering a career in pediatrics and what experiences have led you to this choice?**

  * **What personal qualities do you feel are critical to the practice of pediatrics and how do these compare to your own qualities?**

  * **How does McMaster's program fit with your learning and professional goals?**

  * **What challenges do you anticipate in residency and how will you plan to overcome these?**

  * **Are there important things that we should know about you in order to fairly consider your application?**

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Custom Résumé / CV

Conditionally required

IMG-BC Clinical Assessment Program

If Done

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed. Documents that are
not in English must be accompanied by a notarized translation

Optional - will be reviewed

USMLE Transcript

If Done

Self-identification questionnaire

Information gathered from the self-identification questionnaire will be used
to understand the diversity of our applicant pool, and to ensure that equity-
seeking groups are not being disadvantaged in our recruitment process.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Reference letters from the institution/discipline will not be required for
consideration of interview.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 30, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be offered to those
applicants considered most suitable for the residency program based on the
submitted package. See "Selection Criteria" section for more details. Our
program will notify all applicants of their status as: selected to interview,
on waitlist for an interview, not selected for an interview. Applicants on the
waitlist will be notified if and when interview spaces become available.  
  
An email notification of interview status will be sent on Monday, January 13,
2025, and CaRMS online updated shortly thereafter.  
  
Interview date for International Medical Graduates is January 30th, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will consist of a group
program information session as well as individual interviews in the Multiple
Mini Interview (MMI) format. The group program information session will orient
candidates to our program and provide an opportunity to ask questions and
interact with current residents. The MMIs will consist of a series of short
interview stations with each station focused on a particular topic or
scenario. Generally, each MMI station will consist of 2 interviewers. The
interviewers for the MMIs consist of faculty members, current pediatric
residents and members of the hospital family advisory committee. Each station
will be approximately 8 minutes long. The interview process may take up to
four hours of a candidate's time and will be virtual via zoom.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Residents should have an interest in pediatrics with commitment to
consultative, academic or subspecialty practice, rather than primary care, as
this is reflective of the vast majority of pediatric practice in our region.
As a mid-sized residency program there is significant opportunity for
independence in the program, as well as flexibility and elective experiences.
There is an emphasis on team experience on the pediatric medicine ward as well
as community pediatrics exposure within the program. Residents have the
opportunity for progressive responsibility as they progress through
competency-based stages (Transition to Discipline, Foundations of Discipline,
Core of Discipline, and Transition to Practice).

Successful candidates should demonstrate clinical competence, academic
aptitude, excellent communication and collaboration skills, have a keen
interest in child health and commitment to the care of children.

**Selection Criteria for IMGs**

Candidates must meet the published provincial restrictions (available at
McMaster University Overview).

Graduation from medical school within the past 3 years OR graduation from
medical school within the past 10 years AND active medical practice/residency
or fellowship within the past 3 years is highly preferred.

Success at the Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Examination Part I (from
2019 onwards) is mandatory.

IMGs must provide scores from National Assessment Collaboration (NAC)
Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE) conducted by provincial IMG
assessment programs.

Interest in Pediatrics: Preference will be given to candidates with documented
successful additional experience in pediatrics beyond the regular medical
school exposure. Examples include undergraduate pediatric electives,
postgraduate training in pediatrics and focused work or scholarly experience
in child health.

Preference will be given to candidates who can demonstrate familiarity with
the Canadian or North American health care system. Examples include formal
medical training or practice in a Canadian or American jurisdiction (Canadian
experience preferred). Research experience in Canada and clinical
observorships are an asset but considered less valuable than training or work
experience.

Reference letters must be dated within the last 2 years. Undated reference
letters will not be accepted.

## Program goals

Mission: To foster expert and clinically excellent pediatricians who provide
care for children and youth nationally and internationally.

Goals: To train expert clinicians in the care of children. To produce clinical
leaders with skills in education, advocacy and research in the field of
Pediatrics. To foster a supportive environment in which resident wellness is
cultivated.

Our program is committed to providing the best education possible for our
residents, teaching skills in the areas of clinical medicine, research and
education.

## Selection process goals

  1. Identify applicants who have a demonstrated interest in pediatrics and those who will develop into excellent pediatricians.
  2. Identify applicants who are active and engaged learners, and who work well in multi- disciplinary environments.
  3. Identify applicants who show skill and empathy in the care of children and their families, as well as their social contexts.
  4. Identify applicants who demonstrate a growth mindset and show potential in becoming innovators in research, advocacy and education.
  5. Identify and support the training of applicants who identify as Black, Indigenous, or members of other racialized groups, and others who experience systemic oppression such as 2SLGBTQIA+ people, people living with disabilities, and other equity-deserving and underrepresented groups.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our file review team is composed of the Program
Director, Associate Program Directors, Program Administrators, Lead Residents,
members of the Residency Program Committee (RPC) as well as selected residents
and faculty.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 201 - 400  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We evaluate content including scholarly work, advocacy, medical education, leadership, community involvement, and electives as well as other methods of demonstrating interest/commitment to pediatrics.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Clinical rotations, particularly in pediatrics or related disciplines.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  MCCQE 1 and NAC OSCE as outlined above   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Community involvement, advocacy, leadership and personal interests   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Holds leadership position in student or community organizations   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Professionalism, interpersonal skills and academic aptitude   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest and knowledge of program and location, demonstrates insight into potential contributions and challenges   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Professionalism and interpersonal skills, demonstrated interest in pediatrics   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Shows potential and interest in research and other scholarly work   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic Performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We recognize the restrictions that the COVID-19
pandemic placed on many candidates in terms of limited opportunities to travel
or engage in external electives and acknowledge this during our selection
process.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  We conduct Multiple Mini Interviews (MMI) including some situational
stations and some stations reflecting on personal attributes. Each station is
approximately 8 minutes and involves 2 interviewers. This is in addition to a
program information session and question and answer session with program
representatives.  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Proven ability to work and provide patient care in a multi-disciplinary environment   
Collegiality |  Demonstrates ability to navigate inter professional conflict and interactions respectfully.   
Communication skills |  Oral and written abilities in English   
Health advocacy |  Understanding of advocacy principles and their application to clinical environment and broader community   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated interest in the care of children and their families   
Interest in the program |  Interest in training in Southern Ontario, and knowledge/interest in the program   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrates skills in organization, team management and/or conflict resolution   
Professionalism |  Correspondence and interactions with staff, residents and administrative staff   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this component during interviews   
Other interview component(s) |  Learner self-assessment, especially demonstrates the ability to reflect on past experiences and learn from them.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Welcome to the McMaster University Pediatric Residency Program! The program is
committed to providing exceptional, flexible training in clinical pediatrics,
advocacy, scholarly work and education. Residents benefit from our faculty's
collegial approach and broad expertise, enabling trainees to thrive as they
prepare for a career in pediatric medicine or its subspecialties. The
Pediatric Residency Program accepts 10-12 residents per year from various
entry streams.

Residents play a pivotal role, alongside the faculty, to continue to improve
and vitalize the program. Their opinions are highly valued, and we depend on
resident involvement as part of continuous program quality improvement, and to
maintain high morale and pride amongst the residents.

Supporting residents is a priority for our faculty who welcome the opportunity
to provide clinical, research and educational mentorship. The residents
recognize the collegiality of the faculty and close resident-faculty
interaction as a major strength of the program.

McMaster Children’s Hospital serves a population of over 2.3 million people,
the second largest catchment area in Ontario. All pediatric subspecialties are
represented within our Department of Pediatrics, with a wide variety of
expertise amongst faculty. Residents obtain exposure to a diverse spectrum of
diseases from common problems encountered in general pediatrics, to all
subspecialties and referrals from surrounding communities.

A unique undergraduate program at McMaster allows extensive involvement by
pediatric residents. Many of our residents teach formal clinical skills to the
undergraduate class and are acknowledged by students as outstanding teachers.
Residents receive training and coaching in developing their skills as a
teacher, and have the opportunity to participate in a rotation in their senior
years focused on teaching skills and medical education principles.

McMaster University is the home of many of the world experts in evidence-based
medicine. Residents in the training program can expect to receive outstanding
formal training and critical appraisal skills through Clinical Teaching Unit
(CTU rounds), Academic Half Day, Journal Clubs, subspecialty teaching rounds,
resident teaching sessions and our unique Longitudinal CanMEDS Competencies
(LCC) curriculum focused on the development of non-medical expert core CanMEDS
competencies. Through their clinical rotations, residents learn to use
literature in the daily management of patients, providing them lifelong
learning skills that will make them better physicians.

Social accountability is emphasized within the program. McMaster was one of
the first pediatric residency programs to initiate a unique Social Pediatrics
rotation, with well-established connections with community partners and
advocacy programs.

There are strong research faculty and supports at McMaster committed to
promoting resident scholarly activities. The Residency Research Committee is
composed of faculty who help facilitate resident research and scholarly
projects, and host the annual McMaster Child Health Research Day. There is
competitive funding available for resident projects through the Pediatric
Residency Program, Department of Pediatrics Endowment Fund, and the
Postgraduate Office. There is available protected time for research during the
residency program. Funding for annual conferences and learning opportunities
is available through the program.

The program is also known for its innovation and leadership in educational and
quality improvement scholarship. Our Social Pediatrics rotation, unique
Transition to Senior Resident curriculum, wellness supports and mentorship
initiatives are all a result of resident-driven educational scholarship.
Residents benefit from career counselling and transition to practice
curriculum throughout all years of training, twice annual resident retreats
including an annual overnight retreat, and multiple social and wellness
activities throughout the year. We have a robust wellness curriculum with
regularly embedded wellness topics throughout Academic Half Day, as well as
'Treats & Talks’ sessions facilitated by a Resident Affairs counsellor and a
unique Resident Support Network. Residents have multiple opportunities in the
program to participate in teaching activities, scholarly projects, advocacy,
committee work, leadership roles, curriculum development and resident
selection.

Along with all pediatric residency programs in Canada, our program
transitioned to Competency Based Medical Education in July 2021. This
curriculum ensures that all residents completing the program receive an
excellent foundation in pediatrics that will prepare them for any career they
may eventually choose. The structure of the 4-year program is designed to
facilitate graduated responsibility and flexibility in training. Our program
allows for ample elective and selective time, allowing residents to address
individual learning objectives and prepare themselves for their selected
career choice. All residents have elective time in Core and Transition to
Practice stages (2nd to 4th year). Residents may participate in global health
experiences during these electives, with global health training opportunities
and mentorship within the department and the university for all residents.
There is also significant flexibility through Integrated Pediatrics (IP)
blocks, allowing residents to return to clinical areas for more experience and
to explore unique supplementary clinical opportunities.

We feel it is essential for residents to be exposed to general consulting
pediatric practice in the community setting, thus there are mandatory
community rotations in the program. Hamilton has many smaller communities
within an hour of the city (including Brampton, Niagara, Kitchener- Waterloo
and Brantford), with strong educational links to these communities allowing
for valuable learning experiences.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Pediatric Training Program: Curriculum**

The Pediatric Residency Program focuses on providing excellent training in all
aspects of pediatrics so that trainees may pursue either community consulting
pediatrics or a pediatric subspecialty. The program provides broad-based
clinical and academic training in pediatrics with the goal of creating the
foundation required for practice of general and subspecialty pediatrics.

The program competencies are developed around the [7 CanMEDS
roles](https://canmeds.royalcollege.ca/en/framework).

The work environment is friendly and supportive. The program has a well-
established Academic Coach system, Competence Committee and a variety of
mentorship programs to support residents throughout their training.

**Transition to Discipline ~3 blocks**

Multiweek orientation 'bootcamp' will provide residents with multiple learning
opportunities and a supported transition to residency including:

  * Orientation to program, clinical environment, and McMaster University
  * Clinical orientation and opportunity to practice pediatric history-taking & physical examination skills
  * Recognition and management of common pediatric problems, newborn examination and key foundational clinical skills
  * Opportunities to network and get to know peers, other residents and faculty in relaxed, collegial setting
  * Introduction to Competency Based Medical Education (CBME) including growth mindset and competence committee, and unique aspects of the program
  * Neonatal Resuscitation Program (NRP)
  * Pediatric Advanced Life Support Program (PALS)

Clinical rotations during this stage of training include:

  * Clinical Teaching Unit (CTU) at McMaster Children's Hospital
  * Community pediatrics in local community hospital OR Pediatric Emergency Medicine
  * An introduction to a pediatric subspecialty - clinics and inpatient exposure
  * Weekend daytime call shifts on CTU

**Foundations of Training ~10-11 blocks**

This stage of training will include clinical rotations in the following areas:

  * Clinical Teaching Unit (CTU) at McMaster Children's Hospital and Level II Nursery at St Joseph's Healthcare, Hamilton
  * Community Pediatrics, in local community hospital, with focus on Level II nursery care
  * Pediatric Emergency Medicine at McMaster Children's Hospital
  * Pediatric Subspecialties including outpatient clinics and inpatients: 
    * Pediatric Neurology (2 weeks)
    * Pediatric Rheumatology (2 weeks)
    * Pediatric Infectious Diseases (4 weeks)
    * Pediatric Hematology/Oncology (4weeks)
    * Pediatric General Surgery (2 weeks)
    * Introduction to Pediatric Critical Care and Neonatal Intensive Care (2 weeks)

  * Social Pediatrics with focus on structural/social determinants of health and advocacy skill development (4 weeks)
  * Junior Night float blocks (6-8 weeks total)

Curriculum and educational opportunities include:

  * Research/Scholarly Project bootcamp – research methodology and development of a proposal for a scholarly project
  * Neonatal and pediatric procedural skills workshops
  * Complex care skills workshop
  * Communication skills workshop
  * Critical appraisal, Quality Improvement and Patient Safety curriculum
  * Simulation training focused on procedural and clinical skills

**Core of Discipline ~30 blocks**

This is a senior resident stage, with increasing patient care and teaching
responsibility on the general pediatric ward, consulting in the Emergency
Department, and integrated critical care exposure. This is a time to
consolidate the trainee's general pediatric experience with opportunity for
more subspecialty rotations as well as generous elective and 'Integrated
Pediatric' time, planned in collaboration with the resident's academic coach
to meet individual learning goals.

 Clinical rotations during this stage of training include:

  * Pediatric Critical Care Medicine (8 weeks total)
  * Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (Level III Nursery) (8 weeks total)
  * Pediatric Emergency Medicine (4 weeks)
  * Clinical Teaching Unit (CTU) in Senior Resident role (4 weeks)
  * Community pediatrics in local community hospital including rural/remote opportunities
  * Anaesthesia (2 weeks)
  * Pediatric mental health (4 weeks)
  * Pediatric Subspecialties 
    * Adolescent medicine (4 weeks)
    * Pediatric Cardiology (4 weeks)
    * Developmental Pediatrics (4 weeks)
    * Pediatric Endocrinology (4 weeks)
    * Pediatric Gastroenterology (4 weeks)
    * Genetics/metabolics (4 weeks)
    * Child Maltreatment (4 weeks)
    * Pediatric Nephrology (4 weeks)
    * Pediatric Respirology (4 weeks)

  * Senior Night float in 2-week blocks in both CTU and Subspecialty/Critical Care Electives (12 weeks total)
  * Integrated Pediatrics - selective opportunities planned in collaboration with resident's Academic Coach to meet individual learning goals.

 Learning and other clinical activities throughout this stage of training:

  * Support for completion of scholarly project
  * Resident Continuity clinic in academic pediatric medicine or community pediatrics setting
  * Teaching skills and multiple opportunities to engage in teaching junior learners and peers
  * Neonatal and Pediatric procedural skills workshops
  * Complex care skills workshop
  * Communication skills workshop
  * Critical appraisal, Quality Improvement and Patient Safety curriculum
  * Simulation training focused on procedural and clinical skills

**Transition to Practice (TTP) stage ~7 blocks**

Clinical rotations include:

  * Clinical Teaching Unit (CTU) at McMaster Children's Hospital - in role of Junior Attending
  * Quality of Life and Advanced Care team (Pediatric Palliative Care)
  * Pediatric Complex Care
  * Level II Nursery
  * Community pediatrics in local community hospital
  * Senior Night Float in 2-week blocks in both CTU and Subspecialty/Critical Care
  * Electives
  * Integrated Pediatrics - selective opportunities planned in collaboration with resident's Academic Coach to meet individual learning goals

Learning and other clinical activities throughout this stage of training:

  * Resident Continuity clinic in academic pediatric medicine or community pediatrics setting
  * Teaching skills and multiple opportunities to engage in teaching junior learners and peers
  * Patient Safety / Quality Improvement curriculum
  * Formal curriculum to support transition to practice including: practice management, financial aspects and billing, mentorship

**Research and Scholarly Work**

The Residency Program Committee believes research and scholarly work to be an
essential part of the residency-training program. It is expected that all
pediatric trainees will complete at least one scholarly project during their
training. Research 'Bootcamp' held throughout Foundations stage will address
foundational principles of research, and Critical Appraisal curriculum and
monthly Research Roundtables support residents in their scholarly work.
Residents may choose to do a short or long-term project on advocacy, quality
improvement, medical education, clinical or basic science research.
Supervision and mentorship are offered by faculty members and by the Residency
Research Committee. Residents may schedule protected research time into their
rotations longitudinally or use their Integrated Pediatric selective or
elective time to work on their scholarly project.

**Educational Activities**

All incoming residents will participate in a multiweek orientation bootcamp,
as outlined above to support their transition to residency.

The program provides time for resident learning using a format of seminars,
lectures, workshops, interactive discussions and journal clubs. The curriculum
is planned by the Residency Program Committee with resident and faculty input.

Protected teaching times include monthly research rounds, weekly Departmental
Grand Rounds and Academic Half Days on Wednesday afternoons (total of 4.5
hours per week). The curriculum for the Academic Half Day follows a four-year
cycle with each session led by an experienced faculty member. Resident- led
teaching including teaching around Canadian Paediatric Society practice points
and position statements, as well as senior teaching around key practical
topics and physical exam skills are also integrated within academic half-day.
There are various weekly subspecialty seminars in addition to Journal Clubs,
bedside and senior-directed teaching. Residents also have scheduled
administrative time.

A robust pediatric simulation curriculum runs for residents in all stages of
training exploring acute care scenarios. Annual skills workshops are also
integrated into resident curriculum exploring neonatal procedures, acute care
procedures, complex care procedures and management, physical examination and
communication skills. There are monthly small group discussions (LCC-
Longitudinal CanMEDS Competencies) that focus on discussion and development of
CanMEDS roles in a supported environment. There is a comprehensive transition
to practice curriculum for final year residents that incorporates some
dedicated time for clinical review sessions and practical skills for entry
into practice.

Residents are encouraged and financially supported to participate in external
Continuing Medical Education (CME) activities with funding for conferences,
courses and virtual learning available through the program.

**Call:**

All residents participate in on-call responsibilities primarily through a
night float model while at the McMaster site, allowing for better patient
continuity and resident wellness. This includes residents being on call on
alternate evenings (4:30pm to 8:00am) for 2 –weeks at a time spread throughout
the year. This schedule minimizes time away from scheduled daytime training
experiences and allows for future planning of after hours responsibilities.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Primary Training Sites** :

McMaster Children's Hospital - for most rotations

Community sites (Brampton, Kitchener-Waterloo, Niagara, Brantford, Burlington,
Oakville)

St. Joseph's Healthcare, Hamilton (Level II nursery)

Ron Joyce Children's Health Centre (developmental pediatrics and mental
health)



**Descriptions:**

McMaster Children's Hospital provides primary, secondary and tertiary care to
the local community and the region. Most rotations are done at McMaster
Children's Hospital, the children's hospital with the second largest
population catchment in Ontario, serving 2.3 million people. There is a very
busy emergency department and general pediatrics wards where common problems
are seen in significant volumes. In addition, all pediatric subspecialties
exist at McMaster Children's Hospital which ensure excellent learning
opportunities from patient volume and variety.

Rotations in consultative pediatrics with community pediatricians in outlying
communities are an integral part of the program. Funding has allowed us to
offer greater community experiences to all residents in the program. We have
strong educational alliances with multiple communities including: Kitchener-
Waterloo, Brampton, Brantford, St. Catharines/Niagara, Oakville, and
Burlington.

A Level II nursery rotation is done at St. Joseph's Healthcare, also located
in Hamilton. This nursery is staffed by academic general pediatricians who
have experience facilitating excellent learning opportunities for residents,
allowing for emerging independence in senior rotations.

Developmental Pediatrics along with mental health services are located nearby
at Ron Joyce Children's Health Centre, a state-of-the-art institution built in
2015 offering the unique co- location of multiple programs and healthcare
teams.

* * *

# Additional Information

Quick Facts

  * Residents may undertake inter-provincial and international electives. Global health mentorship and pre-departure training as well as limited competitive funding for global health electives are available
  * Assessment and Verification Period (AVP) is a mandatory component of residency transition for all IMGs in Ontario. This will overlap with the Transition to Discipline stage, and facilitated in a supportive learning environment.
  * For residents interested in research, once they have started their residency, they can apply for the Clinical Investigator Program (CIP). CIP training involves protected time for research including graduate or postdoctoral research studies, that must be coordinated with specialty or subspecialty training plans to fulfill McMaster CIP and Royal College of Physicians & Surgeons of Canada training objectives. CIP training provides individualized mentorship in research and promotes the development of broad and specialized research knowledge, skills and attitudes that are important for future clinician investigators.



**Competency-Based Medical Education: Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons
of Canada**

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by
Design](https://www.royalcollege.ca/content/dam/documents/accreditation/competence-
by-design/directory/cbd-cheat-sheet-e.pdf) (CBD) aims to enhance patient care
by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving patient
needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education process.

CBD uses competencies rather than time as the basis for progression. Residency
programs are broken down into
[stages](https://canmeds.royalcollege.ca/en/milestones), and each stage will
have a series of milestones based on required competencies. These milestones
will create more targeted learning outcomes and involve more frequent,
formative assessments within the clinical workplace to ensure residents are
developing and receiving feedback on the skills they need. Stages of pediatric
training are further outlined in the Program Curriculum section as Pediatrics
programs across Canada formally launched CBD curriculum in July 2021.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs will
continue to lead to Royal College approved certification. Certification for
trainees in both CBD and traditional programs will include the completion of a
Royal College examination; however, residents in CBD programs will also be
assessed against program milestones throughout their training. Within a CBD
program, all milestones (documented within an electronic portfolio) and the
Royal College examination must be successfully completed to achieve
certification.

* * *

# FAQ

**How do I meet with the program director and/or  Lead Residents to learn more
about the program or ask questions?**

We host multiple information sessions about the program throughout the year.
Please see our R1 Match program information on the McMaster [PGME
website](https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/) for
session details once they are finalized. Or, contact our Program
Administrators ([peded@mcmaster.ca](mailto:peded@mcmaster.ca)). We highly
encourage all applicants to learn more about our program and selection process
from these sessions.

Question and answer sessions about the program are held with the Program
Director, Associate Program Directors and Lead Residents on select Wednesdays
each month starting in September until January from 12:15 p.m. to 12:45 p.m.
Please contact our Program Administrators
([peded@mcmaster.ca](mailto:peded@mcmaster.ca)) for more information.

Please see the [CANPREPP: Events Calendar](https://canprepp.ca/) for
additional information about program information sessions and 'ask a resident'
evening sessions for McMaster Pediatrics and other programs across Canada.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26718?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26718