#  University of Toronto - Neurosurgery - Toronto

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on September 24, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Nir Lipsman  

Address Division of Neurosurgery  
Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre  
2075 Bayview Ave., Room A1 39  
Toronto, Ontario, M4N 3M5  

Websites of Interest [ Toronto: The World at Your Doorstep
](https://urldefense.com/v3/__https://youtu.be/ElmVUKUgVig__;!!CjcC7IQ!eCZBHQ96JcM4qhHl6CBerTkyN30eGpUUoytycGWhhlDHCUtHXeb6fMz9IpEx55-Y$)  
[ PGME at U of T ](https://pgme.utoronto.ca/)  
[ Neurosurgery ](https://surgery.utoronto.ca/residency-division-neurosurgery)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: Program Director

Name: Dr. Nir Lipsman

Title: Program Director

Email: nir.lipsman@sunnybrook.ca

  

Name: Ms. Alicia Triantafilou

Title: Interim Program Administrator

Email: neurosurgery.residency@utoronto.ca

Phone: 416-480-6100 x62472

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion**  
All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of the
University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

  
**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)  
** The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.  
  
_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

# ** **

**Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada**

Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada:  Applying competency-based
practices to residency education

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CMBE)  in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called Competence by design
(CBD), aims to enhance patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong
learning with evolving patient needs and empowering learners to more fully
engage in their education process.

CBD will use time as a framework rather than the basis for progression.  It is
not anticipated that the duration of training will change for the majority of
trainees.  Residency programs will be broken down into stages, and each stage
will have a series of milestones based on required competencies. These
milestones will create more targeted learning outcomes and involve more
frequent, formative assessments within the clinical workplace to ensure
residents are developing and receiving feedback on the skills they need.

The Royal College anticipates that all specialty and subspecialty programs in
Canada will adopt CBD in gradual phases.  All disciplines have been divided
into seven cohort groups, each of which will adopt CBD at different times.
National implementation of CBD within certain, individual programs has
commenced in July 2017, with more disciplines to follow in subsequent years.

Neurosurgery has implemented these changes as of July of 2019.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs.  All CBD programs (and
traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification.  Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional
programs will include the completion of a Royal College examination; however,
residents in CBD programs will also be assessed against program milestones
throughout their training.  Within a CBD program, all milestones (documented
within an electronic portfolio) and the Royal College examination must be
successfully completed to achieve certification.

For more information, please contact cbd@royalcollege.ca.

* * *

# Return of Service

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Language assessment document accepted:  **TOEFL-iBT

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:**  7 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Occupational English Test (OET)
-Medicine

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum score of 9 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Letter of language proficiency*

*Alternatively, candidates can submit a printout from the [World Directory of Medical Schools](http://www.wdoms.org/) which clearly states that the language of instruction is English or French.

The **IELTS Indicator**  will be accepted as a substitute for the Academic
Version of the IELTS.

The **TOEFL iBT Home Edition**  will be accepted as a substitute for the TOEFL
iBT.

Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site. Please
review specific program descriptions for more information.

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score

  * **Date/milestone assessment submission required:**  File review opening
  * **Requirement:  **Mandatory

For more information on the MCCQE Part 1 click on the following link
<https://www.mcc.ca/examinations/mccqe-part-i/>

NAC

* Score

  * **Date/milestone assessment submission required:  **File review opening
  * **Requirement:  **Mandatory with exceptions*

* MCCQE part II can be used to apply instead of the NAC

For more information on the NAC OSCE click on the following link [National Assessment Collaboration | Medical Council of Canada](http://mcc.ca/examinations/nac-overview/)

  * **Date/milestone assessment submission required:  **File review opening
  * **Requirement:  **Mandatory with exceptions*

* MCCQE part II can be used to apply instead of the NAC

For more information on the NAC OSCE click on the following link [National Assessment Collaboration | Medical Council of Canada](http://mcc.ca/examinations/nac-overview/)

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. If possible, one or more letters from
a faculty member in Neurosurgery is helpful but not required.

We are looking for very strong reference letters, ideally based on referee's
direct observation of the applicant's performance in a clinical setting with
responsibilities at least equivalent to a senior medical student, within the
last 2 years.

We will accept a reference from a senior resident but faculty references are
strongly preferred.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Photo required for memory aid

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

The letter is an opportunity for the candidate to describe personal
characteristics and information that are not elsewhere in the application
(education, research or references). Most importantly, the candidate must
explain why neurosurgery is their career choice and why the University of
Toronto would ideally suit their training requirements.

Maximum word count: 1000 (no minimum)  
  
_Important Note: Please address any gaps in training or remediation periods in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count._

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

The selection process below is carried out by the CaRMS Selection Committee,
which generally consists of up to 12 members: Program Director, Division
Chair, 7 faculty RPC representatives, 4 resident RPC representatives, plus 1
ad hoc invited faculty or resident member.



**File Review Process  (December):**

**What is assessed?** |  **Attributes assessed and relative weighting** |  **Applicants providing evidence of the following in the CaRMS application file will be prioritized for further consideration:**  
---|---|---  
Full CaRMS application, incl. provided reference letters |  * Academic achievement (33%)   * Interest in neurosurgery (33%)         * Reference letters (33%) |  *  Where available, university and medical school transcripts demonstrating high academic standing *  Where available, high scores on standardized medical examinations (e.g., NBME or MCCQE1) *  Academic awards and scholarships based on academic achievement *  Record of research achievement in neurosurgery *  North American neurosurgical experience, within the last 2 years, of at least 4 weeks in total duration in a neurosurgical clinical teaching unit or equivalent with direct exposure to a neurosurgery residency program, involving actual clinical responsibilities in an in-patient setting with on-call responsibilities.   *  Very strong reference letters - see "Reference documents" for details.  
  
Based on this assessment, at the end of the file review process, all
candidates who have received sufficient endorsement from at least a majority
of Committee members will be offered interviews. Interview offers will be sent
by early January.

**Interview Process  (January):**

**What is assessed?** |  **Attributes assessed and relative weighting** |  **Successful applicants will be able to demonstrate the following:**  
---|---|---  
Formal interviews, plus further review of full CaRMS application. |  * Interview performance (60%) * Academic achievement (15%) * Reference letters (25%)   |  * Strong general communication skills at the time of the interviews * Strong extemporaneous thought processing skills at the time of the interviews * Strong interpersonal skill and suitable temperament * Good judgement, guided by principles of ethics and compassion * Superior academic achievement as measured by grades, academic awards, or research accomplishment * Strong letters of reference Strong potential for success based on all application components and interview performance  
  
Based on the assessment above, at the end of the interview process, a final
ranking of all candidate will be made and submitted to CaRMS. The selection
committee reserves the right to adjust final rankings by consensus to address
issues of program priority or diversity.



* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: January 31-February 1, 2025  
  
All candidates felt to be competitive for a residency position will be invited
for a two-day virtual visit on January 31-February 1, 2025.  
  
The first day (Friday, January 31st), candidates will have the opportunity to
attend the virtual morning academic half day, followed by an information
session with the Chair and Program Director.  Depending on the number of
applicants invited for interview, some interviews may take place following the
information session.  
  
The second day (Saturday, February 1st is interview day and interviews will be
conducted virtually.  
  
Full details will be provided to the candidates closer to the interview date,
including important information regarding virtual interviews.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Each candidate will have five
15-minute interviews with faculty (7) and resident (4) members of the RPC,
plus 1 ad hoc invited faculty or resident member.  Interview themes can
include interest in neuroscience and neurosurgery, interpersonal skills and
conflict resolution, work/life balance, personal goals and research.  A
preliminary rank order is generated after the interviews are complete.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

The specific goals of our Program are to produce fully trained neurosurgeons
who

  * have passed the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons Specialty Examinations in Neurosurgery
  * are ready to assume the position of a consultant neurosurgeon
  * are clinically competent with:

o   excellent technical competence

o   excellent judgment

o   a thorough knowledge of related disciplines, including basic neuroscience,
clinical research methodology, neurology, neuropathology and neuroradiology

o   superior managerial, professional, communication, and health advocacy
skills

  * for those with academic research interests:

o   have obtained a higher research degree, such as an M.Sc. or Ph.D., in
order to develop research interest, ability and training

o   have teaching interest, ability and training

As such, our Program seeks a cohort of residents who have demonstrated
superior academic standing, strong work ethic, dedicated interest in
neurosurgery, strong interpersonal and communication skills, and
characteristics of empathy and compassion. These are the personal attributes
that are the foundation of an exemplary neurosurgeon and what we strive for in
our trainees.

## Selection process goals

Neurosurgery is a very demanding field and places stringent requirements on
candidates' intellect, stamina, emotional fortitude, interpersonal skills, and
ability to work under pressure. Given the high attrition rate seen in
neurosurgery training programs, it is essential that candidates clearly
demonstrate to the Selection Committee an adequate intellectual capacity,
demonstrated interest in neurosurgery, demonstration of an understanding of
what Canadian neurosurgery residency entails, with proven ability to work in a
Canadian neurosurgical clinical teaching unit environment. The applicant must
demonstrate that they have the potential to fulfill all CanMEDS competencies
required of a Canadian neurosurgeon.

## File review process

Review team composition : The CaRMS Selection Committee consists of 12
members: Program Director, Division Chair, 7 faculty RPC representatives, 4
resident RPC representatives, and 1 ad hoc invited faculty or resident member.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Academic awards and scholarships based on academic achievement.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We encourage applicants to have completed at least one elective in our discipline   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  High scores on standardized medical examinations.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Reviewed.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Reviewed.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Reviewed.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  See "Additional Documents" for details.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  See "Reference Documents" for details.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Record of research achievement in neurosurgery.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Demonstrating high academic standing.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  See Interview Process details above   
Collegiality |  See Interview Process details above   
Communication skills |  See Interview Process details above   
Health advocacy |  See Interview Process details above   
Interest in the discipline |  See Interview Process details above   
Interest in the program |  See Interview Process details above   
Leadership skills |  See Interview Process details above   
Professionalism |  See Interview Process details above   
Scholarly activities |  See Interview Process details above   
Other interview component(s) |  Full details provided in Interview Process section above.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Didactic Curriculum

The University of Toronto, Division of Neurosurgery, runs an active virtual
didactic curriculum for residents every Friday morning (Brain School). Time to
attend these teaching sessions is protected, with residents relieved of
clinical and on-call duties during this time, to facilitate their attendance.
Lectures are organized by topic and sub-specialty and led by faculty
representatives, and overseen by an educational and curriculum director.  The
curriculum consists of lectures, videos, mock oral examinations, and case
presentations and is a major component of neurosurgical education delivery.
Lecture presentations are stored on a webpage for neurosurgery residents and
is password protected. Residents studying for their written examinations or
preparing for their Royal College Examination will review these lecture notes
on a regular basis.

Quick Facts

The University of Toronto, Division of Neurosurgery has opportunity for
electives for its residents. Three to six month elective may be possible if
scheduling permits and planned in advance. This is usually taken during the
PGY-4 to 5 year level. It can be in a neurosurgical subject or a non-surgical
neuroscience topic. Examples of previous electives taken by residents include
Canadian private practice, academic neurosurgery in other North American or
international centres, and neurosurgical outreach in low income countries.

Currently, there are 32 residents enrolled in the University of Toronto
Neurosurgical Residency Training Program, 35 faculty members with 7 affiliated
neurosurgery scientists.

There are no mandatory rural rotations.



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 6 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

PGY-1 & 2 Surgical Foundations Objectives of Training

The Division of Neurosurgery is a participant in the Core Surgical Program at
the University of Toronto. The PGY-1 year consists of 4 weeks of Surgery and
Neurosurgery Prep Camp Orientation, 8 blocks of adult neurosurgery (includes
neurotrauma/neurocritical care), 2 blocks of pediatric neurosurgery, 2 blocks
of surgical elective (selected from neurosurgery-spine, orthopedic-spine,
vascular, thoracic, plastics or ENT), and 1 block of emergency medicine.  The
PGY-2 year consists of 2 blocks of neurocritical care, 2 blocks of Neurology,
and 9 blocks of neurosurgery.

Effective July 1, 2008 all University of Toronto PGY1 residents are required
to complete the web based PGCorEd core competency modules as part of their
residency program certification. These modules provide the foundation for the
non-Medical Expert roles for the Royal College of Physician and Surgeons of
Canada Specialty Programs.

These modules will be required for completion before the end of the PGY2 year.
Failure to complete the modules required by their program will delay
processing of their FITERs and may constitute professional misconduct.



PGY-3 to 6  
  

The total amount of clinical neurosurgical experience required by the
University of Toronto program and the Royal College is 42 months. Included in
the 42 months of clinical neurosurgery are 6 blocks on pediatric neurosurgery
and 13 blocks (12 months) as a Chief neurosurgical resident. Neurosurgical
residents rotate through neuropathology for 1 block during PGY5.

Residents are expected to pass the Royal College Foundation of Surgery
Examination in their PGY-2 year.  PGY1 and PGY2 residents attend the
Department of Surgery, Foundation of Surgery Lecture Series on Tuesday
mornings. Throughout the program, residents are expected to develop skills in
microsurgical techniques, spinal neurosurgery, cranial neurosurgery and
peripheral nerve and brachial plexus surgery. Financial support toward
attendance at academic conferences is provided, especially for residents whose
work has been accepted for presentation at the meeting.

  
  

Research and Courses  
  

The description of research training in the Division of Neurosurgery at the
University of Toronto can be found directly at the following source: Research
(<http://surgery.utoronto.ca/division-neurosurgery-research>)

Seminars and Other Formal Teaching Sessions

All residents have an opportunity to attend the Lougheed Microsurgical Course,
and the ATLS Course.

The weekly 3-hour didactic neurosurgical and basic science lecture curriculum
(Friday morning "Brain School") is supplemented with various formal rounds,
journal clubs hosted at faculty residences, seminars, and annual visiting
professorships.

The University of Toronto Surgical Skills Laboratory provides opportunities
for technical training in Core and Specialized Neurosurgery at the PGY-1 level
(see below), including an intensive "Neurosurgery Crash Course" held during
the month of July of the PGY1 year. Numerous practical anatomy and dissection
courses are held throughout the academic year for all residents.



PGY1 Prep Camp

As of July 1, 2013, the Department of Surgery and University of Toronto
Surgical Skill Centre located at Mount Sinai Hospital introduced a new
curriculum format for technical skills training for PGY1 surgical residents.
The new curriculum focuses on a 2-week summer training session incorporating
both technical skill programs and didactic sessions.  All sessions are
relevant to the Royal College CANMEDS design.

The Prep Camp program includes the following:

Each day begins at 0800 hrs with a 1 hr didactic lecture followed by hands on
sessions in the Surgical Lab from 0900-1400 hrs.  Between 1400-1600 hrs, this
time is dedicated to independent practice and research in education
opportunities within the Surgical Lab environs.  Instructors for the summer
sessions include nurses, residents, faculty, industry and associate health
care partners.



PGY1 Neurosurgery Crash Course

Every summer, the Division of Neurosurgery runs an intensive practical
introductory course for our new PGY1s to learn about the acute management of
important neurosurgical conditions.  This is taught by senior residents and
prepares our new residents for the acuity of patients seen in neurosurgery.

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

There are 35 neurosurgeons at the University of Toronto. The Program is
conducted at 4 clinical sites (Toronto Western Hospital, St. Michael’s
Hospital, Sunnybrook Hospital, and SickKids Hospital), each with its own
personality and profile of excellence, performing over 6000 cases per year,
and with international leaders in all subspecialties. The breadth, size, and
diversity of our Program allow us to tailor every resident’s training to fit
their individual career goals and aspirations. Residents are exposed to the
following subspecialties during their training: Epilepsy (80 adult, 80 peds
cases annually); Functional (70 neuromodulation & 50 non-neuromodulation cases
annually); Oncology (1000 brain & spinal tumours cases per year); Pediatrics
(over 500 cases annually); Radiosurgery (200 Gamma Knife cases annually),
Skull Base (over 300 cases per year); Spine (over 2000 cases annually); Trauma
(Sunnybrook, St. Michael’s, and SickKids each serve as the largest Level 1
trauma centres in Ontario); Vascular and Endovascular (over 250 open vascular
and 500 neuroendovascular cases annually).



This program places special emphasis on the training of neurosurgeons for
academic careers. Those interested in an academic career will be encouraged to
have at least a two year research experience. Opportunities are available to
do research leading to the M.Sc. or Ph.D. degree in the Department of
Surgery's Surgeon Scientist Program <https://surgery.utoronto.ca/surgeon-
scientist-training-program>

For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>

* * *

# Additional Information

**Pre-residency Orientation Programs**

All IMG candidates accepted to all residency programs will be required to
complete either the Pre-Residency Program (PRP) or the Pre-Residency Program
for Family Medicine (PRPFM) prior to entering into a residency program.
Matched IMGs will be expected to attend these programs in Toronto, several
weeks in advance of the start of their residency program. In some cases, this
may result in a delay of the start date of the residency. Additional
information on the PRP and PRP FM programs can be found at the following link:
[Touchstone Institute](http://www.touchstoneinstitute.ca/).

**Assessment Verification Period**

All IMG candidates accepted to residency training programs will be required to
undergo an Assessment Verification Period (AVP). This assessment period is
normally 12 weeks in length and is required by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Ontario to obtain an educational license to enter a residency
program. [CPSO – International Medical Graduates
(IMGs)](https://www.cpso.on.ca/Physicians/Registration/International-Medical-
Graduates).

IMGs that have failed an AVP and are reapplying through CaRMS are ineligible
to apply for training in the same specialty in Ontario but may apply to a
different specialty in the first and/or second iteration. IMGs who have
withdrawn from a program prior to completion of an AVP must declare so upon
application.

**Additional Ontario Information:**

  1. **Permanent Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education office in order to comply with current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry.
  2. **Matched applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data file to the matched university’s postgraduate education office. The postgraduate office will share the information as needed, but not limited to the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:**  The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure to meet or provide proof**  of any of the stated requirements may result in applicant file being removed at any point during the match.

Further information may be obtained by contacting
[neurosurgery.residency@utoronto.ca](mailto:neurosurgery.residency@utoronto.ca).
The description of the Neurosurgical Training Program at the University of
Toronto for current and prospective residents in neurosurgery is available at
the following source: Division of Neurosurgery
(<https://surgery.utoronto.ca/residency-division-neurosurgery>)



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27392?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27392