#  Western University - Psychiatry - London  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 27, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. James Ross  

Address Psychiatry  
London Health Sciences Centre - Victoria Hospital  
800 Commissioners Road E., Zone B, 8th Floor, B8-102  
London, Ontario, N6A 5W9  

Websites of Interest [ Department of Psychiatry at Western University
](https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/psychiatry/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. James Ross

Title: Program Director

  

Name: Dr. Jonathan Gregory

Title: Associate Program Director

  

Name: Dr. Kristina Levang

Title: Associate Program Director - Windsor Site

  

Name: Dr. Sabrina Botsford

Title: Assistant Program Director - Windsor Site

  

Name: Bela Franze

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: PGEPsychiatry@lhsc.on.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Information sessions are being held in the Fall of 2024 (October/November).
Candidates will have the opportunity to learn about the Psychiatry Residency
Program (London and Windsor), ask questions, and meet our residents and
program directors.

For the CaRMS Town Hall Event registration and additional details about our
program, please click
[here](https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/psychiatry/education/postgraduate/future_residents/carms.html).

* * *

# Return of Service

 **This program has a return of service obligation attached to it.   Please
review the provincial criteria for more information: **
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Western University offers Psychiatry residency positions at two separate
sites:

London site -  9 training spots (6 CMG / 3 IMG)

Windsor site - 4 training spots (3 CMG / 1 IMG)

Organizationally, both sites are part of one program and CaRMS interviews for
both sites will be conducted together.  However, there is a separate
application for each site.  You may apply to one or both sites.

  * Ratio of residents to faculty is  favourable.
    * Residents can expect to have 1:1 supervision on most rotations with supervisors who are dedicated to medical education.  
    * The medium size of the program allows for more direct supervision yet provides residents with exposure to the full breadth of psychiatric practice available in a larger academic centre
    * The number of residents in the program fosters a sense of community and camaraderie within the resident body

  * Rotation selection is flexible with up to 16 blocks of senior electives in PGY 4-5, elective time in PGY1 and varying clinic options within many of the core rotations.

  * Residents take a very active and substantive role in the continuous quality improvement of the program. Residents meet with the program director monthly and feedback is continuously incorporated into change.

  * London is a medium-sized city that is small enough to be comfortable and affordable, but also large enough to have many big city amenities including excellent restaurants, live theatre, live music, and beautiful natural resources such as parks, conservation areas, and riverfront trails.

  * Information about tourism and upcoming events in London can be found at http://www.londontourism.ca

  * Opportunities and living in London created by members of the department https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/psychiatry/about_us/opportunities.html

  * Royal College accredited program (Accredited with 2-year follow-up)

  * Our department has PGY5-PGY6 subspecialty residency programs in child and adolescent psychiatry and geriatric psychiatry.

  * Interprovincial electives can be taken in the PGY-1, PGY-4 and PGY-5 years

  * International electives can be taken in PGY-4 and PGY-5 years.

Many residents choose to make London their home after training by joining the
faculty or becoming a community consultant. Employment opportunities are
plentiful in London and surrounding areas in both community and academic
settings. Remuneration models are highly competitive with other regions in
Ontario.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided (by submitting one
of the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.
Failure to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.
No other forms of verification are acceptable.  

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of card must be provided and legible.

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

Applicants must be able to communicate in the language of instruction and
patient care of the matching school.

Must provide proof of English language proficiency through **ONE** of the
following:

## **Submit one of the following documents to verify your language
proficiency:**

• IELTS  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  

**Language assessment document accepted:**  TOEFL-iBT, TOEFL-iBT Home Edition
accepted

**Document validity (not expired) by** : Must be valid up to the assignment of
applications and documents deadline

**Minimum score:**  93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section

** **

**Language assessment document accepted:** IELTS Academic

**Document validity (not expired) by:**  Must be valid up to the assignment of
applications and documents deadline

**Minimum score:** 7 in each component



**Language assessment document accepted:** Occupational English Test (OET)
-Medicine

**Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to the assignment of
applications and documents deadline

**Minimum score:** Minimum grade of B in each component



**Language assessment document accepted:** Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to the assignment of
applications and documents deadline

**Minimum score:** Minimum score of 9 in each component

## **Letter of language proficiency**

Candidates can submit a printout from the  [World Directory of Medical
Schools](http://www.wdoms.org/) which clearly states that the language of
instruction is English.

If the World Directory of Medical Schools directory does not indicate clearly
that the language of instruction is solely English, a letter of language
proficiency is a letter from your Dean attesting that your medical school
program of instruction was completed solely in English.

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

Reference documents

Required

Applicant support form  Number requested: 3

Traditional letters of reference are no longer accepted for this program. Your
referee must complete the required structured reference form. Please include
this link in your reference request:
<https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/2025-Psychiatry-Structured-Reference-Letter-EN.pdf>

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

In the personal letter, please outline:

1\. Why psychiatry interests you?

2\. What experiences prepare you to practice psychiatry?

3\. Describe any challenges or adversity you have overcome in becoming a
doctor and how you overcame them?

4\. What does EDI in psychiatry mean to you, whether in terms of personal
experiences, advocacy work or reflection?

5\. What doubts you have about becoming a psychiatrist?

**Our program does not accept personal letters with any content generated by
AI programs such as ChatGPT. Spelling and grammar check is acceptable.
****Please write a line in your letter stating that no AI was used in the
creation of the content of your personal letter.**

No minimum/1000 word maximum.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

We will NOT accept any documents sent directly to our office.  We will only
consider references and supporting documents submitted to the CaRMS site.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025
  * January 24, 2025
  * January 29, 2025

Details regarding interview dates:

#### Candidates selected for interviews will be contacted by email.
Candidates who are not offered interviews will not be contacted.

#### Interviews will be scheduled in order of receipt of confirmation email by
the candidate.





Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: For more information regarding the
Residency Training Program in Psychiatry at Western applicants are encouraged
to visit our website:
<https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/psychiatry/education/postgraduate/index.html>  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Our program is looking for candidates who have excellent interpersonal skills,
good clinical judgment, high ethical and professional standards, and a genuine
interest in psychiatry. Selection is based on the dossier you submit, as well
as the interviews on CaRMS day. The interview segment is mandatory. The
strength of the applicants' academic record and interest in psychiatry, as
represented by the Medical Student Performance Record, medical school
transcript, the personal letter, letters of reference, and the interview all
factor into the ranking of candidates. A candidate's experience in overcoming
adversity and their connection with a particular community is also considered
in the review of a candidate's profile, where relevant.



## Program goals

The department of Psychiatry at the Schulich School of Medicine & Dentistry,
Western University is committed to providing residents with a comprehensive
training program that will prepare them to be exceptional psychiatrists in
whatever practice setting they choose.  We aim to provide residents with a
multifaceted and balanced educational experience that emphasizes biological,
psychological, and sociocultural aspects of psychiatry practice and prepares
residents for lifelong learning.  Flexibility is prioritized so the residents
can customize their residency experience to suit their clinical and academic
interests.  We endeavor to foster the growth and development of our residents
so that they can be the psychiatrists they strive to be while meeting the
needs of our patients and society.



## Selection process goals

The Department of Psychiatry at Schulich School of Medicine & Dentistry at
Western University emphasizes a culture of collaboration, excellence and
compassion.  Our mission is to produce outstanding psychiatrists to serve the
community, to contribute to academic endeavours and to advance the field of
psychiatry.  We seek candidates who are curious to learn about the human mind
and who are compassionate in the face of the suffering of others.
Demonstrated pursuit of excellence in medicine through learning clinical
skills, teaching and research is essential to successful candidates.  Our
program aims to have a group of residents with a diversity of skills,
background experiences and interests that rounds out and strengthens our
program.

## File review process

Review team composition : The CaRMS committee consists of members of the
Residency Program Committee, other psychiatry faculty, and resident
representatives.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 401 - 600  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Extracurricular activities, evidence of leadership, research productivity   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Onsite electives are encouraged and are a strong feature of an application but are not a requirement   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Examination results are not directly used in all application reviews but may be taken into account within broader assessment of an applicant’s file   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of interest in a variety of activities demonstrating balance and well-roundedness   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of leadership potential   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evidence of lapses in professionalism   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Evidence of a genuine interest and understanding of psychiatry   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Evidence of superior performance in clinical activities   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Evidence of interest and productivity in research activities   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evidence of consistent performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: While onsite electives are encouraged and are a strong
feature of an application, they are not a requirement.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence of collaborative skills   
Collegiality |  Evidence of collegiality   
Communication skills |  Evidence of good communication skills   
Health advocacy |  Evidence of good health advocacy   
Interest in the discipline |  Evidence of genuine interest in psychiatry   
Interest in the program |  Evidence of genuine interest in the training program at Western   
Leadership skills |  Evidence of leadership potential   
Professionalism |  Evidence of professional behaviour   
Scholarly activities |  Evidence of research productivity   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * **Academics:**  

    * There is a favourable faculty to resident ratio, allowing for 1:1 supervision for residents.
    * We have excellent research supervisors and facilities including the Lawson Health Research Institute and The Brain and Mind Institute.  Western is a world leader in Neuroscience and Neuroimaging.
    * There is a Resident Research Track available for qualified and interested candidates.
    * There are frequent opportunities to get involved with the education of medical students at all stages of their training.
    * Residents take on a very active role in the continuous quality improvement of the program with resident representation on most departmental committees.

**Clinical Rotations:**

    * There is one block of orientation (with 2 weeks of introductory clinical experience) prior to the onset of service. This block is unique to our program.
    * The ECT / rTMS program provides opportunities for graded exposure throughout residency training.
    * There are opportunities for training experiences in settings unique to Canada, such as the Child & Parent Resource Institute (CPRI) and the First Episode Mood & Anxiety Program (FEMAP).
    * International electives are available for senior residents.
    * No mandatory rural rotations are required although rural rotations are fully supported and encouraged through the Distributed Education Network (DEN) and the Ontario Psychiatric Postgraduate Education Network (OPPEN). We are also developing elective opportunities in Northern Ontario. Many of our rotations incorporate aspects of working in surrounding communities.

**Teaching:**

    * We are a national leader in resident preparation for Royal College OSCE exams.  London is the site of the P. Chandarana London Psychiatry Review Course.
    * From PGY-2 to PGY-5, Thursdays are fully protected for educational activities.  This quantity of protected academic time compares favorably with other Canadian psychiatry residency programs.  Unique educational events include "Resident Rounds", a collaborative learning experience that focuses on discussion and debate about topics beyond the scope of the formal curriculum, and Psycho-legal Skills Workshops involving Western's law school.  New initiatives include formalized Cultural Psychiatry and Resident-as-Teacher curricula.

**Call:**

    * Graded on-call experience: a senior resident is always on call with junior residents for added teaching and support.  
    * Residents on call usually are exposed to Child and Adolescent cases throughout their training.



**Other details:**

    * We are a Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons accredited program (with review in 2025).
    * Royal College subspecialty training opportunities in Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Geriatric Psychiatry are available at Schulich. The PGY-5 year can be used as the first year of subspecialty training.
    * The Child and Adolescent Psychiatry program was one of the first to be accredited in Canada in 2012.  The Child and Adolescent subspecialty wellness curriculum was recognized as a Leading Practice/Innovation during accreditation in 2019 and has been adapted to the general residency program.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**TEACHING SITES**

**London Health**  **Sciences Centre (LHSC):****   **Is One of Canada’s
largest acute care teaching hospitals and includes Adult, Child and
Adolescent, Geriatric, and Emergency Psychiatry Services.

**St. Joseph’s Health Care (SJHC):  **Is a recognized leader in the delivery
of compassionate care.  The mental health division of St. Joseph's Health Care
operates **Parkwood Institute Mental Health Care Building**  in London,
providing specialized programs in Dual Diagnosis, ACT, Concurrent Disorders,
Geriatric Psychiatry and Complex Adult Mental Health. The **Southwest Centre
for Forensics Mental Health**  in St. Thomas.      **   **

**Child and Parent Resource Institute**  **(CPRI)** : Offers services with an
emphasis on children with developmental delays, neurological and medical
problems, including assessment, consultation, treatment, research, and
education.

**Lawson Health Research:**   is the research institute of London Health
Sciences Centre and St. Joseph's Health Care.  As one of the largest hospital-
based research institutes in Canada, Lawson is committed to furthering
scientific knowledge to advance health care around the world.  Within the
institute, a "bench to bedside" approach medical research is encouraged.
Meeting that researchers focus their efforts on the development of new
knowledge that can be applied directly to patient care within the hospitals.

**CURRICULUM  
**

The educational needs of psychiatry trainees are preeminent at Western. The
training program meets all Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
(RCPSC) certification requirements. The program comprises five years of
postgraduate training.

**YEAR 1  
**

All programs at Western commence on **July 1st,**  with a one-day orientation
to be held on campus prior to start date.

The PGY-1 curriculum is designed to provide a superb introduction to the
Department of Psychiatry and the areas of medicine relevant to a career in
psychiatry. Residents select electives in psychiatry and off-service in
addition to core required rotations.

The Psychiatry residency training program at Western has a very innovative
block-long orientation program offered during July that is unique in Canada.
It provides new residents with an extended period of time to grow accustomed
to the city, as well as time to tour the many community agencies partnered
with the hospital.

**YEARS 2 to 5**

The PGY-2 to PGY-5 curriculum has been designed to fulfill current Royal
College requirements.

  * PGY-2: General Adult Psychiatry rotations (inpatient and outpatient), including 3-block half-time selective in a more specialized area of outpatient psychiatry

  * PGY-3: Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Geriatric Psychiatry rotations

  * PGY-4 and PGY-5: required rotations in Consultation-Liaison Psychiatry, Shared Care, Severe and Persistent Mental Illness and a TTP clinical experience within an elective rotation of the resident's choice.

The PGY-4 and PGY-5 years also include time for selective and electives
rotations, with most of PGY5 dedicated to elective time.

Throughout the PGY-2 to PGY-5 years, there are longitudinal learning
experiences in Psychotherapy (CBT, Psychodynamic, Family, Group and other
modalities such as DBT and IPT), Addictions, and Research.

ELECTIVES / SELECTIVES

Rotation selection is determined primarily by the particular interests and
career goals of the individual residents and enables residents to undertake
the broadest possible experience before making final career decisions.

Electives are available in many areas of clinical and academic practice,
including: psychosis, mood and anxiety disorders, neuropsychiatry, rural
psychiatry, consultation-liaison, eating disorders, concurrent disorders,
emergency psychiatry, neurodevelopmental disorders, collaborative (shared)
mental health care services, geriatric psychiatry, child & adolescent
psychiatry, forensic assessments at jails or detention centres, community
clinic consultations in and outside of London, research projects,
psychotherapy, medical education and an ever-expanding number of other
options.

**PSYCHOTHERAPY  
**

Training is conducted throughout the years of residency and includes formal
seminars, individual and group supervision, interviewing skills seminars, and
psychotherapy workshops.

Skilled supervision in many modalities is available for treatment of patients
across the lifespan, including psychodynamic, cognitive behavioral,
interpersonal, group, family and dialectical behavioral therapy.  

Protected time is provided throughout the PGY-2 to PGY-5 years in order to
complete practical psychotherapy training.

**CHILD AND ADOLESCENT PSYCHIATRY  
**

The Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry is  active with a wide range
of experiences available in a variety of settings including inpatient,
residential, emergency, consultation-liaison, day treatment, hospital
outpatient, community outpatient, and telepsychiatry programs.

Residents  have the opportunity to work in hospitals, children's mental health
agencies, schools and other community agencies. Opportunities are also
available in centres outside of London. Training is available in a variety of
therapies including family, group, individual, play, behaviour management,
cognitive behavioural, interpersonal, dialectical behavioural.  Notable
aspects of our program include a two-week neurodevelopmental disorder
experience during PGY-3 and opportunities to participate in DBT for
adolescents.

Many research opportunities are available in areas such as pervasive
developmental disorders, mood and anxiety disorders, eating disorders,
psychotropic medications, paediatric chronic pain, and psychotherapeutic
interventions.

Formal subspecialty training is available for those residents interested in
pursuing a career in Child and Adolescent Psychiatry.

Dr. Michelle Ngo

Child and Adolescent Subspecialty Program Director

[Michelle.Ngo@lhsc.on.ca](mailto:patricia.hall@lhsc.on.ca)

**GERIATRIC PSYCHIATRY  
**

The Division of Geriatric Psychiatry is multi-disciplinary and has links with
family medicine, geriatric medicine/physical rehabilitation, and neurology.
There is a regional geriatric psychiatry program, a geriatric community
outreach program, an active geriatric consultation-liaison service, and
significant opportunities for research.

Formal subspecialty training is available for those residents interested in
pursuing a career in Geriatric Psychiatry

Dr. Tuoyo Awani

Geriatric Subspecialty Program Director

[Tuoyo.Awani@lhsc.on.ca](mailto:tuoyo.awani@lhsc.on.ca)

**FORENSIC PSYCHIATRY  
**

Forensic psychiatry training is a unique and fascinating specialty area of
psychiatry that is devoted to caring for people with mental health disorders
who also have legal issues.

Our work is exceptionally broad in scope and consequently offers the
opportunity to tailor your training or career to meet your goals.  Examples of
some of our colleagues' practice interests include: legal counsel, mental
health courts, correctional centres, The Ontario Review Board, The Consent and
Capacity Board, Faculty of Law, Western University, and other academic and
health care institutions.

Forensics sub-specialty training is in the development stage at this time.

Dr. Naghmeh Mokhber

Medical Director, Southwest Centre for Forensic Mental Health Care

Naghmeh Mokhber | London Health Sciences Centre

[Naghmeh.Mokhber@sjhc.london.on.ca](mailto:Naghmeh.Mokhber@sjhc.london.on.ca)















**RESEARCH**

Residents participate in research as part of their training, consistent with
the Royal College training recommendations.

Training in research methodology is provided as part of the teaching modules
in the program as well as monthly research groups to provide guidance and
exposure to work done within the department.

Our department has active research programs related to mood and anxiety
disorders,(including new treatment methods), stress-related disorders, and
child-adolescent psychiatry. Clinical trials of psychotropic drugs are also
undertaken within the Department.

Dr. Paul Frewen

Scholarly Lead

[pfrewen@uwo.ca](mailto:pfrewen@uwo.ca)

**EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITES**

Residents are excused from clinical duties on Thursdays for scheduled
educational activities. Educational time is a half day per week for PGY-1 and
a full day from PGY-2 onwards.  

Didactic teaching of core material is an important part of our training
experience and has been integrated into the residents’ clinical schedule.

During the PGY-2 to PGY-4 years, core modules are taught, covering the topics
of adult, child and adolescent, psychotherapy, and geriatric psychiatry.  The
modules also include essential topics in forensic, social and administrative
psychiatry, as well as epidemiology, and research methodology.

Interviewing skills are emphasized throughout the four years of psychiatry
specific training.  Interviewing sessions are geared towards preparation for
the Standardized Assessment of a Clinical Encounter (STACER) examinations.
Successful completion of the STACER examination is required for Royal College
of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada certification.

Evaluation using the objective structured clinical examination (OSCE) method
is part of the spring Royal College examinations. OSCE skills are also
emphasized throughout the four years of psychiatry specific training at
Western with monthly sessions utilizing what is probably the most extensive
and formalized OSCE resource of any psychiatry residency training program in
Canada.

**ON CALL DUTIES  
**

Call is taken with the Centralized Emergency Psychiatry Services (CEPS)
located at Victoria Hospital.  

Western has instituted a graded on-call system so that the frequency of call
decreases with advancement in the program. Currently, and in line with PARO
guidelines, the frequency of call for PGY-1 and PGY-2 residents is
approximately 1 in 7 days while PGY-4 and PGY-5 residents do approximately 2
days of call per month.

On weekdays call begins at 4:30 pm and finishes at 8:30 am the next day.  On
weekends call begins at 9:00 am.

Two or three residents (including at least one senior resident) are on call
each day together often with two senior medical students.  Mental health
nursing coverage in the emergency department has been available 24 hours per
day to assist residents on call. Two consultants on-call (one for adult
psychiatry and one for child and adolescent psychiatry) provide back up for
residents throughout the call period and review all cases with residents.

Following every on-call experience, handover rounds precedes residents being
excused from returning to clinical or academic duties for the remainder of the
post on call day.

* * *

# Training Sites

**PSYCHIATRY AT WESTERN  
**

All of the hospitals in London are affiliated with Western's Schulich School
of Medicine and excel in research, education, and patient care. Areas of
specialization include (among many others): neuropsychiatry, imaging,
molecular biology, developmental biology, clinical pharmacology, and clinical
determinants and outcomes. Multicentre, multidisciplinary research in
schizophrenia is a major focus for the Department of Psychiatry at Western.

**TEACHING FACILITIES  
**

**London Health Sciences Centre (LHSC)** operates a total of 1,063 beds at
three campus sites and offers a full range of medical services. Psychiatric
services are delivered at each campus as follows:

**Victoria Hospital (LHSC-VH)**  is the primary training site for psychiatry.
This hospital contains 110 acute adult inpatient beds.  The outpatient program
includes a busy urgent consultation ambulatory clinic, the Prevention and
Early Psychoses Program (PEPP), the Trauma program, and other ambulatory
resources.  It also contains Child and Adolescent outpatient services, and the
Geriatric Psychiatry outreach program.  This is also where our Centralized
Emergency Psychiatric Service (CEPS) is located which operates in conjunction
with the region's busiest emergency department. This is the site where
residents are on call during their psychiatry rotations.  
**University Hospital (LHSC-UH)** operates a Consultation-Liaison (C-L)
service and the Neuropsychiatry program with strong links to the Department Of
Clinical Neurological Sciences.  
**Children's Hospital** is a regional tertiary care centre located at the
Victoria Hospital (VH) site. The Child and Adolescent inpatient psychiatric
unit at this site operates 16 beds. These include general child and adolescent
beds and eating disorders beds.

**Additional Teaching Hospitals**

**St. Joseph's Health Care (SJHC)** operates a total of approximately 1,608
beds and specializes in family and general medicine, surgery, obstetrics,
neonatology, mental health and rehabilitation. Facilities include Mount Hope
and Parkwood Hospital which are chronic care and rehabilitative facilities.
The Department of Psychiatry provides C-L services to these facilities. The
mental health division of SJHC operates:

**Parkwood Institute Mental Health Care:  ** provides outpatient care to
patients from a five-county catchment area. This site offers training in
Psychosis, Geriatrics, Dual Diagnosis Disorders, Complex Mood Disorders,
Concurrent Disorders, and Adolescent Psychiatry.

**Southwest Centre for Forensic Mental Health Care:** provides both inpatient
and outpatient programs. The programs mission is to enable persons with mental
health disorder who have been in conflict with the law.

**Child and Parent Resource Institute (CPRI):  ** is a facility for persons up
to 16 years of age. The emphasis is on children with developmental delays and
neurological and medical problems.





* * *

# Additional Information

The size of the Western University Psychiatry Residency Program allows for
individual attention and regular one on one contact between residents and
faculty - and yet, it is large enough to offer exposure to a wide variety of
subspecialties and world class research opportunities.

The number of residents also facilitates cohesiveness.  Residents in
psychiatry at Western come from medical schools across the country and around
the world adding richness and diversity to the group.

The training program offers a broad and exceptional range of learning
opportunities including outstanding preparation for the Royal College exams
and subspecialty opportunities.

**All information contained is subject to change until such time as the rank
order lists are filed.**

**Please ensure you review information on a regular basis.**

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26943?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26943