#  University of Manitoba - Family Medicine - Bilingual  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 12, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Leah Peters  

Address Family Medicine  
University of Manitoba  
P228-770 Bannatyne Avenue  
Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3E 0W3  

Websites of Interest [ About Our Program:
](http://umanitoba.ca/healthsciences/medicine/units/family_medicine/)  
[ Provincial Criteria for Manitoba: ](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-
residency-match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Tamara Buchel

Title: Postgraduate Program Director

  

Name: Dr. Marie Loewen

Title: Site Education Director/Site Medical Lead

  

Name: Shannon Rankin

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: shannon.rankin@umanitoba.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

The University of Manitoba campuses are located on original lands of
Anishinaabeg, Cree, Oji-Cree, Dakota, and Dene peoples, and on the homeland of
the Métis Nation. The Department of Family Medicine additionally participates
in clinical programs in Inuit communities. We respect the Treaties and
Agreements that were made on these territories, we acknowledge the harms and
mistakes of the past, and we dedicate ourselves to move forward in partnership
with Indigenous communities in a spirit of reconciliation and collaboration.



**ZOOM INFORMATION SESSIONS:**

CaRMS General Overview session:  Thursday, November 14 from 7:00-8:30pm CST
via Zoom.

**Main Program Overview Zoom Link:**

<https://umanitoba.zoom.us/j/65400352768?pwd=F3Mg29YkJ3dbJRr64a4c0nLIYZNPKm.1>



**CaRMS Information Deeper Dive – Bilingual & Rural Programs: Tuesday,
November 26 from 7:00-8:30pm CST via Zoom**

<https://umanitoba.zoom.us/meeting/register/u5AtdeiorDoiG9wr0ShLbzIQlXGdG80srGdS>



**CaRMS Information - Resident Sessions (hosted by our Lead Residents):
7:00-8:00pm CST via Zoom**

  * **Wednesday, December 4**
  * <https://umanitoba.zoom.us/meeting/register/u5wqceitqj8jGdY0qYbQyI6rwtQmBf4mDrUG>
  *   * **Wednesday, December 11**
  * <https://umanitoba.zoom.us/meeting/register/u5wrdO6pqDsiHtJQsk0cYSRps04Ei3XfQoS1>





**MANDATORY ORIENTATION SESSIONS:**

The mandatory full day **Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation**  for all
residents will be held on Thursday, June 26, 2025

The mandatory full day **Family Medicine Residency Orientation  **will be held
on Friday, June 27, 2025



**Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS)**

Prior to the commencement of training, matched applicants must provide proof
of ACLS certification that is current as of July 1, 2024. The ACLS Provider
course must be certified by the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada or the
American Heart Association. ACLS training that is not certified by one of
these two organizations and/or is completed entirely through an online course
will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for all costs associated with
obtaining ACLS certification. We provide a re-certification course in your
second year of residency prior to graduation.



**Family Medicine Professional Choices (FMProC)**

The Family Medicine Professional Choices (FMProC) testing is mandatory for all
applicants. It is a situational judgement test designed to evaluate your
professional reasoning, communication skills and aptitude for responding
effectively to diverse clinical situations. It primarily consists of two types
of questions: ranking and rating scenarios.

FMProC registration for the first round of CaRMS 2025 will be open on
September 11, 2024. More details: <https://fmproc.com/>

Situational judgement tests are designed to assess applicant’s judgement
regarding situations encountered in the workplace or during training.
Applicants are presented with a set of hypothetical based scenarios and asked
to make judgements about possible responses. Applicants responses are
evaluated against a pre-determined scoring key to provide a picture of their
situational judgement in that particular context.

The development and modification of the scenarios in FMProC involved input
from several leaders with different perspectives, roles and experiences. This
included family physicians, educators, family medicine residents and medical
students, Indigenous health, rural and remote family medicine, 2SLGBTQ+, anti-
racism, international medical graduates and more. This specifically included
groups under-represented in medicine to ensure, as much as possible, that no
group is disadvantaged by the test format or content.

**Resident Home Location and Travel Requirements**

As a resident in the Bilingual stream, you will be expected to maintain a
residence in Winnipeg or surrounding area.

**Vacation Allowance**

Vacation in PGY1 can be taken in the following ways:

  * Two weeks in each of two blocks in conjunction with an approved elective or Family Medicine Block Time in the remaining two weeks of the same blocks
  * Vacation in 1 week blocks can be taken during Family Medicine Block Time
  * One 4 week vacation block

_*Vacation is not allowed in Block 1 in PGY1.  _

Though the program tries to accommodate residents’ specific vacation period
requests, constraints of scheduling often requires flexibility and not all
requests will be approved.

* * *

# Return of Service

All IMGs will be required to sign a return of service contract with Manitoba
Health, in the specialty (including Family Medicine) in which they have
completed residency training. The ROS commitment is commensurate with the
length of the training program. All IMGs entering a training program already
holding a return of service obligation must disclose this obligation at the
time of application. IMGs who have an undischarged return of service
obligation may not be eligible to begin training in a position funded by
Manitoba Health. Such individuals may wish to contact Shared Health at [pmao-
residents@sharedhealthmb.ca](mailto:pmao-residents@sharedhealthmb.ca) for more
information.  
---  
  
* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

**Language Requirements**

#### _Please note: Your interview will be conducted in both French and
English._

In addition to meeting the residency program’s English language requirements,
fluency in written and spoken French is a requirement of the bilingual stream.

If you graduated from a French-language institution, please provide the name
of the secondary school or post secondaryinstitution you attended in your
personal letter.

Your ability to communicate verbally in French will be informally assessed
during the interview. This will not in any way affect your overall interview
score, particularly if you are applying to multiple streams, but only to
determine your suitability for the bilingual stream.



**You are required to fulfill ALL of the most current Provincial Criteria for
International Medical Graduates for Manitoba.**

The criteria can be found at: <https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/>



* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

All residents will be required to disclose their MCCQE1 examination results
whenever available. The purpose of this disclosure is to allow for resources
to be provided to the few residents who would benefit from extra support early
in their residency in an effort to maximize their success.



NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).

Optional - will be reviewed

MCCQE Part II

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part II - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part II - Supplemental Information Report

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Three (3) Family Medicine Structured Reference Letters are required. Please
select supervisors, preceptors or other individuals who have had ample
opportunity to assess you as a candidate for Family Medicine. Ideally one of
your letters should be from a family physician but this is not mandatory.

All three (3) Family Medicine Structured Reference Letters must be current and
dated on or after January 1, 2024. Undated reference letters will not be
accepted. Do not arrange for more than three (3) Family Medicine Structured
Reference Letters as additional letters will not be reviewed.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

A personal letter is required. We are looking for mature, enthusiastic
physicians who bring with them a broad range of life experiences, are
committed to providing excellent patient care and can embrace the depth and
breadth of experiences our program offers.

In 500 words or less, please address the following areas:  What life
experiences demonstrate your adaptability, team skills, leadership potential,
and sense of compassion?  Why do you feel the University of Manitoba would be
the right choice for you?  In what ways are you connected to Manitoba?

Custom Résumé / CV

Include a current CV in the Custom Resume section.  Please tailor your resume
to provide us with a better understanding of your experiences and commitment
to Family Medicine.

Conditionally required

Proof of registration as a clinical assistant or allied health professional in
Canada

If you are or have been employed in Canada as a Clinical Assistant or as an
Allied Health Professional, you must provide supporting documentation of
registration as a Clinical Assistant or other Allied Health Professional.

Optional - will be reviewed

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Self-identification questionnaire

  * The University of Manitoba, Rady Faculty of Health Sciences promotes and supports a community that embraces equity, diversity and inclusion, provides for equality of opportunity and recognizes the dignity of all people. These are key values to create an inclusive community for all. The University encourages applications from Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women, persons of a minority sexual orientation and/or gender identity, and all candidates who would contribute to the diversity of our community.
  * We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self-Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete confidentiality. We are in the data collection phase currently.  Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self-identification questionnaire, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so, the information received would only be used for program selection improvement in future years. It will not be used for selection purposes this year. Any self-identification questionnaires received will NOT be reviewed as part of our file review process or used as an aid for file reviewers for the 2024 match.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applicants must apply to, and rank each of the University of Manitoba Family
Medicine programs individually. There is one central review process.

The same personal letter should be used for all University of Manitoba Family
Medicine applications.

There will be only one interview irrespective of the number of programs to
which you apply; there may be specific additional questions based on your
program interests.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Tuesday, January 21, 2025  
  
Wednesday, January 22, 2025  
  
Thursday, January 23, 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Applicants who are invited for
interview will participate in one structured interview, regardless of the
number of sites to which you have applied. The structured interview may have
questions specific to the sites to which you have applied.  
  
The interview is conducted as a 3-person panel interview and typically
consists of 1 physician, 1 interprofessional faculty member, and 1 resident.  
  
Candidates will be invited to attend one of the three interview days. The
interview itself lasts 30 to 40 minutes.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The Department of Family Medicine at the University of Manitoba is committed
to a fair, equitable, and transparent selection process.

To address the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences commitment to equity, diversity
and inclusion we take proactive measures including implicit bias training for
all selection committees. We strive for diversity and cultural safety
throughout the process (hiring panels, short-list of candidates, interviews).
We encourage you to self-identify any aspect of diversity in your personal
statement.

In assessing eligible IMG applicants, The Department of Family Medicine will
ordinarily consider applicants who have completed their undergraduate medical
education within the preceding 10 years, unless the applicant has completed a
residency in Family Medicine and/or is actively engaged in generalist
practice. Of all such eligible applicants, approximately one third of all
applicants, and no less than 300, shall be selected for file review based upon
a composite score generated from the following:

\- the z-score of MCCQE Part I

\- the better z-score of NAC or the MCCQE Part II

Of those applicants selected for file review, approximately 100-150 applicants
will be selected for interview including all residents of Manitoba, and all
other IMG applicants based upon a composite score generated from the z-score
of MCCQE Part I plus the better z-score of NAC or the MCCQE Part II and file
review score.

Rank order lists will be created for each stream's IMG positions based on the
following formulaic approach:

\- z-score of MCCQE Part I plus the better z-score of NAC or the MCCQE Part II
(20% weighting)

\- file review score (30% weighting)

\- FMProC score (20%)

\- Interview score (30% weighting).

Preference may be given to residents of Manitoba, or individuals who have
identified a genuine commitment to Manitoba.

Applicants who are invited for interview will participate in one structured
interview, regardless of the number of sites to which you have applied. The
structured interview may have questions specific to the sites to which you
have applied.

## Program goals

The University of Manitoba is committed to the social justice principles of
equity, access and participation and to promoting opportunities for
systemically marginalized groups who have been excluded from full
participation at the University and the larger community including Indigenous,
Black, racially marginalized Peoples, persons with disabilities and those who
identify as 2SLGBTQIA+ (Two Spirit, lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans,
questioning, intersex, asexual and other diverse sexual identities) and women.

A broad knowledge base and clinical skill sets enable family physicians to
work in diverse settings such as patients' homes, outpatient clinics,
emergency departments, labour and delivery suites, hospital wards, and nursing
homes. Family medicine often serves as the main entry point to the health care
system and the hub that provides continuity of care throughout the life cycle.
As such, family medicine is the central medical discipline. The importance of
primary care in quality of health and the value Canadian society places on
family physicians in the delivery of this care are well known.

The goal of our residency program is to train family physicians who are able
to provide comprehensive, high quality, continuous care in urban, rural, or
remote settings.

## Selection process goals

An inclusive, open and diverse community is essential to excellence and
fosters voices that have been ignored or discouraged. To address the Rady
Faculty of Health Sciences commitment to equity, access and participation, and
in recognition of the underrepresentation of members of historically and
currently excluded groups,  our program has taken the following proactive
measures as part of our selection process:

Implicit bias training for all selection committee members, diverse
representation of selection committee members, inclusion of interview
questions targeted to assess applicant commitment to EDIA, offering necessary
accommodations during the interview process, second pass/review of applicants
below interview and rank order list cut off to review for possible bias in
scoring, orientation to all assessors to scoring rubrics, file review
completed by dedicated, trained group.

We strive for diverse perspectives and cultural safety throughout the hiring
process (resident selection committees, short-list of applicants, interviews).
We ask all applicants to include an EDIA statement in their personal letter
with evidence demonstrating their own commitment to EDIA in their work and
training thus far.

## File review process

Review team composition : The file review teams consist of Family Medicine
physicians, current residents and interprofessional faculty.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 601 +  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Comprehensive and well organized document   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Family Medicine or broad range of interests   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  See examinations & additional documents   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Well rounded activities other than academics   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Initiative and able to problem solve   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evaluate according to the info provided by school   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  500 words or less   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  3 standardized reference letters   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Variety   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evaluate according to info provided by school   
Other file component(s) |  Familiarity with the Canadian Health Care System. Identifies interest in Family Medicine.  
  
We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self-
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self-
identification questionnaire, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so,
the information received would only be used for program selection improvement
in future years. It will not be used for selection purposes this year. Any
self-identification questionnaires received will NOT be reviewed as part of
our file review process or used as an aid for file reviewers for the 2024
match.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

An elective in Family Medicine either in Manitoba or elsewhere, completed
before file review, is not required for application to the University of
Manitoba Family Medicine Programs. However, we are looking for a demonstration
of interest in, and commitment to Family Medicine.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Interprofessional collaboration   
Collegiality |  Treats others with respect & knows professional boundaries   
Communication skills |  Ability to listen and communicate in a clear manner   
Health advocacy |  Affirming and sharing the vision and values of health promotion   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrates genuine interest through electives, extra curricular activities, volunteering, etc.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrates ongoing commitment to Family Medicine   
Leadership skills |  Ability to guide and help others   
Professionalism |  Carry themselves in a professional manner   
Scholarly activities |  Pursuing further education, previous accomplishments   
Other interview component(s) |  Commitment to underserved populations, resilience   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

# Overview of Department

#### <https://umanitoba.ca/medicine/department-family-medicine>

The University of Manitoba is committed to the social justice principles of
equity, access & participation and to promoting opportunities for systemically
marginalized groups who have been excluded from full participation at the
University and the larger community including Indigenous, Black, racially
marginalized Peoples, persons with disabilities and those who identify as
2SLGBTQIA+ (Two Spirit, lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, questioning, intersex,
asexual and other diverse sexual identities) and women.

For more than 40 years, the University of Manitoba’s Department of Family
Medicine has been positively influencing the health of individuals, families
and communities across Manitoba. Through clinical work, teaching and
innovative research, family medicine is making a difference.

We offer residents the chance to learn with interprofessional faculty, such as
dietitians, pharmacists, nurse practitioners and other health care
professionals. This collaborative learning model teaches our students and
residents the basic principles of health care professions, when to use them in
their care of patients and how to make appropriate referrals.

This program, accredited by the College of Family Physicians of Canada,
promotes whole-person medicine through a combination of patient-centred care
and structured seminars. During clerkship, learners are distributed in over 20
communities throughout Manitoba.

Family Medicine is a wide-ranging discipline, with the chance to impact a
diverse spectrum of patients in various communities. Manitoba is one of the
most diverse provinces in the country, providing an excellent opportunity to
work with patients from a variety of backgrounds.

  

## Training Passionate Family Physicians

After completing a four-year undergraduate degree in Medicine, students who
enter the two-year Family Medicine residency choose a learning stream tailored
to their practice interests.

Here is a video with a general overview of our Family Medicine Program at the
University of Manitoba.

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5vieoIArQFM&list=PLCNj2OCRLILF6vOq6gtxYSY3_M-
wuE57r&index=6](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5vieoIArQFM&list=PLCNj2OCRLILF6vOq6gtxYSY3_M-
wuE57r&index=6)

### Streams:

  * Urban
  * Northern Remote
  * Northern Thompson
  * Bilingual
  * Rural - Boundary Trails
  * Rural - Brandon
  * Rural - Interlake Eastern
  * Rural - Neepawa
  * Rural - Parkland
  * Rural - Portage la Prairie
  * Rural - Steinbach
  * Integrated Clinician Scholar (3 year program)

 Each stream provides a broad and balanced experience that prepares well-
rounded family physicians who can practice with confidence in a variety of
settings.

## Enhanced Training

In addition to the postgraduate program, Family Medicine also offers enhanced
skills training which allows Family Medicine doctors to continually shape and
reshape their careers. Enhanced training is available in the following areas:

  * Addictions
  * FM Anesthesia
  * Cancer Care
  * Care of the Elderly
  * Emergency Medicine
  * Obstetrical Surgical Skills
  * Palliative Care
  * Sports & Exercise Medicine

This training requires an additional 6–12 months of study. Residents finishing
their second year and practicing family physicians may apply.

## Inspiring Young Minds - Our Faculty

The Department of Family Medicine has over 500 faculty members who excel at
sharing knowledge, building competencies, and maximizing learning
opportunities for students.

Our faculty are integral participants in all stages of medical education. Some
have major Undergraduate teaching roles, providing comprehensive Family
Medicine and generalist content as well as their unique perspectives on health
care.

## Integrative Medicine in Residency Program Option

The Integrative Medicine in Residency (IMR) program is a two-year program of
study exploring the integration of Complementary and Alternative therapies
with conventional family practice in an evidence-based manner. This program is
being offered in conjunction with the University of Arizona Center for
Integrative Medicine, and is a 200-hour, interactive web-based curriculum that
is completed longitudinally alongside the Family Medicine residency program.
This program option is available to residents in all streams. Visit the
[Integrative Medicine in Residency
Program](http://umanitoba.ca/faculties/health_sciences/medicine/units/family_medicine/postgrad/integrative-
med.html) page for full details.

## Innovative Research

The Department of Family Medicine provides exciting opportunities to perform
research with practical outcomes on the health of Canadians. The department
promotes and supports the development of research skills and provides
workshops to all Family Medicine residents.

# **Courses Offered for Residents in Family Medicine***

**Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS)**

Prior to the commencement of training, matched applicants must provide proof
of ACLS certification that is current as of July 1, 2024. The ACLS Provider
course must be certified by the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada or the
American Heart Association. ACLS training that is not certified by one of
these two organizations and/or is completed entirely through an online course
will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for all costs associated with
obtaining ACLS certification. We provide a re-certification course in your
second year of residency prior to graduation.

**Advances in Labour and Risk Management (ALARM)**

We mandate ALARM training during the residency and provide reimbursement upon
successful completion.

**Advanced Trauma Life Support (ATLS)**

We mandate ATLS training during the residency and provide reimbursement upon
successful completion for all non-urban residents.

**Indigenous Cultures Awareness Workshop (ICAW)**

We mandate ICAW training during residency.

**Neonatal Resuscitation Program (NRP)**

We mandate NRP during residency and provide reimbursement upon successful
completion.

**Ultrasound Curriculum**

Ultrasound curriculum is mandatory and provided for all residents.

_*subject to change_



# **Scholarly Curriculum***

Scholarly activities in our program include:

\- participation in monthly Journal Clubs

\- presentations at patient case rounds and regular guideline appraisals

\- didactic teaching  

- formal Quality Improvement curriculum

\- Critical Appraisal assignments

\- PEARLS exercises as offered through the College of Family Physicians of
Canada

\- Academic Days throughout the year

\- additional core curriculum as mandated by PGME for all postgraduate program
residents

_* subject to change_

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The ability to practice in both official languages is essential in a number of
rural Manitoba communities. To meet  
this need, the University of Manitoba offers the only English/French Bilingual
Family Medicine program in Western  
Canada. Because our Francophone population is spread across Manitoba, we can
offer residents the opportunity to  
experience practice in both rural and urban communities.

  
First year  
Six months of block time are interspersed with off service rotations of Family
Medicine Block Time at Centre de  
Santé and Centre Medical Seine in Ste-Anne, MB. As of July 2024, the
Foundation Block was initiated for all first  
year residents. Amongst clinic time, there are modules and classes through the
university that are organized within  
the first 4 weeks of exposure. Our academic days are hybrid between sessions
with the other two Southern Health  
sites (Steinbach and Boundary Trails) or with the bilingual stream on it’s
own.  
Centre de Santé is a Francophone clinic in St. Boniface. This clinic focuses
on primary health care and has the  
advantage of a multidisciplinary team: family doctors, nurses, nurse
practitioners, dietitians, an athletic therapist, a  
psychiatrist, a social worker, and mental health workers. There are physicians
at Centre de Santé that provide  
obstetrical and newborn care at Hôpital St. Boniface Hospital, while others
see patients at the affiliated personal care  
home. Centre Médical Seine is a busy fee for service clinic 30 minutes east of
Winnipeg. Physicians also provide  
hospital coverage including ER and in-patient care, as well as nursing home
coverage.  
The other six months involve training, usually in English, primarily at
Hôpital St-Boniface Hospital for internal  
medicine rotations, adult emergency medicine, intensive care, and obstetrics.
The pediatric emergency medicine  
rotation is completed at the Children’s Hospital in Winnipeg.

  
Second year  
The second-year family medicine training occurs amongst all three of our
sites, with another two blocks at Centre de  
Santé, three blocks including longitudinal surgery in Ste-Anne, and two blocks
in Notre Dame de Lourdes. Notre  
Dame de Lourdes is a rural Francophone town 1.5 hours southwest of Winnipeg.
All physicians provide care to inpatients  
and cover the emergency department at the local hospital. At all sites,
residents practice all the tasks done by  
their preceptors: clinic appointments, minor procedures, prenatal and
postpartum care, palliative care, home visits,  
nursing home care. In addition, our academic days continue in the second year.

  
SURGERY - The development of the surgery program in Ste-Anne now enables us to
include surgical training in a  
Francophone setting. You will spend the equivalent of four weeks completed
longitudinally over the course of your  
time in Ste-Anne, working directly with the general surgeons.

  
PALLIATIVE CARE - Winnipeg has one of the longest-standing traditions in
Canada in providing hospital and  
community palliative care to its citizens. The palliative care rotation has
been evaluated by residents as one of the  
most rewarding and unique to their Family Medicine training. Skills taught by
palliative care family physician  
specialists enable residents to gain skills essential to providing symptom
based care to both patients struggling with  
chronic illness and during end-of-life care.

  
BEHAVIOURAL MEDICINE - An integrated approach to behaviour medicine is
utilized during your Family  
Medicine experiences.  
Your training includes:  
\- Sessions in psychiatry for the evaluation and care of patients in crisis,
patients with chronic mental illness and  
those with problems of abuse or substance dependence;  
\- Exposure to community mental health resources  
\- Participation in Shared Mental Health (Shared Care in Mental Health) with a
consultant psychiatrist, or mental  
health therapist

  
NUTRITION EDUCATION & CARE - Nutrition assessment, education and therapy are
essential components to  
practicing family medicine. Staff at the Centre de Santé include dietitians
who help train residents in nutrition  
knowledge.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Bilingual Training Site video:**

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GPNAzkBoUEM&list=PLCNj2OCRLILF6vOq6gtxYSY3_M-
wuE57r&index=2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GPNAzkBoUEM&list=PLCNj2OCRLILF6vOq6gtxYSY3_M-
wuE57r&index=2)

Your experience while at Centre de Santé will include a wide range of Family
Medicine practice. You will have  
exposures in outpatient care, home visits, and following maternity patients
through pregnancy and delivery.  
In both rural sites, Notre Dame de Lourdes and Ste-Anne, you will be
practicing a wide range of family medicine  
skills. Hospital work at these sites includes emergency room coverage, in-
patient admissions, surgical assist,  
postpartum care, and palliative care. You will also participate in office
based practice at the primary care clinics  
established in these communities, serving a wide variety of patients of all
ages. You may also be participating in  
home visits and Personal Care Home visits.

  
PGY-1  
Six months of Family Medicine Block time is completed between Centre de Santé
and Ste-Anne. As of July 2024,  
the Foundation Block was initiated for all first year residents. Amongst
clinic time, there are modules and classes  
through the university that are organized within the first 4 weeks of
exposure. Our academic days are hybrid  
between sessions with the other two Southern Health sites (Steinbach and
Boundary Trails) or with the bilingual  
stream on it’s own.  
Centre de Santé is a Francophone clinic in St. Boniface. This clinic focuses
on primary health care and has the  
advantage of a multidisciplinary team to serve its patients, including family
physicians, primary care nurses, nurse  
practitioners, dietitians, an athletic therapist, a psychiatrist, a social
worker, and mental health workers. Physicians at  
Centre de Santé also provide obstetrical and newborn care at Hôpital St.
Boniface Hospital, as well as nursing home  
care at ActionMarguerite. Ste-Anne is a rural Francophone town about 30
minutes southeast of Winnipeg. The busy  
clinic is complemented by a bustling rural hospital with a very active
emergency department and surgical program.  
Residents here will be exposed to the full range of rural Family Medicine.  
As a PGY-1 resident in the Bilingual Family Medicine program, you will be
based at Centre de Santé, with two  
blocks spent in Ste-Anne. Your off-service rotations are done at either the
Health Sciences Centre or St. Boniface  
Hospital and these are done in English.  
Experiences in Family Medicine include caring for outpatients, doing home
visits, caring for your patients admitted  
to hospital, and following maternity patients through pregnancy. There is a
wide variety of teaching sessions specific  
to community needs, rounds, and the integrated and nutrition programs.

  
PGY-2  
In the second year you will spend 20 weeks practicing family medicine amongst
our three sites: in addition to  
returning to Centre de Santé and Ste-Anne, you will be spending two blocks in
Notre Dame de Lourdes, a town 130  
km southwest of Winnipeg. In both rural sites you will be practicing a wide
range of family medicine skills  
including hospital work: emergency room coverage, in-hospital admissions,
postpartum care, and palliative  
care. You will also participate in both these towns' clinics doing office
based family practice where you will see a  
wide variety of patients of all ages. You may also be participating in home
visits as well as Personal Care Home  
visits. In addition, our academic days continue in second year.

  
Ste-Anne:  
Centre Médical Seine is a busy family medicine clinic situated across from
Hôpital Ste-Anne Hospital. This is a 21  
bed facility with a brand new, state-of-the-art operating room that includes 2
surgical suites, a scope room and 8  
recovery beds. Presently there are 7 physicians working in Ste-Anne. The ER
sees close to 10,000 visits/year. Due to  
the high volume of patients and the proximity of the hospital, residents are
exposed to a wide scope of practice.  
From covering the ER and using procedural skills that this requires (sutures,
casts, fracture reductions, trauma  
stabilization, codes, etc.) to doing office-based medicine and palliative
care, it is a package deal! Residents are  
always assigned to one of preceptors and are part of the team. There is good
opportunity for "horizontal" learning  
since OR and ER are part of this family rotation.  
Notre Dame de Lourdes:

  
Notre Dame de Lourdes (NDL) has a busy family practice in a beautiful clinic
where 5 family physicians work as  
well as one nurse practitioner. While in NDL residents get good exposure to
small town family medicine. Situated  
130 km from Winnipeg means providing ER coverage including all procedural
skills that this requires. Palliative  
care is also an important aspect of rural medicine practice. In-hospital
admissions are cared for by the physicians and  
residents gain this experience as well. Office-based medicine includes all age
groups. Residents will also be  
participating in home visits and Personal Care Home coverage. While on
rotation in NDL, residents will enjoy living  
in the rural community, in the rolling hills of a very picturesque town!

  
Centre de Santé:  
Centre de Santé is a Francophone clinic located in the heart of St. Boniface.
As an Access Centre, the mandate of  
this clinic is to provide primary care for complex patients within the
catchment area as well as Francophones  
throughout Winnipeg. This multidisciplinary clinic provides patients with
access to extensive Allied Health  
providers including a Social Work, Dietitians, Primary Care Nurses, a Clinical
Pharmacist, an Occupational  
Therapist, Mental Health Counselors and a Respiratory Physiotherapist. The
clinic serves a large immigrant and  
refugee population, as well as provides extensive mental health care with the
support of a Shared Care Psychiatrist.  
Residents will also have exposure to longitudinal obstetrical care, including
newborn care and breastfeeding support.  
Physicians also provide care in Personal Care Homes.

  
At all sites, our faculty members are committed to working with you in
providing the best learning environment  
possible. We know that Family Medicine is an exciting, diverse and challenging
profession - just like the program  
we offer at the University of Manitoba.

* * *

# Additional Information

**TRANSPORTATION**

As you will need to move frequently about the city and province between
training sites, you will need to secure a means of transportation.  You may
find it easiest to maintain a personal vehicle.

**Additional Points to Consider:**

  * Cost of living is one of the most affordable in Canada.
  * Full access to University of Manitoba library and its electronic resources, including UpToDate.
  * Competitive resident salaries with a solid resident contract including a well-supported maternity/paternity leave policy.  [http://www.parim.org](http://www.parim.org/)
  * Membership and registration fees are covered for University of Manitoba, College of Family Physicians and Surgeons of Manitoba, Canadian Medical Protective Association, and the initial membership in the College of Family Physicians of Canada for PGY1 year.
  * Annual two day resident retreat held in a community outside of Winnipeg.
  * All mandatory course fees are reimbursed upon successful completion. Examples of mandatory courses include: NRP, ALARM, ATLS, PALS, BLS and ACLS recertification. Mandatory courses vary between programs.
  * Travel costs and accommodation are provided for mandatory offsite rotations.

St. Boniface  
The heart of Manitoba’s Francophone community,

  
Succeeding cultures of Indigenous Peoples lived in the area for thousands of
years before European exploration. It  
was an area of historic Ojibwe occupation.  
Fur traders and European mercenaries hired by Lord Selkirk to protect his
fledgling Red River Colony were among  
the area's first European settlers. In 1818, St Boniface began its role in
Canadian political and cultural history - as  
mother parish for many French settlements in Western Canada; as the birthplace
of Louis Riel and fellow Métis who  
struggled to obtain favorable terms for Manitoba's entry into Confederation;
and as a focus of resistance to  
controversial 1890 legislation to alter Manitoba's school system and abolish
French as an official language in the  
province (see Manitoba Schools Question).  
French-speaking religious orders, including the Sisters of Charity of Montreal
(better known as the Grey Nuns), who  
arrived in 1844, founded the early educational, cultural and social-service
institutions, such as St. Boniface Hospital,  
the first in Western Canada.

  
St Boniface was incorporated as a town in 1883 and as a city in 1908. In 1971,
St. Boniface was amalgamated, along  
with several neighboring communities, into the City of Winnipeg. As one of the
larger French communities outside  
Québec, it has often been a centre of struggles to preserve French-Canadian
language and culture within Manitoba.  
A walk in the heart of St. Boniface along Provencher Boulevard and Taché
Street will take you past many signs and  
landmarks of the area’s illustrious history and unique architectural heritage.  
An exciting blend of the old, the new and the future  
The past is visible throughout St. Boniface, but the community’s real beauty
lies in the exciting blend of the old, the  
new and the future. The more modern side of St. Boniface, with its unique
shops, interesting eateries and vibrant arts  
and entertainment scene, is also well worth checking out.

  
Culture and Attractions:  
Fort Gibraltar - The Fort is a reproduction of the original built by the
North-West Company around 1810. During  
the fur-trade era the Voyageurs, also known as "coureurs des bois", worked
tirelessly for companies like the North-  
West. During the summer season, many costumed characters will be pleased to
guide you on an interpretive tour as  
you go back to the early 1800's. It is also the principal site for the famous
Festival du Voyageur, held every February.  
St. Boniface Cathedral - The current cathedral is actually the fifth built on
this site since 1818. The 1908 structure,  
which preceded the current building, was a splendid basilica that was
destroyed by fire in 1968. The new building,  
designed by renowned Franco-Manitoban architect Étienne Gaboury, incorporates
the façade and remaining walls of  
the 1908 building. An unusual architectural achievement, the Cathedral
attracts thousands of visitors each year.  
Canadian Museum for Human Rights - The first museum solely dedicated to the
evolution, celebration and future of  
human rights. The Canadian Museum for Human Rights will take you on a journey
of education and inspiration  
unlike anything you’ve experienced before.  
The Forks - Experience an exceptional array of dining options, fantastic local
makers and retailers, a constantly  
changing slate of entertainment and events, and many unique attractions that
encompass the site’s natural, historic  
and built features.

  
Festivals and Events:  
Festival du Voyageur - In addition to being Western Canada’s largest winter
festival, Festival du Voyageur is also  
“The World’s Largest Kitchen Party”! This unique ten-day festival celebrates
the joie de vivre of Voyageurs from  
the fur trade era. It also showcases French-Canadian culture, traditional
cuisine, a host of musical entertainment, and  
jigging and fiddling contests. With its magnificent snow sculptures, Festival
du Voyageur also celebrates winter fun  
with lots of outdoor activities for the entire family. The great winter
gathering is held every February in St.  
Boniface, the heart of Winnipeg’s French quarter. He ho!  
Folklarama – French Canadian Pavillion - Winnipeg’s Folklorama is the largest
and longest-running multicultural  
festival in the world! It lasts two full weeks and presents forty-plus
pavilions that celebrate the diverse cultures  
found in Manitoba. The highly popular French-Canadian Pavilion (Pavillon
canadien-français) features traditional  
dancing and jigging as well as mouth-watering French-Canadian specialties like
tourtière (meat pie), pea soup and  
sugar pie. Folklorama typically draws over 400,000 visitors each year.

  
Restaurants:  
Inferno’s Bistro - An upbeat French Bistro with summer patio. Inspirational
creative cuisine at a reasonable price.  
Le Resto Gare - Formerly the old train station of St. Boniface, this Winnipeg
landmark was the arrival point in  
Manitoba for many immigrants, and remained a busy centre of the community
until its closure in the 1950s. Reopened  
in 1969 as a Continental cuisine restaurant, Le Resto Gare is considered to be
among Winnipeg’s finest  
restaurants, specializing in French cuisine.  
La Belle Baguette & Le Croissant- Fresh bread, pastries, sandwiches, quiche,
etc.

  
Notre Dame de Lourdes  
A sun-kissed location in the Pembina Hills makes Notre-Dame-de-Lourdes ideal
for outdoor enthusiasts and nature  
lovers all year round. Within a short distance there are six golf courses, a
provincial park, swimming pools,  
mountain biking, groomed snowmobile and ATV trails. Outside of school and
work, there are many chances to  
socialize. A church, community hall, sports arena complex, seniors club and
several member-based organizations  
give residents an opportunity to participate and get to know one another,
making for a close-knit and safe  
community.  
Deeply inspired by European traditions, the people of this community
established in 1891, preserve and promote  
their French and Swiss origins, giving Notre-Dame-de-Lourdes its decidedly
European flavour - one that is still  
hinted at in their accents and experienced in the warm hospitality.  
Proud of their origin, the residents, the town and the parish of Notre-Dame-
de-Lourdes work effectively to preserve  
and promote their French culture.  
The community proudly offers health services, municipal services and community
services in both official  
languages. The community hospital, clinic, health specialist and ambulance
service have made the village an  
important health centre in the region. From water and sewage services to
garbage pick-up and a 20-members  
volunteer fire brigade, Notre-Dame-de-Lourdes assures its citizens receive
quality municipal services in both official  
languages while preserving the village's affordable cost of living.

  
Ste. Anne  
The Rural Municipality of Ste. Anne is one of the earliest settled areas of
Manitoba. The first settlers arrived at  
Pointe-des-Chênes (where the oaks meet) from Quebec in 1856 in search of
farmland. The initial settlement to the  
area consisted of 198 families and the main industry at this time was devoted
to supplying lumber for the  
construction of the St. Boniface Cathedral, in Winnipeg.  
The area underwent substantial change with the construction of the 850 kms
long Dawson Trail - the first all-  
Canadian highway linking the East with the Prairies. The trail was surveyed in
1858 with construction taking place  
from 1868-1871. The trail was pushed through from Fort William to the Red
River. A plaque situated outside of the  
Ste. Anne municipal building in the town of Ste. Anne tells the story of this
first water and land route starting west  
from the Northwest Angle of the Lake-of-the-Woods through the present town of
Ste. Anne to St. Boniface.  
The Rural Municipality of Ste. Anne was incorporated in February, 1881, but
not for long. In 1890, it was  
amalgamated with the Rural Municipality of LaBroquerie. It later became
reestablished by an Act of the Legislature  
in 1908 which happened to be the same year the municipal building in Ste. Anne
was erected. That 2-story  
historical building remained the RM of Ste. Anne municipal building until 2013
when a new modern building  
was erected just south of the Town of Ste. Anne off Provincial Highway #210.
The old building was sold to a local  
business with the intentions of preserving the historical site.

  
Geographical Traits - Where the Prairies Meet the Canadian Shield  
The Rural Municipality of Ste. Anne encompasses a population of approximately
4500. The area stretches from the  
Trans-Canada Highway south about 15 kilometers toward LaBroquerie, just west
of Ste. Anne to the Sandilands  
Provincial Forest and includes the settlement centres of Richer, Giroux, La
Coulee and Greenland. The western part  
of the municipality is primarily agricultural. Dairy, beef, hog and poultry
make up a highly intensive livestock  
industry to complete the agricultural picture.  
The Municipality of Ste. Anne is located only 20 minutes to the east of
Winnipeg just off the four-lane Trans-Canada  
Highway and only about 10 minutes north of Steinbach - 'The Automobile City' -
just off the four-lane PTH 12. The  
scenic Seine River winds through the municipality bordered by magnificent Oak
trees and other hardwoods.

  
Lifestyle and Amenities  
Health care is quite present within the community as it consists of the Ste.
Anne hospital, Seine River Medical  
Centre and a seniors home. The hospital has an emergency room, x-rays unit,
ambulance services and provides  
various other services. While the medical centre has several doctors, a
dentist and a pharmacist.  
The municipality has two well-equipped and trained volunteer fire brigades in
Ste. Anne and Richer and the area is  
part of the East Man Area Mutual Fire Aid System.  
The town and municipality of Ste. Anne offer schooling in Français, English as
well as French Immersion. The  
community also has a public library available at no fee to the residents of
the municipality.  
The Catholic churches have been a major force in the historical development of
the area. Ste. Anne's impressive  
stone church, dating from 1895, is among the oldest in the province. There is
also a catholic church in Richer, now a  
historical site, as well as churches of varying denominations throughout the
municipality.  
Recreational facilities can be found within the municipality as well as in the
town of Ste. Anne. The municipality has  
several privately owned scenic and enjoyable public golf courses; Oakwood (18
holes), Ridgewood (9 holes),  
Girouxsalem (9 holes) and Quarry Oaks (27 holes). Seasonal camping is very
popular in the well-treed eastern part  
of the municipality with five privately owned campgrounds: Lilac, Wild Oaks,
Rock Garden, Ridgewood and Cherry  
Hill. The town of Ste. Anne provides facilities such as an indoor arena, a
four-sheet curling rink, baseball, soccer  
fields and two tennis courts. With the abundant forests and parks, there is
truly something for everyone within the  
municipality!

  
Community Spirit  
In recognition of Ste. Anne's Dawson Trail heritage, Ste. Anne each year
celebrates its Dawson Trail Days on the  
September long weekend with slow-pitch tournaments, live entertainment, beer
gardens and fireworks.  
The Rural Municipality of Ste. Anne is at the centre of the Eastman region of
Manitoba and at the crossroads of  
major highways. It combines the charms of a rural setting with easy access to
a major metropolitan center. It is an  
ideal region for business, industry and settlement. The Rural Municipality of
Ste. Anne is a region where people  
live, work, play and connect.

  
ABOUT WINNIPEG  
Winnipeg is a “small” city with a big town feel, located approximately 25 km
from the longitudinal centre of  
Canada. It is a multicultural city of approximately 700,000 friendly people,
who represent over 100 spoken  
languages.  
Winnipeg has a huge arts culture (dance, music, theatre), has an extensive
food scene, and is home to many festivals.  
Winnipeg experiences 4 distinct seasons. Our legendary winters provide
opportunity for various winter sports,  
including cross-country skiing, skating, snowmobiling, and ice hockey.  
Although our winters sometimes seem a bit long, nothing beats a prairie summer
under our big sky! Manitoba  
summers are typically sunny and very hot, perfect for outings to the park, the
lake, or festivals!  
Winnipeg is close to numerous lakes, parks and beaches, which provide great
areas to camp, fish, and hike. The city  
itself offers plenty opportunity to cycle, golf, play Frisbee, etc.  
Winnipeg is home to many professional and amateur sports teams including the
Winnipeg Jets (hockey), Winnipeg  
Blue Bombers (football), and Winnipeg Goldeyes (baseball).  
Last but not least, Winnipeg is a very affordable place to live in Canada.
Resident salaries are higher than in most  
provinces, and items such as rent, food, gas, and car insurance are less, so
money stretches farther.

  
For more info, please visit these websites:  
http://www.destinationwinnipeg.ca  
http://www.tourismwinnipeg.com/  
http://www.tourismwinnipeg.com/about-tourism-winnipeg/publications/factoids  
http://jets.nhl.com/  
http://www.winnipegrestaurants.ca/  
http://www.travelmanitoba.com/

* * *

# FAQ

**ABOUT WINNIPEG**

Winnipeg is a “small” city with a big town feel, located approximately 25 km
from the longitudinal centre of Canada.  It is a multicultural city of
approximately 700,000 friendly people, who represent over 100 spoken
languages.



Winnipeg has a huge arts culture (dance, music, theatre), has an extensive
food scene, and is home to many festivals.



Winnipeg experiences 4 distinct seasons.  Our legendary winters provide
opportunity for various winter sports, including cross-country skiing,
skating, snowmobiling, and ice hockey.



Although our winters sometimes seem a bit long, nothing beats a prairie summer
under our big sky!  Manitoba summers are typically sunny and very hot, perfect
for outings to the park, the lake, or festivals!



Winnipeg is close to numerous lakes, parks and beaches, which provide great
areas to camp, fish, and hike. The city itself offers plenty opportunity to
cycle, golf, play Frisbee, etc.



Winnipeg is home to many professional and amateur sports teams including the
Winnipeg Jets (hockey), Winnipeg Blue Bombers (football), and Winnipeg
Goldeyes (baseball).



Last but not least, Winnipeg is a very affordable place to live in Canada.
Resident salaries are higher than in most provinces, and items such as rent,
food, gas, and car insurance are less, so money stretches farther.



For more info, please visit these websites:



[http://www.destinationwinnipeg.ca](http://www.destinationwinnipeg.ca/)



<http://www.tourismwinnipeg.com/>



<http://www.tourismwinnipeg.com/about-tourism-winnipeg/publications/factoids>



<http://jets.nhl.com/>



<http://www.winnipegrestaurants.ca/>



<http://www.travelmanitoba.com/>

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26746?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26746