#  University of Toronto - Public Health and Preventive Medicine including
Family Medicine - Toronto

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on October 02, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Barry Pakes  

Address Dalla Lana School of Public Health  
Health Sciences Building, 5th Floor  
155 College Street  
Toronto, Ontario, M5T 3M7  

Work  (416) 946-0952

Websites of Interest [ Public Health & Preventive Medicine Residency Program -
Website ](http://phpm.pgme.utoronto.ca/)  
[ Postgraduate Medical Education Website ](https://pg.postmd.utoronto.ca/)  
[ Dalla Lana School of Public Health ](https://www.dlsph.utoronto.ca/)  
[ Department of Family & Community Medicine ](https://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Barry Pakes

Title: Program Director

Email: barry.pakes@utoronto.ca

  

Name: Dr. Alexa Caturay

Title: Associate Program Director

Email: alexa.caturay@mail.utoronto.ca

  

Name: Ms. Lisa Chambers

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: phpm.progasst@utoronto.ca

Phone: 416-946-0952

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion**  
All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of the
University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

  
**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)  
** The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.  
  
_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Thank you for your interest in the Postgraduate Medical Education program in
Public Health and Preventive Medicine (PHPM) at the Dalla Lana School of
Public Health, at the University of Toronto. We are one of the largest PHPM
programs in Canada and are accredited by the Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Canada.  
  
In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference must be submitted.  Referees are asked to
specifically address the candidate's:

  1. Understanding of the specialty and field of  Public Health and Preventive Medicine
  2. Motivation and preparation to train and practice in this field
  3. Intellectual capacity, problem solving ability, quantitative ability and academic achievement
  4. Communication and interpersonal skills
  5. Professionalism including maturity, work ethic, altruism, and respect
  6. Leadership capability
  7. Self-directed learning skills and insight

Note: Applicants should choose referees who can adequately describe their
suitability for the program, as outlined above.  At least one or more letters
should be from a PHPM specialist and/or health professional with an
understanding of the specialty of Public Health and Preventive Medicine.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1500

  

\- A personal letter is required (maximum word count of 1500) describing the
reasons for pursuing a career in public health and preventive medicine and
future contributions to the field. Candidates must address the minimum
selection criteria listed below (please refer to **Selection Criteria**).

\- Candidates must address their preparation/readiness for graduate education
in epidemiology and biostatistics. This would include explicitly stating any
biostatistics or equivalent courses taken and/or relevant experience.

\- Any gaps in training should also be addressed in the personal letter (e.g.,
gap year in medical school, etc.)

\- Candidates should describe their elective experience(s) in public health,
including but not limited to where they completed the elective and what they
learned from this experience. If candidates were unable to complete an
elective in public health, they should describe where they had hoped to go and
what their intended goals had been for their public health elective.
Candidates who were not able to secure a public health elective should
describe what steps they took to get a better understanding of PHPM in lieu of
an elective.

-The PHPM Residency Program strives to optimize representation from under-represented groups in medicine. Priority populations as deﬁned by the University of Toronto’s Temerty Faculty of Medicine are: Indigenous peoples of Canada (First Nations, Inuit, and Métis); people of African ancestry (racialized as Black); the economically disadvantaged. You can find more information [here](https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/equity-diversity-and-inclusion-temerty-faculty-medicine). If you self-identify as being from one of these groups, you are invited to indicate this in your letter (optional).  If relevant, we would welcome the inclusion of details about work you have done with these or other underrepresented populations.  
  
_Important Note: Please address any gaps in training or remediation periods in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count._

Custom Résumé / CV

\- Curriculum Vitae (please include activities, work, research,
accomplishments and awards relevant to the selection criteria).



Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

\- Undergraduate transcripts can be uploaded directly in your CaRMS Online
account.

Optional - will be reviewed

Graduate Transcript (Master/PhD Degree)

\- If graduate studies have been previously undertaken, graduate transcripts
for all postsecondary education **MUST** be uploaded directly in your CaRMS
Online account.

CEGEP Transcript

\- For Quebec applicants, CEGEP transcripts **MUST** be uploaded directly in
your CaRMS Online account.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 24, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Virtual interview will be held on Friday,
January 24, 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process:

  * All applicants will be notified by email to inform them whether or not they have been selected for an interview.
  * Applicants' files will be reviewed and scored on the basis of their curriculum vitae, medical transcript, post-secondary academic transcripts, medical student performance record, reference letters and personal letter. Applicants providing evidence of the aforementioned requirements in the CaRMS application file will be prioritized for further consideration.
  * The program will contact applicants by email once files have been reviewed. Selected applicants are expected to attend interviews by videoconference on the published date.
  * Each of the selected candidates will have two interviews. The interviews are conducted as a separate, independent process from the file review. Interviewers will not have access to candidate application material. Candidates will have an opportunity to attend the program's academic half-day rounds, meet the program director, as well as informal 'meet and greet' time with PHPM residents.
  * Successful applicants will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the public health and preventive medicine specialty and reflect on their experiences in public health at the time of interviews.

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

#### University of Toronto PHPM Residency Program Goals:

Our program seeks to graduate Public Health and Preventive Medicine (PHPM)
specialists with the knowledge and skills needed to assess and manage health
issues faced by communities and populations. The program will ensure that all
graduates can make independent, evidence informed, community responsive,
accountable, and ethical decisions that maintain and improve health overall
and reduce health inequities.

The program will prepare all trainees to serve as local medical officers of
health. However, recognizing the need for PHPM specialists in many roles and
the variety of career paths graduates may choose, the program will support
trainees to gain clinical certification in Family Medicine and to have
opportunities to enhance knowledge and skills in focused areas such as
research, education, health system leadership, and global health.

The program will ensure that residents are provided with learning and
assessment opportunities that meet Royal College, program, and personal
objectives.

## Selection process goals

The PHPM residency program is looking for residents who are committed to
clinical excellence, health equity, and improving population health.
Candidates must demonstrate:

  * Excellent clinical skills to be admitted to, and successfully complete, the two-year residency program in the Department of Family and Community Medicine* (DFCM) at the University of Toronto.
  * Excellent quantitative skills and academic achievement to be admitted to and successfully complete a Master's program involving population health, epidemiology, and biostatistics.
  * An understanding of the field of public health and preventive medicine, motivation to train and pursue a career in this field.
  * Potential to contribute to the program and to have a future impact on the field.
  * Very strong oral and written communications skills.

Candidates who rank highly on the above criteria through the ﬁle review will
be considered for an interview. Final ranking will be based on the scores of
their application and interview.. The selection committee reserves the right
to adjust ﬁle review, interview scoring and ﬁnal rankings by consensus to
address the program's priorities

_*Please note that the DFCM residency program is involved in our selection
process, as the first two years of training in family medicine largely occur
under the supervision of the DFCM, in partnership with the Public Health and
Preventive Medicine residency program at the University of Toronto._

## File review process

Review team composition : The file review team consists of faculty and
residents who individually assess applications. Please see the 'Supporting
Documents' section for a description of required documents used during file
review.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Demonstrated interest and experience in PHPM practice (and/or research).   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  At least one PHPM elective is required - this can be a virtual elective.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  No examinations are evaluated during the file review process.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Please refer to CV section above and include relevant details in your personal letter   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Demonstrated leadership, collaboration and/or teamwork experience.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Overall academic excellence.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstrates interest, knowledge, and motivation in PHPM.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Demonstrates students' leadership, professionalism, motivation, and knowledge in PHPM as well as preparedness for the residency program. At least one letter should be from a PHPM specialist.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Any previous research experience(s).   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Overall academic excellence and completion of a biostatistics course or equivalent.   
Other file component(s) |  Any relevant additional documents   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We also value diverse clinical elective experiences, including clinical
electives with a population health focus (e.g., Indigenous health, refugee
health, homelessness, TB, HIV, etc.). For Canadian medical students who are
interested in electives, please contact the Program Coordinator
(phpm.progasst@utoronto.ca). International medical student elective positions
are determined by a lottery system administered through the UofT electives
office, and not through the residency program.

PHPM applicants should have at least one PHPM elective; onsite electives are
not required

The first two years of family medicine training are mandatory in the
University of Toronto PHPM residency program.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Demonstrates experience collaborating with others.   
Collegiality |  Interpersonal communication skills are expected but not formally evaluated.   
Communication skills |  Demonstrates ability to communicate clearly.   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrates awareness and promotion of health determinants.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrates interest and understanding of the discipline.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrates interest and understanding of the PHPM program at UofT.   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrates leadership skills, experience and competency.   
Professionalism |  Demonstrates professional and ethical conduct   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this in the interview component; it is evaluated in the file review.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Quick Facts:

  * There are approximately 10-15 residents in our program at any given time and approximately 100 field and university-based faculty associated with the program. This is the largest Public Health and Preventive Medicine residency program in Canada, offering a rich and varied range of training opportunities.
  * Graduates from this program have the opportunity to earn CCFP, MPH (or equivalent), and FRCPC qualifications.
  * Graduates from this program pursue careers in public health leadership positions at local, provincial, federal, and international public health agencies, government and non-governmental agencies. Others follow academic and research career paths, while others still choose to work in focused clinical areas such as addictions, immigrant health, and global health.
  * Residents iteratively discuss their training pathway with the Program Directors and the Residency Program Committee to tailor it to meet their personal learning objectives within the Royal College and program competencies framework.
  * Resident field rotations occur at sites affiliated with an accredited Public Health and Preventive Medicine residency program as well as through elective rotations in a variety of settings within Canada and internationally.
  * PHPM is a recognized entry route for subspecialty training in Occupational Medicine by the RCPSC. For more details, please refer to the Occupational Medicine Residency Program description.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The program is designed to prepare Public Health and Preventive Medicine
specialists with a comprehensive knowledge of the basic and applied academic
disciplines of public health and preventive medicine and the skills to apply
this knowledge to a broad range of settings such as public health practice,
health sector leadership, teaching and research, and community-oriented
clinical practice.

The Royal College of Physicians & Surgeons of Canada (RCPSC) requires 5 years
of post-MD training in Public Health and Preventive Medicine. This includes:

  * 1 to 2 years of clinical training.
  * A minimum of 2 semesters of academic work in Public Health and Preventive Medicine.
  * A minimum of 18 months of Public Health and Preventive Medicine field placements.

The PHPM residency program at the University of Toronto is a 5-year program
that includes the following:

PGY-1 & 2: Residents must complete 24 months (26 blocks) of training within
the Family Medicine residency program and are expected to obtain certification
in family medicine (CCFP). This training provides residents with diverse
clinical exposures to a variety of health problems and health system
organizations relevant to the study of public health and preventive medicine,
while at the same time preparing trainees for their training exams.

PGY-3: The majority of residents complete an MPH (or equivalent) during the
PGY-3 year. Residents interested in pursuing graduate opportunities outside of
the University of Toronto are required to meet the 12 months expectation and
ensure that the core of epidemiology, biostatistics, health system, health
policy, health promotion, and research methods are included at an appropriate
level of depth and breadth. This must be approved by the Program Director.

Residents with prior graduate training in relevant fields can request credit
through the Royal College to shorten training, or use the year of training to
complete additional graduate work or field rotations.

PGY-4 & 5: Residents have 18-24 months or more for public health field
rotations depending on the length of their graduate training and previous
experience.

The 20 core blocks of field training include:

  * 2 blocks of Public Health Systems and Practice (PHSP)
  * 3 blocks of Communicable Disease Control (CD)
  * 3 blocks of Environmental Health (EH)
  * 3 blocks of Health Policy, Systems, Evaluation and Planning (HPSEP)
  * 3 blocks of Chronic Disease, Health Promotion and Injury Prevention (ChrDHPIP)
  * 6 blocks of Leadership, Management and Consolidation (LMC)

Residents typically book 6 blocks of electives during their PGY4-5 years.

Although there is no requirement to do rural public health rotations, for
residents wishing to pursue rotations outside of Toronto, certain public
health units are able to provide travel and housing stipends. Access to a
vehicle may be required for some rotations.

* Eﬀective July 1, 2024, all Public Health and Preventive residents at the University of Toronto entering PGY1 will be required to complete all of the web based PGCorEd core competency modules as part of their residency program certiﬁcation. These modules provide the foundation for the non-Medical Expert roles for the Royal College of Physician and Surgeons of Canada Specialty Programs. Completion of these modules will be required before the end of the PGY2 year. Failure to complete the modules will delay processing of CCFP certiﬁcation and may constitute professional misconduct.



### Research

All residents are expected to become competent in research and scholarly
activities, including various research methodologies relevant to public health
and preventive medicine. This will be demonstrated in an academic project
undertaken during PGY3-5. Residents who have interest in gaining additional
research competencies and experience will have opportunities to engage in
research electives and other work with faculty and colleagues.

###  

### Academic Activities

During clinical training (PGY1-2), residents are encouraged to attend the
Public Health and Preventive Medicine program's academic half-days (Friday
mornings) and other academic activities when they can, during family medicine
block or as negotiated through longitudinal family medicine programs. During
clinical rotations, residents can attend rounds in person or virtually.

  
In the senior years (PGY3-5), residents are required to participate in person
in the program's educational academic half-day and other academic activities.
Residents are expected to prepare for academic half day and actively
participate as presenters and discussants. Other academic activities may
include training sessions, journal club, research activities and resident
wellness sessions – attendance at these is also required.  In addition to the
academic program, residents are encouraged to attend conferences and seminars
organized by public health organizations.

* * *

# Training Sites

### Training Sites

### The Public Health and Preventive Medicine program of the University of
Toronto provides a diverse range of public health and preventive medicine
field rotation placement and academic experiences. These include:

  * Many affiliated urban, suburban, and rural public health units including: Toronto Public Health, Peel Public Health, Simcoe Muskoka District Health Unit,  and Durham Region Health Department.
  * Affiliated provincial sites such as Public Health Ontario and the Chief Medical Officer of Health Office at the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  * Other sites accredited by other PHPM programs such as the Public Health Agency of Canada, various Northern Ontario Health Units, or Provincial/Territorial sites such as Nunavut CMOH Office or BCCDC. 

### Resources

 All residents receive full access to the University of Toronto library
holdings. This includes access to electronic search engines, electronic
indexes, as well as the several hundred electronic medical/health journals to
which the university subscribes.  
  

For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>

* * *

# Additional Information

  1. **Permanent Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education office in order to comply with current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry of Colleges and Universities
  2. **Matched applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data file to the matched university’s postgraduate education office. The postgraduate office will share the information as needed, but not limited to, the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:**  The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure to meet or provide proof**  of any of the stated requirements may result in applicant file being removed at any point during the match.

Applicants who are interested in attending Friday morning rounds (a standard
part of the academic half-day) should contact the Program Coordinator
([phpm.progasst@utoronto.ca](mailto:phpm.progasst@utoronto.ca)) as well as the
PHPM chief resident ([phpmchief@gmail.com](mailto:phpmchief@gmail.com)).  



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27141?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27141