#  Western University - Urology - London  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 03, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Jennifer Bjazevic  

Address Urology  
Office: St. Joseph's Hospital  
268 Grosvenor Street, Room B4-654  
London, ON, Ontario, N6A 4V2  

Work  (519) 646-6100, x64405

Cell

Websites of Interest [ Division of Urology
](http://www.schulich.uwo.ca/urology)  
[ Graduate Education - MSc in Surgery
](https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/surgery/graduate-education)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Kimberly Nitz

Title: Urology Program Administrator

Email: kim.nitz@sjhc.london.on.ca

Phone: 519.646.6100 x64405

  

Name: Dr. Peter Wang

Title: Program Director

Email: peter.wang@lhsc.on.ca

  

Name: Dr. Jeffrey Campbell

Title: Assistant Program Director

Email: jeffrey.campbell@sjhc.london.on.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Residency Training Program Start Date:

All programs at Western University will commence on July 1, 2025 with a one-
day orientation in London, Ontario (date to be determined).

Western Urology will be providing Open Houses/Fireside Chats to potential
applicants.  

In the first month, the program will organize an orientation during an
academic half day to meet with the Program Directors, Program Administrator
and the Chief Residents (together or separate) to go over the basics of
starting a Urology residency at Western.  

In addition, there will be other mandatory orientations for our incoming
residents (dates to be determined):

\- Urology Bootcamp (in collaboration with McMaster and Toronto Universities)

\- Department of Surgery PGY1 Boot Camp (two week camp Monday-Friday)

\- PGME Transition to Residency program (one half-day weekly for 8 weeks)

\- First year urology residents are not assigned to call in the first month of
training



Social Events:

Western Urology will also host a couple of welcome events for the incoming
residents within the first two months of their start date.  The welcome
BBQ/Urology Olympics to meet resident and fellow colleagues and their
families.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Western Urology is pleased that you have taken interest in our program - thank
you!

Please read the instructions and important information carefully and contact
the Program Administrator if you have any questions.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided (by submitting one
of the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.
Failure to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.
No other forms of verification are acceptable.  

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of card must be provided and legible.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Reference letters do not need to be from any specific institution.  The
strength of the reference letter lies in the duration of interactions
applications have had with the faculty writing the letter and their
impression.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

File Review will be performed by the CaRMs Selection Committee and 2 faculty
members.

Weightage:

Curriculum Vitae = 30  
Letters of Reference = 20  
Personal Letter/Statement = 10  
Based on the file review (all have equal weightage), a rank list of 25
candidates is created and approximately 20 candidates are interviewed.

Interview = 40

Standardized questions and scenarios, conducted by the CaRMs Committee

Total scores assimilated (/100) and rank list created.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 8, 2025
  * February 9, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: All interviews will be conducted virtually
prior to February 10, 2025. Candidates will be notified via email from the
program if an interview has been granted, and applicants will be notified
directly regarding the date/time of the virtual interview.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All selected candidates will be
interviewed over the same one or two days, as part of the Canadian Urology
Fair.  The interview will be conducted by three or four faculty members
(including the Program Director and the Assistant Program Director), as well
as two urology residents. All members of the interview panel individually mark
the applicants and the average marks are tallied.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates should have an interest in and an aptitude for urology. Reference
letters in related specialties will aid in the selection process.

Interview selection is based on evaluation of curriculum vitae and other CaRMS
application documents.

The current CaRMS Selection Committee for the Division of Urology at the
Schulich School of Medicine & Dentistry, Western University:

\- Dr. Peter Wang, Program Director

\- Dr. Jeffrey Campbell, Assistant Program Director

\- Dr. Jennifer Bjazevic, CaRMs Committee member

\- Dr. Nicholas Power, Urology Wellness representative, Residency Training
Committee member

\- Dr. Bruce Li, PGY4 in Urology

\- Dr. Danny Matti, PGY3 in Urology



## Program goals

**Urology Residency Program Goals**  

**Empowering Future Leaders in Urology:  
** Our Urology Residency Program is dedicated to training outstanding surgeons
who are committed to providing exceptional patient-centered care across
Canada. We offer comprehensive experience designed to ensure your success,
whether you aim for an academic career or community practice. **  
**

**Comprehensive Training Experience:  
** Our program provides broad exposure to all urology subspecialties within an
academic setting, complemented by regular rotations through community
practices (Locations available include Windsor, Sarnia, and Stratford within
Western's Distributed Education Network. Housing is typically arranged and
financed by the university.). This dual approach ensures a well-rounded
clinical learning experience, preparing you for diverse career opportunities.
**  
**

**Excellence in Education:  
** Our curriculum is guided by the educational standards of both the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada and the American Board of
Urology. Our faculty includes nationally and internationally recognized
leaders, alongside dedicated community adjunct faculty, all committed to your
education and professional growth. **  
**

**Lifelong Passion for Scholarship:  
** We strive to instill a lifelong passion for scholarship by inspiring and
supporting your academic pursuits, whether in clinical, basic science, or
educational research. Our robust mentorship program ensures that you receive
personalized guidance, making the daunting task of career planning manageable
and effective.  Our program has a formal mentorship model in which residents
are matched with a consultant based on career goals, clinical and academic
interests. Regular engagement between the mentors and mentees is encouraged
within the division. **  
**

**Work-Life Balance and Resident Well-being:  
** We prioritize a balance between educational needs, work-life balance, and
resident safety. Our program is designed to maintain your enthusiasm and joy
for learning, ensuring a fulfilling and sustainable residency experience. This
includes supporting a resident wellness lead with an independent budget and
year-round social events to promote a sense of community such as our Resident
Olympics and resident ran wellness retreat.  **  
**

Junior residents are supported by the new week-based night float on call
system - junior residents are always backed up by a senior resident who is
available to discuss cases, and ensures junior residents have the daytime off
to rest in between call shifts.

Resident wellness days are built into the academic curriculum (time off of
academic obligations dedicated to personal wellness to fit learning and
personal needs.

**Continuous Improvement and Responsiveness:  
** We believe in the importance of resident feedback and are committed to
evolving our program based on your input. This responsiveness ensures that our
training environment continuously improves, enhancing the experience and
success of our trainees. **  
**

Join us in our mission to train the next generation of urology leaders.
Embrace the opportunity to grow, learn, and excel in a program that values
your success, well-being, and voice.

## Selection process goals

Selection process goals are as follows:

1.  Select candidates with an interest in urology as a lifetime career

2.  Select candidates with an aptitude for urology

3.  Select candidates who are professional and are team players

4.  Select candidates who are compassionate and strive for exemplary patient care

5.  Select candidates who have exemplary work ethics and a sense of responsibility

6.  Select candidates who are committed to lifelong learning

7.  Selection of candidates will be objective, unbiased and adhere to the principles of inclusion, equity and diversity

## File review process

Review team composition : Resident selection is a vital component of a
residency training committee. The CaRMS Selection Committee is subcommittee of
the Residency Program Committee and is tasked with determining the selection
criteria and developing and refining the selection process to ensure it is
fair and unbiased, following the principles of Equity, Diversion and Inclusion
(EDI).  
  
The review team is chaired by the Program Director, and membership includes
the Assistant Program Director, a minimum of 2 divisional faculty and 2
resident representatives (resident representatives include a junior and a
senior resident). two members of the CaRMs Committee and two elected Urology
residents. A minimum of two additional volunteers may also be recruited as
file reviewers.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Evidence of work experience, volunteer experience and work-life balance   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Must demonstrate a strong academic performance to be considered for an interview   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component, unless there is a red flag   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of coping mechanisms and work-life balance   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of leadership roles, duration and accomplishments   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evidence of rotational performance and evaluation rotational failures   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Evidence of personal and academic achievement, life learning experiences, goals: we want to know who you are as a person   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  All documents/files submitted will be reviewed by the committee   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Evidence of pulications and/or involvement in scholarly work   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Assess courses taken and evaluation failures   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We prefer applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  This will be evaluated directly or indirectly using standardized case-based scenario   
Collegiality |  This will be evaluated directly or indirectly using standarized case-based scenario   
Communication skills |  Evaluated throughout interview by observing the candidate answering questions (verbal & nonverbal)   
Health advocacy |  This will be evaluated directly or indirectly using standardized case-based scenario   
Interest in the discipline |  This will be evaluated by asking the rationale for their choice of urology as a lifetime career, as well as review of curriculum vitae and choices of electives   
Interest in the program |  This will be evaluated by asking the rationale for choosing our program for residency, together with performance during elective (if applicable)   
Leadership skills |  This will be evaluated directly or indirectly using standardized case-based scenario   
Professionalism |  This will be evaluated directly or indirectly using standardized case-based scenario   
Scholarly activities |  This will be evaluated directly or Indirectly by questions surrounding research/scholarly experiences from CV   
Other interview component(s) |  We have 5 scenario based questions which assess the criteria we want in our residents. The questions are developed and revised every year but the themes are similar. Each panelist will ask a question and we all mark individually.  
The Western Urology interview experience will be fun, stress free, collegial
and fair.  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  pre-determined flags on standardized scenario questions  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**The Western Urology program ensures:**

**1.  Balanced training for academic and community practice**

**2\. Mentored to achieve career goals**

**3\. Supportive and safe learning environment**

**4\. Responsive Program**



**SUBSPECIALITIES OFFERED:**

Andrology  
EndoUrology  
Incontinence and Reconstruction  
Pediatric Urology  
Transplantation  
Uro-Oncology



**HIGHLIGHTS OF THE UROLOGY PROGRAM, WESTERN UNIVERSITY:**

**1\. Masters of Surgery:  **In conjunction with the Department of Surgery,
the Division of Urology offers a **_Master of Science in Surgery_** (in the
PGY1 or PGY2 years).  This MSc is tailored to the unique needs of surgical
trainees; providing an intensive research experience and a solid foundation
for success as an academic surgeon.  The MSc in Surgery is intended to fully
prepare individuals specifically seeking future positions in Academic Health
Science Centres for the demands of a research career in relation to the
CanMeds roles of Medical Expert and Scholar.  

**2\. Simulation opportunities and labs:**

  * Live pig/simulation training session (pig lab every second year, alternating with simulation training session every second year)
  * Regular cadaveric anatomy lab sessions (integrated into curriculum)
  * Access to percutaneous nephrolithotomy simulator and endoscopic uromentor
  * access to CSTAR (Canadian Surgical Technologies and Advanced Robotics)
  * access DaVinci robotic simulator
  * Annual robotic training lab at CSTAR (Canadian Surgical Technologies and Advanced Robotics)

**3\. Grant and conference support:**

  * Every resident has a $1,500-$2,000 travel grant/year (PGY4s have $2,000 per year)
  * Residents who have a paper/abstract at a meeting can apply to 2/3 additional grants of up to $2, 000
  * There is a Dr Brock travel fellowship for meetings/courses for up to $5,000 per year
  * Grant opportunities: Department of Surgery and Schulich School of Medicine grants for residents up to $5,000 project
  * Lavergne Resident and Fellow Research Grants

4\. **Robotic training and curriculum:**

  * All 3 sites have a robot
  * Only pediatric centre performing robotic surgery in Canada
  * Developing/in the process of implementing a robotic curriculum for Urology residents

**5\. Exam preparation:  **

  * Bi-Annual Objective Structured Clinical Exams (OSCE)

**6\. Funding:**

  * Allocated budget for Campbell's of Urology textbooks and loupes for each resident
  * Resident Wellness budget run by the resident representative

**7\. Social events:**

  * Annual Urology Olympics
  * Annual Christmas Party
  * Bi-annual Resident Dinners
  * Annual team building/wellness event

**8\. Mentorship:  **

  * Mentorship Program (one on one resident-faculty mentors, senior resident mentors)

**9\. Wellness initiatives:  **

  * Elected resident and faculty wellness representatives
  * Defined Wellness budget ($2,500) run by the Resident rep





* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Please see details on our website at:

**https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/urology/education/postgraduate/index.html  **

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

The teaching hospitals which participate in the urology program are the London
Health Sciences Centre (University Hospital and Victoria Hospital) and St.
Joseph's Health Care London. The program serves as the secondary referral area
of Southwestern Ontario and a tertiary referral extending to
Northern/Northwestern Ontario, as well as the rest of the province for
specialized services such as extra corporeal shock wave lithotripsy.

All three hospital training training sites have access to robotic surgery.  

There are 14 teaching faculty (transplantation = 2, endourology = 3, uro-
oncology = 4, pediatrics = 2, andrology = 1, reconstruction = 1, pediatrics =
2) in the division currently and 12 adjunct professors in community urology
(Sarnia, Windsor, Woodstock, and Stratford).



In addition , we have defined community sites which include Faculty defined as
adjunct Faculty of our Program. These include:

Sarnia ( Dr Paul Martin)

Windsor (Dr Ryan McLarty)



* * *

# Additional Information

*Western University has three (3) PGY-1 positions available for the 2025 match.

*the Urology Training Program does not have any allocated IMG positions and, therefore, will not be considering international medical graduates for the 2025 match.

All information contained is subject to change until such time as the rank
order lists are filed. Please ensure you review information on a regular
basis.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27438?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27438