#  McGill University - Family Medicine - Montreal  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Regular Stream including MOTP/MMTP for All  

##  Last approved on November 20, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 81

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Fanny Hersson-Edery  

Address Family Medicine  
5858 Côtes des Neiges  
3rd floor  
Montreal QC , Quebec, H3S 1Z1  

Work  (514) 399-9127

Websites of Interest [ McGill Faculty of Medicine
](http://www.mcgill.ca/familymed/)  
[ Program Video ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q_iYkfOFi7A)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Ms Alana Walsh-Ferland

Title: Postgraduate Program Administrator

Email: postgrad.fammed@mcgill.ca

Phone: 514-399-9126

  

Name: Ms Julie Lane

Title: Postgraduate Program Manager

Email: julie.lane@mcgill.ca

Phone: 514-399-9127

  

* * *

# Important Information

**All applicants applying to McGill Family Medicine must upload their FM ProC
(Situational Judgement test) with their supporting  ****documents. Please
refer to the examinations section in CARMS for these details. Additional
information about the test is available at  https://fmproc.com/ **

**FAQs:**
<https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/sites/default/files/teams/128/FMProC/FMProC_CProMF%202025_FAQs_V2.0%2024-07-25%20ENG.pdf>

**Information document** :
<https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/sites/default/files/teams/128/FMProC/FMProC_CProMF%202025_Information_V2.0%2024-07-25%20ENG%20Clean.pdf>

**** JULY 2025**** : Grand opening of our 12th FMG-U site at Lakeshore
Hospital in Pointe-Claire. Consult the Training Site section for more details
about our Lakeshore Hospital teaching unit.

Quick Facts -Two months of inter-provincial or international electives are
allowed outside Quebec but will be approved on a case-by-case basis.

There is a mandatory 8-week consecutive rural rotation in the PGY2 year.
Opportunities for rural experiences for up to six additional months are also
available.

McGill Family Medicine will conduct an internal "mini-match" for applicants
who match to the**Montreal program** , to distribute them to the seven
teaching sites in Montreal. Applicants to the Montreal program MUST submit a
preference list (or mini-match rank order list) to the Department of Family
Medicine following the interview period. Failing to submit this rank order
list by the specified date will mean that you will lose your prerogative to
choose your McGill family medicine training site. This internal mini-match
applies to all McGill GMF-U teaching sites  EXCEPT CISSS de l'Outaouais, CISSS
Vallée de l'Or (Val d'Or) which are listed seperately in CaRMS.

**The Montérégie program** which consists of the the**GMF-U de Jardins
Roussillon (Châteauguay) and the GMF-U de Vaudreuil** are also listed
seperately in CaRMS. Applicants who match to this program will also  submit a
mini-match list to determine their assigned GMF-U after the results are
released.

Electronic medical records are used at all teaching sites.

An attraction of the McGill program is its location in a cosmopolitan French
milieu.**A strength in applying to our program will be the ability to
communicate with patients in both English and French.  ** Candidates will be
expected to be able to converse with patients upon the start of residency. For
those who wish to improve their French language skills once in Montreal,
French courses, including a medicine component, are available at McGill at a
reasonable cost. **Candidates selected for interviews will be required to
answer questions in both English and French.**



**Visit our Department website to see our videos describing our Program, our
resident experience video and our teaching unit videos!  **

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zz9GGjHjUsM&feature=emb_title ( Introduction
to our program)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-CkziEunM24&feature=emb_title  ( resident
experience)

https://www.mcgill.ca/familymed/teachingsites/fmu ( teaching unit videos )





* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

Documents can be submitted in either **French and /or English.**



* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP must be submitted with each application.  
EITHER:

  * A copy of Canadian Birth Certificate or a copy of Certificate of Canadian Citizenship

OR

  * A copy of Permanent Resident Card (copy of both sides of the card) OR a copy of an IMM 5292, IMM 1000, IMM 5688;   
NB: the Permanent Resident card can be expired.

OR

  * A copy of Citizenship Card (copy of both sides of the card)

P.S: the passport is not an acceptable proof of citizenship.

Each year, all candidates applying in a CaRMS match must provide proof of
valid current citizenship or permanent resident status. As of the 2021 R-1
match cycle, CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate
the citizenship/legal status verification, which is usually completed by
Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) offices.

if an applicant has had their citizenship/legal status documentation verified
by any of the following organizations for the current R-1 match, the applicant
will not be required to assign a proof of citizenship/PR document (as pictured
in the screenshot below).

  * Medical Council of Canada ([MCC](https://mcc.ca/))
  * British Columbia's Clinical Assessment Program ([BC-CAP](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/clinical-assessment/))
  * Bureau de cooperation interuniversitaire ([BCI](https://www.bci-qc.ca/en/))
  * Alberta International Medical Graduate Program ([AIMG](https://www.aimg.ca/))

For further information, please check the following link on CaRMS:
[https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-
citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-)

Examinations

Required

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).



Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the MCCQE Part I exam, please include the statement of
results and supplemental information report in your application.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the NAC exam, please include the statement of results and
supplemental information report in your application. The MCCQE Part II or
Certificate of Registration of the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada
(LMCC) is accepted in place of the NAC Examination.

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Three Family Medicine Structured Reference Letters are required. The first
three structured reference letters on file will be reviewed. Any extra letters
will not be reviewed. **Structured  Reference letters must be from physicians,
but NOT from physicians still in training (residents/medical students)**.
Structured Reference letters should be obtained from academic or practicing
physicians.

Letters of recommendation by research supervisors will not be considered a
strong recommendation of the candidate's clinical skills.

**Family Medicine structured reference letters may be submitted in either
English or French.**

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

A personal letter is required ( Approximate maximum 500 words= 1 Page).

It should address the following: a brief autobiographical sketch; why you
chose Family Medicine as your career choice; your personal qualities that you
feel will be an asset to your career; your other personal interests outside of
medicine; your plans for the future; why you wish to do your residency at
McGill; or what you would like us to know about you that would make us
consider your application. It is important to demonstrate your understanding
of the discipline of Family Medicine in this letter.

You may submit your personal letter in either English or French.

**Personal letters that are written in English must include at least 1
paragraph in French**.

Custom Résumé / CV

Curriculum Vitae/CV is required.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

 A photograph is required and will be used as a memory aid.

Conditionally required

Proof of most recent clinical experience

**IMG Candidates:**

Candidates are encouraged to provide a formal letter from their employer
detailing the clinical responsibilities that were performed during the period
of employment. These letters are encouraged to be provided if they can be
obtained.

Additional required IMG documents

Lettre de reconnaissance de l'équivalence du diplôme MD

Please provide the results of the exams that permitted you to have your
medical degree recognized and approved by the CMQ.

Graduates with the diploma of doctor of osteopathy awarded by a school of
osteopathic medicine situated in the United States providing that the school
is accredited by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the
American Osteopathic Association do not have to obtain the recognition of the
equivalence of the medical diploma by the CMQ. These graduates do not require
the MCCQE Part I, the National Assessment Collaboration (NAC), or the
Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada (LMCC) in order to apply.

Medical School Diploma

**For IMGs:** In addition to a copy of your Medical Degree, it isnecessary to
provide the equivalence letter from the CMQ (Collège des médecins du Québec).

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 27, 2025
  * January 29, 2025
  * February 4, 2025
  * February 6, 2025

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews are required if offered to
applicants. Interviews in Montreal will be held by ZOOM on four separate days.
On the day of the interview, candidates will be issued an internal mini-match
rank order list which MUST be submitted by the end of February. The mini-match
survey will ask you to rank in order of preference **four of the eight
Montreal sites**. The eight Montreal sites include three teaching units (CLSC
Cote-des-Neiges, Herzl Family Practice Centre at the Jewish General Hospital,
or  St- Mary's Family Practice Centre, ) and four satellite sites (CLSC Metro,
CLSC Parc-Extension, the Queen Elizabeth Health Complex and GMF-U Mednam and
the **GMF-U Lakeshore Hospital-- opening July 2025).**  
  
 A presentation of the various aspects of our program and virtual tours of the
local teaching units will be presented during the days of the interviews.
Residents will be available to answer questions from candidates.  
  
One faculty member will interview the applicant following review of his/her
dossier. The interview is approximately 20 minutes in duration.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

A strong academic record which demonstrates special proficiency in those
subjects related to our discipline.

At least one structured Family Medicine reference letter should be from an
academic or practicing family physician. Structured reference letters should
comment on the applicant's interest and proficiency in family medicine as well
as his or her interpersonal skills.

Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.

Fluency in spoken and written English is required for the training sites in
Montreal (CLSC Cote-des-Neiges, CLSC Metro, CLSC Parc-Extension, Herzl Family
Practice Centre at the Jewish General Hospital, the Queen Elizabeth Health
Complex, St Mary's Hospital Family Medicine Centre, GMF-U Mednam and the GMF-U
Lakeshore).

**All candidates require sufficient****comprehension of French and the ability
to assess and manage a patient in French at all sites.  Applicants will be
asked at least 2 questions in French during the interview, to assess their
ability to converse in French.**

Candidates with an interest and proven experience in research, both in basic
science and clinical research, are encouraged to apply.

**In addition to the language requirements, preference will be given to
candidates who meet the following criteria:**

Candidates who have obtained their medical school diploma, residency training
or have significant independent clinical practice within the last 4 years,
prior to the submission of their application (by **September 2020**).
Candidates are encouraged to submit a formal attestation from their employer
citing the nature of the clinical work that was performed. (Please see the
supporting document section for additional details) In addition, of those
candidates who have independent clinical experience, preference will be given
to candidates who have had recent and continuous practice (at least 12 full
months in the last 4 years).  **Observerships are not considered as
significant clinical practice.**

**To be noted:** Preference will also be given to candidates who have prior
residency training or relevant clinical experience in one of the following
fields: General or Family medicine, emergency medicine, internal medicine,
pediatrics, obstetrics-gynecology, psychiatry, anesthesiology and general
surgery. Preference will also be given to IMG candidates who, within the last
two years have been determined to be eligible for residency after having
successfully completed the "Stage de mise a niveau" that has been put into
place by CEDIS and their partners**. If candidates have successfully completed
the CEDIS program, copies of their rotation evaluations and the confirmation
stating the successful completion of the program must be submitted with their
application.**

## Program goals

The Department of Family Medicine offers a fully accredited two-year
postgraduate training program based in a university family medicine group
practice (GMF-U or groupe de medecine familiale universitaire). At all of our
GMF-U locations, the program offers three main components: comprehensive and
longitudinal family medicine practice, coordinated training in the medical
specialties, and exposure to rural medicine practice.

The programs in our GMF-Us include a comprehensive curriculum, which focuses
on management of common patient problems in an ambulatory setting. Principles
of family dynamics, utilization of community resources, and optimal
cooperation with allied health professionals in providing continuity of care
are also emphasized in the two-year curriculum.

At McGill, we have systematically aligned both our clinical and academic
curriculum with the College of Family Physician's Evaluation Objectives **(105
Priority topics)**. Our ultimate goal is to prepare our residents to become
competent family physicians for the practice of medicine as **lifelong
learners.**

## Selection process goals

 **Candidates selected for interviews will demonstrate the following****:  **

  1. **  **Applications submitted to our program must be **complete  **in order to be reviewed by our selection committee.

  2. A strong academic record which demonstrates special proficiency in those subjects related to our discipline.

  3. Medical knowledge and strong communication, collaboration, and interpersonal skills pertinent to the practice of Family Medicine.

  4. ** ****Language Requirements:   ** Fluency in spoken and written English is required for the GMF-Us in Montreal (CLSC Cote-des-Neiges, CLSC Metro, CLSC Parc-Extension, Herzl Family Practice Centre at the Jewish General Hospital, the Queen Elizabeth Health Complex, St Mary's Hospital Family Medicine Centre, the GMF-U Mednam and the GMF-U Lakeshore). **Spoken and written French sufficient to evaluate a patient is also required at these sites and  selected applicants should be able to demonstrate in their applications that they have an adequate knowledge of both spoken and written French.  Selected candidates will be required to answer questions in both French and English during their interviews. **

  5. Participation and involvement in Family Medicine related interest groups such as FamSIG, Family Medicine Undergrad Education Committees, Family Medicine Symposiums, and FMF are highly regarded by the selection committee. 



## File review process

Review team composition : The selection committee is comprised of the program
director, the associate program directors, the site program directors, and the
Postgraduate Adminsitrative team members.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 401 - 600  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Language skills, interests outside medicine, electives done in medical school, past work experience.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We look for a broad range of elective experiences that are pertinent to family medicine.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Solid exam results   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Work/life balance, interests outside of medicine, involvement in student life.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Ability to work in teams, participation in committee work pertinent to Family Medicine, advocacy.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Performance during medical school, identified strengths and weaknesses, competencies related to Family Medicine.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in the Family Medicine program, knowledge of competencies for our discipline, language requirements.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Interest in Family Medicine competencies, medical knowledge, and collaboration pertinent to family medicine.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research projects/ publications pertinent to family medicine.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic standing ( explained failures/ leaves of absences).   
Other file component(s) |  Demonstrated or credible interest in working in Quebec and in living in Montreal.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for applicants who have taken or are
planning a broad range of electives.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work in teams, with allied health professionals, and with other learners.   
Collegiality |  Approachability, kindness, and empathy are assessed through answers to various interview questions.   
Communication skills |  Ability to communicate thoughts and impressions, eye contact, ability to speak both English & French.   
Health advocacy |  Is able to demonstrate patient centered care, ability to support patients and help navigate the health care system, contributes to health promotion and disease prevention.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstration of a keen interest and genuine motivation towards family medicine.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstration of a prior review of our program's features & a genuine interest in living in Montreal/Qc.   
Leadership skills |  Viewed in the CV and MSPR, in the spirit of identifying applicants’passions and advocacy interests.   
Professionalism |  Evaluated prior to the interview (structured reference letters, MSPR, personal letter) and throughout interview.   
Scholarly activities |  CV& MSPR for evidence of a spirit of inquiry and understanding of lifelong learning.   
Other interview component(s) |  Our interviews are structured so that the interviewers have the opportunity to get to know our candidates personally. Questions asked to the applicants will be based on the information submitted in the application documents. The interviews serve the purpose of ensuring a candidate's strengths, competencies and clinical interests meet the criteria we're looking for in family medicine at McGill. The interviews also serve as an opportunity for us to clarify any elements of a candidate's dossier that are considered unclear.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  Insufficient ability to speak French or English during the interview.  
Clear lack of motivation towards Family Medicine.  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The two-year curriculum provides a "horizontal model" of primary care.
Residents will have responsibility for their own practice and will have their
own clearly identified patients.

There is a mandatory, two-month rural rotation.  Residents are eligible for
travel allowances paid by the rural site, and accommodations are also
provided.

The following block rotations are primarily spent in a hospital setting, with
half-days back in Family Medicine for patient clinics and teaching:

  * - Emergency (4 weeks)
  * \- Paediatric Ward (4 weeks)
  * \- Paediatric Ambulatory Care (4 weeks)
  * \- Paediatric ER (4 weeks)
  * \- Hospital (Ward) Medicine (4 weeks)
  * \- Obstetrics (4- 6 weeks site-dependent)
  * \- Care of the Elderly (4 weeks)
  * \- Palliative Care ( 4 weeks)

The following mixed rotations are combined with half-time Family Medicine
patient clinics:

  * \- Mental Health / Family Medicine (12 weeks)
  * \- Emergency / Family Medicine (8 weeks)
  * \- Hospital (Ward) / Family Medicine (8 weeks)
  * \- Parent-Child (including Newborn Medicine) / Family Medicine (8 weeks)
  * \- Procedural Skills / Family Medicine (8 weeks)

There are three elective rotations (4 weeks each) and two selective rotations
of (4 weeks) which can be chosen from a wide-range of options. One of these
selective rotations must be in an acute care setting (ICU, ER, CCU or NICU).

Holidays, Study Leaves and Conference leaves are granted according to the
provincial resident contract.

**Seminars:**

Three to six hours per week are spent, on average, in a variety of family
medicine-based teaching.

**PGY-3**

The core program is generally completed in two years. Third year Enhanced
Skills programs for additional training are available in Emergency Medicine,
Care of the Elderly, Palliative Care, Sports and Exercise Medicine,
Maternal/Child Health Care, Hospitalist Medicine and Clinician Scholars
Program (may include 2 year Research stream). These may be available to
appropriate candidates upon application.

A critical appraisal/quality assurance project is required. There are further
research opportunities for interested residents.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

**Residents interested in the Gatineau program, the Montérégie (Châteauguay +
Vaudreuil) progam and  the Val d'Or program must apply directly to
McGill/Gatineau CaRMS match and/or McGill/Montérégie CaRMS match and/or
McGill/Val d'Or CaRMS Match.**

**The CLSC Côte-des-Neiges (CIUSSS de Centre-Ouest-de-l'ile-de Montréal**) is
an exciting ambulatory care teaching centre located in the heart of an urban
Montreal multicultural neighbourhood. The teaching staff includes family
physicians with diverse interests, nurse practitioners, nurses and
psychologists. Our goal is to have the most rigorous clinical training in the
most supportive environment for our 12 new residents per year. Ability to
assess patients in both French and English is essential at CLSC Côtes des
Neiges in order to care for the patient population, and the ability to speak
other languages is extremely useful. The language of instruction is
predominantly English, but notes may be written in English or French.

Special features include: a varied patient population of all ages from cradle
to grave; a high proportion of immigrant and refugee patients; a resident
centered approach to clinical practice and teaching; high quality academic
half days that are practical and interactive, including interim training
examinations; physicians with active obstetrical practices and a strong
women’s health focus; physicians with special interests including clinical
genetics, hospitalist work, palliative care, informatics and refugee care; a
shared care model with Paediatrics, Obstetrics and Mental Health; a renovated
facility with natural light, a resident lounge and a conference teaching room.
Residents will acquire their own family medicine practices at the CLSC and
complete their in-hospital rotations at the JGH, SMH and other community
hospitals.

**CLSC Metro**  is a « satellite site » within the **CIUSSS de Centre-Ouest-
de-l'ile-de Montréal**. Four new residents each year are trained in this
community setting. Situated in downtown Montreal, the patient population
reflects the variety of urban dwellers: students, new immigrants, business
people working downtown, elderly shut-ins, etc. The language of instruction is
predominantly English, but notes may be written in English or French. The
patients speak a mixture of English, French and “other”. CLSC Métro has a
strong mental health team, an on-site laboratory, and easy access to all the
McGill-affiliated hospitals.  Academic half-day session occur at CLSC Côte-
des-Neiges. The off-service rotations are arranged at the Jewish General
Hospital and the Montreal Children’s Hospital, but access to other McGill
Hospitals is available for some rotations. This is an ideal site for a
resident who is interested in an urban, community-based setting.

**CLSC Parc- Extension  **is a**  "**satellite site" within the **CIUSSS de
Centre-Ouest-de-l'ile-de Montréal** , and is an exciting primary care teaching
centre for six new residents per year. It’s located in the heart of a vibrant,
multicultural neighborhood with diverse health issues. Education is
multidisciplinary and can be customized. Our team is small, and our members
include family physicians, nurse practitioners, social workers, interpreters
and administrative staff, all working in a collaborative and welcoming
atmosphere. Notre équipe est bilingue. Le français prédomine dans notre
milieu.

Our main goal is to provide a rigorous clinical education and offer support
throughout residency. At the CLSC PEX, we are proud to offer: a wide variety
of patients from diverse socioeconomic backgrounds; a large majority of
patients who have a migratory experience from low income countries; a clinical
approach based on the educational needs of residents; rooms with new equipment
and the latest technology; weekly half-day teaching sessions in an interactive
large group; supervising physicians with active practices in obstetrics and
social pediatrics; supervising physicians with interests in pediatrics, global
health, geriatrics, palliative care and mental health. Residents will shape
their practice in family medicine at the CLSC and complete their rotations in
hospital care at the McGill University Health Centre (MUHC) (Glen campus, MGH
and RVH).

**The Herzl Family Practice Centre**  is the family medicine out-patient unit
of the Jewish General Hospital (JGH). It includes both the Herzl Clinic where
patients are seen for scheduled visits and the CRIU (Clinique Réseau Intégrée
Universitaire), which houses our walk-in centre and a multitude of other
clinics and services. The patient population is multi-cultural with strong
representation from all age groups. It is a training centre for 23 new
residents per year, as well as fellows, medical students and nurse
practitioners. The JGH is a tertiary care hospital center with Family Medicine
as an integral part of many divisions within the Hospital including a
designated Family Medicine ward. The residents complete most of their in-
hospital rotations at the JGH. The primary language of day to day functioning
within the unit is English; however knowledge of spoken and comprehension of
French is essential.

**St Mary's Family Medicine Centre** is within St. Mary’s Hospital, a
Secondary Care Level institution. Family Physicians have a great deal of
presence at all levels of care at this center. The majority of residents in
this hospital are Family Medicine residents, meaning they obtain a great deal
of hands-on experience. There are 26 new residents per year assigned to this
site. The primary language of day to day functioning within the unit is
English; however knowledge of spoken and comprehension of French is essential.

**The Queen Elizabeth Health Centre:  **is a busy community practice in the
Notre-Dame-de-Grace area of Montreal. Five residents are accepted here as a
"satellite" teaching site of the St Mary's Family Medicine Centre. Residents
have their patient practices at the QEHC, with academic teaching at St Mary's
Hospital. The hospital rotations are primarily in the McGill University Health
Centre or MUHC (consisting of the Montreal General Hospital, the Royal
Victoria Hospital, and the Montreal Children's Hospital). Residents at this
site will have excellent exposure to procedural skills in the attached urgent
care clinic, as well as a good basis in hospitalist care through the rotations
at the MUHC. The clinic has state -of -the -art electronic medical records and
offers good preparation for practice management.

**GMF-U Mednam Lachine:  **Clinique Mednam is a new family medicine teaching
unit for McGill University. Located in Lachine, a suburbia of Montreal, it
offers a rich, multicultural patient population, with many new immigrants, and
a strong representation from all age groups. Bilingualism is required since
two thirds of our patients speak French, one third English, and a minority
neither language.

We have a dynamic team of young family physicians with diverse interests: from
emergency medicine, to hospitalist, to home care, to CHSLD, to palliative
care, to obstetrics and women’s health and finally, procedures. As the GMF-R
of the region, we also have a very active walk-in, treating patients for acute
issues from all over Montreal. Residents will be completing their core
hospital rotations at the Lachine and Lasalle Hospitals, with additional
varied experiences in the clinics and CLSCs of the region. Though not
necessary, having a car is highly encouraged. As for the family medicine
experience, residents will have their own roster of patients that they will be
following for the next two years. The family medicine rotations are
constructed in a longitudinal manner so that skills acquired at the beginning
of residency will be reinforced thorough the next two years.

**GMF-U Lakeshore (Pointe Claire):  **Located in the heart of Lakeshore
General Hospital, this **_new_** family medicine teaching unit offers a
dynamic and comprehensive training environment. The hospital is currently
undergoing a major revamp and modernization, including the development of a
state-of-the-art teaching simulation center, ensuring residents have access to
cutting-edge educational tools.

The West Island's population of approximately 238,000 is notably bilingual and
multicultural, with a plurality of anglophones and a significant French-
speaking community. Therefore, proficiency in both English and French is
essential for effective communication and patient care.

The teaching unit boasts a young, multilingual team of staff physicians with
expertise spanning elderly care, emergency medicine, palliative care,
maternity and child health, home care, and hospitalization. The facility
includes a full procedure room, a dedicated teaching room, a residents'
lounge, and several call rooms to support the residents' needs.

Residents will engage with a diverse patient population, developing a broad
range of skills through hands-on experience in a variety of settings. The
program is designed to foster continuity of care, with residents managing
their own patient rosters throughout their two-year residency.

**For more information about our teaching units- visit our website and watch
our videos** : https://www.mcgill.ca/familymed/teachingsites/fmu





**Rural Stream:** Residents enrolled in one of the Montreal units, Montérégie
program or Gatineau program will also be offered the option of completing a
maximum of 6 consecutive months at the CSSS du Pontiac in Shawville or at the
CSSS de la Vallée-de-l’Or in Val-d’Or. This 3-6 month program allows residents
to benefit from a practical, versatile, and diversified training which
directly correlates to the realities that rural regions often encounter. The
learning throughout this program occurs in a context of continuing care.  The
3- 6 month rural stream can begin either in July or January of the 2nd year
(PGY2) and consists of a variation of: 2 months of Family Medicine; 2
integrated months of Emergency/ Family Medicine; and 2 integrated months of
Procedural Skills/ Family Medicine.

The rural sites accredited to McGill are located in the following cities:
Buckingham, Chisasbi, Cowansville, Gatineau, Hudson, Huntingdon, Knowlton/Lac
Brome, Maniwaki, Mistissini, Ormstown, Puvirnituq, Rigaud, Salaberry-de-
Valleyfield,  Shawville, Temiscaming, Val-d'Or, Ville-Marie and Wakefield.

* * *

# Additional Information

**Do I need to do an elective in Family Medicine in order to be admitted to
the McGill Family Medicine Residency program?** If you are a McGill University
Medical Student you will have done 2 months of Family Medicine during your
clerkship. If you do not have Family Medicine as part of your core clerkship
rotations it is strongly recommended that you do an elective in Family
Medicine. In either case it is highly desirable that your electives
demonstrate a wide range of interests applicable to family medicine.

**Whom do I contact if I have questions?** If you have any remaining
questions, you may contact our Postgraduate Administrator at the Department of
Family Medicine: **Ms Alana Walsh-Ferland** by email at
postgrad.fammed@mcgill.ca or by telephone **at 514-399-9126.**  You can also
contact our Postgraduate Program Manager, **Ms Julie Lane** by email at
julie.lane@mcgill.ca or by telephone **at 514-399-9127.**

**Visit our website for access to our program video, resident experience video
and site specific videos!  **

https://www.mcgill.ca/familymed/education/postgrad

https://www.mcgill.ca/familymed/teachingsites/fmu

* * *

# FAQ

**1) Do I have to  be able to speak French/English if I come to McGill?** This
is the question we get asked most often! The language of instruction at the
units in Montreal is English. Being able to communicate in French is essential
in order to assess francophone patients. For residents coming from other
provinces, high-school French is a good basis to work from. Your two years in
Montreal will be a great opportunity to improve your French language skills.
McGill does offer French courses for medical students and residents. Montreal
has a very culturally diverse population, and the more languages you can
speak, the more it will help you in communicating with patients. Francophone
residents will also fit in easily into our Montreal sites if they have enough
English-language skills to follow the lectures and to speak to anglophone
patients. You will find a mixture of English and French spoken regularly at
our Montreal sites, with the goal being to communicate! The sites off the
Island of Montreal have instruction in French. Fluency in written and spoken
French is essential. At these sites, some knowledge of English is helpful.  

**2) Will I feel confident to practice independently after 2 years of
residency?** Our goal is to provide you with an excellent education and the
tools for life long learning. No residency program, no matter how long it is,
can teach you all you need to know. What is important is to know where to get
further information or support when needed as you embark on the path of
lifelong learning associated with practice after residency.  

**3) What are the research opportunities in Family Medicine at McGill
University?** The Department of Family Medicine at McGill University has a
very active research division. There are many research opportunities available
to interested residents. Furthermore, there are multiple resources to assist
the residents in either embarking on a new research project or joining an
already existing one. A critical appraisal/quality assurance project is
required of every resident, and we make every effort to help the resident find
the time to pursue a research project if they so desire.

**4) What is the difference between the different Family Medicine Units?** The
main division between our sites is between urban (bilingual): CIUSSS du
Centre-Ouest-de-l'ile-de-Montreal (CLSC Côte-des-Neiges, CLSC Métro and CLSC
Parc- Extension), Herzl (JGH) and St Mary's Family Medicine Center (SMH  Queen
Elizabeth Health Complex, the GMF-U Mednam and GMF-U Lakeshore); and regional
(francophone): Montérégie (Châteauguay/Vaudreuil), Gatineau and Val d'Or. Our
goal is to train all residents to be competent Family Physicians. The
curriculum that is delivered to all sites is uniform and monitored by the
Postgraduate Education Committee of the Department of Family Medicine. All
units offer exposure to a diverse patient population with a wide range of
illnesses.  

**5) What about the rural stream and rural months?** All residents must
complete a two month rotation in a rural site. This is a wonderful opportunity
to experience the life of a family physician in a smaller community. We have
rural sites for both anglophone and francophone residents. In addition, a few
spots are available in Shawville or Val d’Or (latter site is francophone) for
residents who wish to spend up to 6 months in a rural community.

**6) How do I get assigned to a unit?** If you are applying to the Gatineau,
or Val d'Or matches, you will have the chance to visit those units when you
interview there. These are separate matches within CaRMS and you are welcome
to apply to these sites as well as to McGill’s Montreal units if you are
interested in all of the McGill possibilities. For those applying to McGill’s
Montreal sites, you will have the opportunity to learn about the teaching
units in Montreal on the day of your interview, and staff and residents from
all eight of the Montreal sites will be there to answer your questions. Those
interviewing in Montreal will be asked to rank their **top four site
preferences** and to submit their rank list before the end of February. Once
CaRMS results are released and you are matched to McGill Family Medicine in
Montreal, we will then run a mini-match to assign you to one of your choices
of Montreal sites. We make every effort to give residents their first choice.
**Site decisions are FINAL.  ** We also ask you to mention your interest in
the six-month rural stream on the mini-match form.

**A mini-match will also be made for candidates applying to our Montérégie
program**. Applicants interested in the GMF-U de Jardins Roussillon and the
GMF-U de Vaudreuil will be asked to submit their preference rankings by the
end of February. Candidates matched to the Montérégie program will then be
assigned to one of these two GMF-Us.

**7) Can I do  Out-of-Province Electives?** The Quebec government allows
residents to do two out-of-province electives during their residency. The
electives must be approved by the Collège des Médecins du Québec (CMQ), and
you must be able to demonstrate that one of the two electives is not readily
available in Quebec. You must apply for these electives at least three months
in advance to allow time for the necessary inter-provincial paperwork.

**8) How am I prepared for exams?**  All of our units have regularly scheduled
workshops and exam preparatory sessions.  



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27167?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27167