#  University of Calgary - Neurology - Calgary  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 09, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Vikram Karnik  

Address Clinical Neurosciences  
Foothills Medical Centre  
1403 29 Street NW (Neurosciences C1244)  
Calgary, Alberta, T2N 2T9  

Work  (403) 944-1148

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Program Website
](https://sites.google.com/view/uofcneurology)  
[ University of Calgary Department of Clinical Neurosciences
](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/departments/dcns/home)  
[ The Hotchkiss Brain Institute ](https://hbi.ucalgary.ca)  
[ Instagram ](https://www.instagram.com/yycneurores)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Vikram Karnik

Title: Program Director

Email: vikram.karnik@ahs.ca

Phone: 403-944-1148

  

Name: Christopher Smith

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: neurologycalgary@ahs.ca

Phone: 403-944-1148

  

Name: Dr. Megan Yaraskavitch

Title: Assist Program Director

Email: megan.yaraskavitch@ahs.ca

Phone: 403-944-1148

  

* * *

# Important Information

The Neurology Residency Training Program at the University of Calgary
transitioned to competency-based medical education (CBME) in July 2020 with
all trainees entering the program after this date affiliated with [Competence
by Design (CBD)](https://www.royalcollege.ca/en/standards-and-
accreditation/competence-by-design.html), which aims to enhance patient care
by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving patient
needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education process.

CBD uses time as a framework for competency assessment rather than the basis
for progression. It is not anticipated that the duration of training will
change for the majority of trainees. Residency training is broken down into
[stages](https://canmeds.royalcollege.ca/en/milestones), and each stage will
have a series of entrustable professional activities (EPAs) and milestones
based on the required competencies. These EPAs and milestones improve learning
outcomes and will involve more frequent, formative assessments within the
clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving feedback
on the skills they need.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Thank you for your interest in the University of Calgary’s Adult Neurology
Residency Training Program. We pride ourselves as a program with a diverse set
of training experiences that prepares trainees for a career as an outstanding
clinical neurologist in either community or academic practice.

We seek applicants with diverse backgrounds and interests who can meaningfully
contribute to both our strong community in Calgary, and the field of neurology
for years to come. Please read the sections below for further details
regarding our program and application process. Please ensure that all
application materials are submitted – this is essential for a candidate to be
considered for interview.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Letters of reference should be from faculty or staff physicians. References
from family members, medical students, residents, or fellows are not reviewed.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

A 500 word personal letter should showcase your passion for the field of
neurology, and outline why you feel the University of Calgary is the right fit
for you.

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applicants will be selected for interviews by 23 December 2024

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 31, 2025
  * February 1, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Virtual interviews will be offered on 31
January and 1 February 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Our program utilizes a highly
structured interview process. Each candidate is interviewed by separate
interviewers using a round-robin format over a half day. Candidates are
invited to virtually attend the Department of Clinical Neurosciences Grand
Rounds on the Friday morning.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

All applicants must be eligible for placement on the Educational Register of
the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta. The applicant must apply
for entry to a five-year neurology program via the Canadian Resident Matching
Service (CaRMS).

Preference is given to applicants with:

-A strong academic record;

-A high level of motivation;

-Excellent interpersonal skills.

## Program goals

**GOALS and PHILOSOPHY**

The University of Calgary Adult Neurology Residency Training Program is
dedicated to educate residents in Neurology.  Upon completion of training in
Neurology, a resident is expected to be an expert in the prevention,
diagnosis, and management of patients with diseases of the nervous system; and
to integrate all of the CanMEDS roles (Medical Expert, Communicator,
Collaborator, Leader, Health Advocate, Scholar, and Professional) to provide
optimal, ethical and patient-centered medical care.

The program will facilitate learning through an atmosphere of collegiality and
mutual respect that fosters active communication between residents and
faculty.  

We emphasize the pursuit of excellence in clinical and academic neurology and
instill intellectual curiosity of the discipline for the academic leaders of
tomorrow. We strive to create a level of excitement that will stimulate our
residents to seek further education and pursue careers in academic and
community neurology. Our program aims to serve both the present and future
requirements of our patients, communities, and discipline.

## Selection process goals

The successful applicant will have:

  * a strong academic record
  * a high level of motivation
  * excellent interpersonal skills

We do not expect that the applicant will definitively "know" the career path
within Neurology (academic vs community practice) or the sub-specialty (if
any) that they may choose -- the program is here to provide the necessary
knowledge and tools to help the applicant make those decisions.

Ultimately, we seek a diverse group of residents that are passionate about
neurology and will contribute meaningfully to our profession both as residents
and as future neurologists.

## File review process

Review team composition : The Selection Subcommittee is composed of faculty
members of the Division of Neurology and Neurology residents. Faculty members
have different subspecialty and non-clinical interests, but all have a passion
for medical education.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
The average number of applicants over the last 5 years has been 60.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  
We usually interview 24-30 applicants over a 2-day period.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  A broad range of experience both within medicine as well as personally.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Electives in neurology and related specialties will be considered.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component except the IELTS if required.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We seek to understand the "distance travelled" or life experience of every candidate. What makes this person unique on a personal level?   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Some experience in leadership, but not necessary.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evaluations of all rotations and examinations.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Passion for neurology and interest in our program in Calgary.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Motivated, personable individual.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  A background in research is not required. Publications are not required. We assess candidates for interests across the academic sphere, including research, education, quality improvement, EDI, global health, etc.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Prior education and achievements.   
Other file component(s) |  A numerical value is assigned to each of the file components by 3 different file reviewers; selection is based on the highest sums.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work within a healthcare team.   
Collegiality |  Rapport and relationship building.   
Communication skills |  Organized, interactive, purposeful.   
Health advocacy |  Awareness of gaps in access to health care.   
Interest in the discipline |  Awareness of the scope and breadth of Neurology.   
Interest in the program |  Knowledge of the program and city.   
Leadership skills |  Responsibility and team building.   
Professionalism |  Ethical and respectful behaviour.   
Scholarly activities |  Competency and life-long learning. Ability to synthesize new ideas.   
Other interview component(s) |  A numerical value is assigned at each interview station. Each station evaluates different aspects of the above domains.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Applicants to neurology are diverse in background and interests. Our goal is
to create a program that doesn't ask the question "what do you bring to us?"
but rather "how can we help you achieve your goals?"  Whether a candidate has
an interest in research, quality improvement, medical education, EDI
initiatives, global health, entrepreneurship and innovation, artificial
intelligence, or anything not listed, please do not hesitate to reach out and
ask how our program can help you navigate this interest in a career in
neurology.

Participation in meetings \- Residents are allowed 7 working days each year to
attend neurology meetings. The Department of Clinical Neurosciences
contributes up to $2,000 toward resident travel to meetings each year. In
addition, the University of Calgary Cumming School of Medicine (through the
Associate Dean for Postgraduate Medical Education) provides financial
assistance to residents for travel costs to a meeting when the resident is the
first author of a presentation. Other funds also may be available for resident
travel assistance.

Research Leave \- Neurology residents have the option to enter a MSc or PhD
program funded by the Hotchkiss Brain Institute (HBI) Resident Scientist
Program or the Clinician Investigator Residency Program (a Royal College-
accredited residency program). The leave is normally taken at the end of the
PGY3 or PGY4 year. Salary is pegged at the PGY level of the resident. Details
can be found at <https://live-cumming.ucalgary.ca/cip>

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

### Educational Program

The residency program covers a period of five years and has been designed to
meet the objectives of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
for Neurology Residency Programs. As of July 1, 2020, all Neurology residency
programs across Canada will launch Competence by Design (CBD).  

CLINICAL PROGRAM (also see description below)

_The University of Calgary Program consists of:_

  * Transition to Neurology:  2 blocks

  * Foundations of Neurology:  24 blocks

  * Core of Neurology:  26 - 38 blocks

  * Transition to Practice:  6 - 12 blocks

ACADEMIC PROGRAM (See below)

### TRANSITION TO NEUROLOGY

The first two-blocks are spent on ward- and clinic-based neurology to allow
the resident to bond to the Neurology Program and their new career (transition
to discipline and residency).  Another three blocks of neurology are done
later in the year.  There is exposure to acute stroke through a Night Float
rotation where the resident is paired with a Stroke Fellow; there is also time
spent on the Stroke Unit.  Mandatory clinic time is spent in the General
Neurology, Urgent Neurology, and Lumbar Puncture Clinics; some specialty
clinics may also be available.  The learning objectives for these two blocks
are that the resident learns to perform a complete neurological history and
physical examination, interprets the findings appropriately and formulates the
basic aspects of a neurological differential diagnosis including anatomical,
syndromic and pathophysiological diagnoses.

### FOUNDATIONS OF NEUROLOGY

In Foundations, training experiences include neurology and non-neurology
rotations, including internal medicine, psychiatry, neurosurgery,
neuroradiology,  and emergency medicine. Internal medicine rotations include
general medicine ward service and ICU/CCU and selective rotations, such as
rheumatology, infectious diseases, palliative care medicine, etc. Internal
medicine rotations are tailored to provide the resident with a strong
background in medicine useful in subsequent neurology training.

A block of community neurology will be included in this stage. In addition to
fulfilling the neurology objectives noted above, Foundations is meant to
fulfill the objectives of basic clinical training as outlined by the Royal
College: to give the resident a degree of independent responsibility for
clinical decisions; an opportunity for further development of the skills
required in making effective relationships with patients; the consolidation of
competence in primary clinical and technical skills across a broad range of
medical practice; and an understanding of the nature of the relationship
between a referring physician and a consulting specialist.

### CORE OF NEUROLOGY

This stage provides core training in clinical neurology. Neurology inpatient
experience is obtained at the Foothills Medical Centre and the South Health
Campus. During the inpatient general neurology rotations, the resident is
responsible for the primary care of inpatients on the neurology ward, the
assessment of patients in the emergency department and inpatient neurological
consultations. During the stroke rotations in Core and Transition to Practice,
the resident manages acute stroke and participates in the stroke fellow rota.
Outpatient experience is emphasized in this program and clinical rotations
which are completely clinic-based are scheduled. Clinics are available in
General Neurology and several subspecialty areas, which are listed below. For
most residents, rotations in neuropathology, neuromuscular/EMG, epilepsy/EEG
comprise the balance of the Core rotations.

Most residents will undertake a three- to six-block period of clinical or
basic neuroscience research (see below). Residents embark on their
longitudinal neurology clinic in the two years prior to Transition to Practice
(see below).  In the latter part of Core, the resident is expected to assume
greater independence in the management of patients and more responsibility for
teaching and supervising junior residents and clinical clerks. The resident
also has the opportunity to participate in the teaching of second year medical
students during the neurosciences portion of the medical school curriculum.

### TRANSITION TO NEUROLOGY PRACTICE

The resident is now a senior neurology resident/junior consultant in inpatient
and outpatient settings. He/she continues the senior resident's longitudinal
clinics; patients are evaluated and followed by the senior resident at arm's
length from the attending neurologist preceptor.

The resident is expected to assume greater independence in the management of
patients and more responsibility for teaching and supervising junior residents
and clinical clerks. The resident also has the opportunity to participate in
the teaching of second year medical students during the neurosciences portion
of the medical school curriculum.

During this stage, the resident may select elective rotations from a number of
different areas including EEG, neuro-ophthalmology, pain, neuro-rehabilitation
or community neurology, or choose to spend further time in electromyography,
neuromuscular disease, neuroradiology, neurosurgery or psychiatry. Special
requests for other options will be considered on an individual basis.

### Academic Program and Evaluations

_Educational sessions for residents are held every weekday throughout the
academic year at the 2 primary teaching hospitals:_

Monday noon: Neuroradiology Rounds (SHC) every 2 weeks

Tuesday a.m.: "Les Leçons du Mardi" - Neurology Case Rounds video-conferenced
between FMC & SHC

Tuesday p.m.:  Academic half-day:  (13:00 - 17:00): Neurology
subspecialty/CanMEDS rounds and a two-hour seminar.  The seminars cover a
curriculum of neurology topics that repeats every 2.5 years. All sessions are
led by neurology preceptors.  Regular Communications Skills sessions (with
actors) are also scheduled.

Wednesday: a.m:  Neuroradiology teaching rounds (FMC); video-conferenced to
SHC

Friday Departmental Grand Rounds (08:00 - 10:15): During the first hour,
neurology (adult or pediatric), neurosurgery and physical medicine and
rehabilitation residents present a patient followed by a short didactic and
interactive session. In the second hour, a topical didactic presentation is
given, often by an invited guest speaker, or there is a clinical-pathological
conference.  These rounds are video-conferenced between sites.

Divisional Quality Improvement Rounds are held quarterly.

Almost every sub-specialty clinic holds weekly rounds that residents may
attend.

Annual residency program events include a sponsored residents' retreat, a
sponsored neurology resident week-end basic science symposium, and the
departmental Resident Research Day.

Residents in all years have certain duties and responsibilities in common.
These include:

  * Participating in all departmental educational activities as a first priority.

  * Participating in the education of more junior residents (from all disciplines) and clinical clerks who are rotating through the Neurology Service.

  * Periodically making case presentations and short focused presentations at Rounds.

**EVALUATIONS**

With the launch of CBD, evaluations and feedback will occur frequently
throughout the rotations. The Neurology Residency Program Competence Committee
receives copies of the evaluations and closely follows the progress of the
resident.  Academic coaches/advisors will also monitor and advise residents.
Preceptors are encouraged to give frequent informal feedback and the resident
is encouraged to ask for informal feedback.

In addition to rotation evaluations, there are regular formal examinations.
Twice a year, residents are given a written progress exam. Foundation
residents are given two practice multi-station OSCE exams by the senior
neurology residents to acquaint them with the Royal College examination
format. In subsequent years. a multi-station OSCE exam is held twice yearly,
using similar formats to those used by the Royal College. Starting with PGY-1,
the resident also takes the yearly Residency In-training Examination (RITE)
given by the American Academy of Neurology.

The program director meets formally with each resident twice a year to discuss
the resident's experience on recent rotations, evaluations, upcoming
rotations, career plans and resident well-being.  Academic advisors meet at
least four times per year, and more frequently as necessary.

### Subspecialty Clinics

Participation in the Subspecialty Clinics provides a unique opportunity for
neurology residents to gain in-depth experience dealing with patients with
particular groups of diseases. Subspecialty Clinics are available in each of
the following areas:

General Neurology |  Urgent Neurology |  Movement Disorders  
---|---|---  
Cognitive Disorders |  Pain/Palliative Care |  Neuromuscular Diseases  
Epilepsy (Adult) |  Neuro-oncology (Adult) |  Neuro-ophthalmology  
Epilepsy (Pediatric) |  Multiple Sclerosis |  Neuro-inflammatory Disorders  
Headache |  Neuro-psychiatry |  Neuro-vestibular Disorders  
 Functional Neurologic Disorders Clinic |    |     
  
### Research

Resident research is a mandatory part of the University of Calgary Neurology
Training Program. The goal is to promote the development of knowledge, skills,
and interest in the field of clinical or basic neuroscience research. The
completion of a well-designed research project, whether clinical, basic, or
medical educational, also will facilitate future career development. Every
effort will be made to tailor the type and scope of the research project to
the resident's interests and needs. Most residents will spend three to six
months in research during the Core year.  The resident research sub-committee
of the Residency Program Committee meets with the resident to help develop the
research project.

In addition, the U of C Hotchkiss Brain Institute (HBI) offers salary support
for residents who wish to carry out an MSc or PhD program with a clinical or
basic science member of the HBI. The salary is pegged at the PGY level of the
resident. Details can be found at
<https://hbi.ucalgary.ca/education/prospective-trainees/prospective-trainees>

The U of C also has a Clinician Investigator Program <https://live-
cumming.ucalgary.ca/cip> which is a Royal College certified program that
provides the opportunity to pursue an MSc or PhD as part of the residency.

### Research Interests

All the subspecialty clinics do clinical research ranging from epidemiological
assessments, clinical trials, to translational research. Most departmental
members are part of the Hotchkiss Brain Institute, a collective of researchers
who investigate basic, population health, and clinical sciences. Opportunities
to be involved in research abound for residents throughout their training
tract.

Further information about specific areas of research activity in the
neurosciences may be found on the HBI website:
<https://hbi.ucalgary.ca/research>

* * *

# Training Sites

### Participating Departments, Institutions and Facilities

### DEPARTMENT OF CLINICAL NEUROSCIENCES

The Department of Clinical Neurosciences comprises the Divisions of Neurology,
Neurosurgery, and Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and includes 62 adult
neurologists, and other full and part-time faculty members. The alliance of
the three disciplines at the University of Calgary allows fruitful
collaboration in several departmental activities, including weekly rounds,
resident basic science seminars, research day, outpatient services, etc. (for
further information see the departmental Annual Report
<https://www.ucalgary.ca/dcns/>). Other departments, including Pediatric
Neurology, Neuro-Pathology, and Neuro-Radiology also participate actively in
the neurology training program.

### FOOTHILLS MEDICAL CENTRE

Foothills Medical Centre is a large, tertiary care medical facility (1,000
acute care beds) that serves as the major referral centre in Southern Alberta
for patients requiring inpatient neurology care. There are two inpatient
services: general neurology (which encompasses neurology in-patients, in-
patient consultations, and Emergency Department consultations) and stroke
(stroke in-patients, in-patient stroke consultations, and acute and sub-acute
stroke).  There are also several general neurology and sub-specialty
outpatient clinics (see above). There are three combined neurology and
neurosurgery inpatient wards comprising 60 beds plus an 18-bed stroke unit and
a ward devoted to inpatient neuro-rehabilitation. There is a
neurology/neurosurgery critical care unit, an EMG/EEG Lab and a resident
office with computers and internet access on the same floor as the inpatient
neurology wards. A neurology/neurosurgery outpatient wing is located above the
neurology wards. The Foothills Medical Centre and Seaman Family MR Research
Centre houses an intraoperative MRI scanner (the iMRI) and a 3-Tesla research
and clinical scanner as well as two 1.5 Tesla clinical scanners. The
University of Calgary Cumming School of Medicine is located adjacent to the
Foothills Medical Centre. Five contiguous buildings (McCaig Tower, Health
Science and Heritage Medical Buildings, Health Research Innovation Center and
Translational Research Wing) house additional acute care beds, as well as both
basic and clinical research facilities.  The new Arthur J.E. Child
Comprehensive Cancer Centre is currently under construction with anticipated
opening in fall 2024.

### PETER LOUGHEED CENTRE / ROCKYVIEW GENERAL HOSPITAL

The Peter Lougheed Centre in the northeast and Rockyview General Hospital in
the southwest are 600+ bed fully equipped hospitals with active medical,
surgical and intensive care units. Both sites support busy neurology
consultation services, neurology clinics, EEG and EMG laboratories and CT and
MR scanners. Residents may rotate through these sites for General Neurology
Clinics, Urgent Neurology Clinics, EEG, and EMG rotations, as well as their
Internal Medicine rotations.

### ALBERTA CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL

Alberta Children's Hospital is a tertiary care pediatric medical facility and
a major pediatric trauma center. There are 16 neurologists that run active in-
patient and outpatient neurology services. In addition to General Neurology
clinics, subspecialty clinics include Brain Injury, Epilepsy, Headache,
Neurodevelopment, Neuromotor/Neuromuscular, Sleep, and Stroke. The division
also has full EEG, EMG, and imaging capability.  Major research interests
include brain recovery, epilepsy, stroke, and Tourette's syndrome.

### SOUTH HEALTH CAMPUS

A fourth adult acute care hospital, the South Health Campus, opened in
September 2012 with complete operational status in September 2013.  There are
269 acute care beds.  There is an active general neurology inpatient and
consultation service including a seizure monitoring unit.  The Headache Clinic
and Neuromuscular Clinic are based at SHC.  Other clinics include General
Neurology, Urgent Neurology, Neuro-Immunology, and MS.

### ELECTRONIC RESOURCES

The Resident Office, located at FMC adjacent to the neurology ward, is
equipped with computers, a printer. and a scanner.  Electronic Resources
include Alberta Health Services Knowledge Resource Service which provides
access to Dynamed, CPS, and PubMed plus a large selection of Electronic
Journals available via the web through the University of Calgary Health
Sciences Library.

* * *

# Additional Information

### Quick Facts

  * Electives outside of the University of Calgary are permitted based on the needs of the resident and quality of the proposed elective. Generally, the duration of extramural electives will not exceed three blocks.

  * The ratio of residents to faculty is ~1 to 3.5

  * Clinical neurology rotations are divided between Foothills and South Health Campus inpatient service (~40%), stroke service (~30%), and Neurology Clinics (~30%). The average patient load per resident on the Foothills or South Health Campus service is about seven.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27349?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27349