#  Toronto Metropolitan University - Pediatrics - Peel & Surrounding
Communities

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on October 25, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Allison Bahm  

Address Postgraduate Medical Education - Pediatrics  
350 Victoria Street  
Toronto, Ontario, M5B 2K3  

Websites of Interest [ VIDEO [1.5 min]: TMU SoM Creating Healthy Change for
Communities Across Canada ](https://youtu.be/OzVtdOMD4s8?si=yDM9vM_g5eqTRn67)  
[ TMU Postgraduate Medical Education ](http://www.torontomu.ca/school-of-
medicine/programs)  
[ TMU School of Medicine Website ](http://www.torontomu.ca/school-of-medicine)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Sam Moshiri

Title: Program Administrator

Email: pgme.peds@torontomu.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Accreditation Status: Accredited  
** The Toronto Metropolitan University School of Medicine's Pediatrics
Residency Program received accreditation from the Royal College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Canada in October of 2024.=

**Virtual Information Sessions  
** The TMU Pediatrics Program invites you to attend one of our upcoming
**Virtual Information Sessions** to learn more about the Program and have any
questions that you may have answered by the Program Director, Dr. Allison
Bahm!

The info sessions will be approximately 45-60 minutes and will be held on the
following dates:

  * **Thursday, November 7****,****2024, at 8:00pm ET** – [**Click here to register**](https://torontomu.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJIlfuiqqjIsHdHh7RrE93GAoFCz6wnwef_d)
  * **Friday, January 17, 2025, at 9:00am ET** – [**Click here to register**](https://torontomu.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJclcumprjkvHdcRCzaG3lLsSy8sdN4UesqV)
  * **Friday, January 17, 2025, at 4:00pm ET** – [**Click here to register**](https://torontomu.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJ0kduqppjMuGNf_k5UmXWhOVPJMQdwvyTkk)

Upon registering, you will receive a confirmation email with the Zoom link.**  
**  
We look forward to seeing you there!

**Eligibility Criteria  
** In addition to meeting the CaRMS R-1 Match [Basic Eligibility
Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/#1686684285912-c058262f-ef92), all applicants must meet the [Ontario
Provincial Eligibility Criteria ](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-
residency-match/eligibility-criteria/ontario/#1594838411955-6c1aae10-d2bb)in
order to be considered. Applicants are responsible for reviewing this criteria
in full before applying.

International Medical Graduates (IMG) must be graduates of an acceptable
medical school on the [World Directory of Medical Schools
](https://www.wdoms.org/)list.  

All International Medical Graduates (IMG) need to have their documents
verified through [physiciansapply.ca](https://physiciansapply.ca/).

Documents that are not in English must be translated into English. Students
applying in the last year of medical school will need to submit their most
recent marks/transcripts and will need to provide proof of their MD to CPSO
prior to the start of residency training.

**Pre-residency Orientation Programs  
** All International Medical Graduates (IMG) accepted to all residency
programs will be required to complete either the Pre-Residency Program (PRP)
or the Pre-Residency Program for Family Medicine (PRPFM) prior to entering
into a residency program. Matched International Medical Graduates (IMG) will
be expected to attend these programs in Toronto, several weeks in advance of
the start of their residency program. In some cases, this may result in a
delay of the start date of the residency. Additional information on the PRP
and PRP FM programs can be found at the following link: [Touchstone
Institute](http://www.touchstoneinstitute.ca/).

**Assessment Verification Period**  
All International Medical Graduates (IMG) accepted to residency training
programs will be required to undergo an Assessment Verification Period (AVP).
This assessment period is normally 12 weeks in length and is required by the
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario to obtain an educational license
to enter a residency program. [CPSO – International Medical Graduates
(IMGs)](https://www.cpso.on.ca/Physicians/Registration/International-Medical-
Graduates).

International Medical Graduates (IMG)  that have failed an AVP and are
reapplying through CaRMS are ineligible to apply for training in the same
specialty in Ontario but may apply to a different specialty in the first
and/or second iteration. International Medical Graduates (IMG) who have
withdrawn from a program prior to completion of an AVP must declare so upon
application.

Please note that while every effort is made to accommodate a July 1st start
date, there may be some applicants matched in the 2nd iteration who cannot be
accommodated for a July 1st start. This information will be communicated to
the matched applicants directly from the matched program.

* * *

# Return of Service

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

**NOTE: The following MUST be accompanied by a Canadian Government Issued
Photo ID:**

  * Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth
  * Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada

**_All applicants applying to the R-1 Main Residency Match must be Canadian
citizens or permanent residents at the time of application_** _._  
  
All applicants must have their citizenship pre-verified or provide a document
as proof of Canadian Citizenship Status.  
  
Applications submitted without one of the acceptable forms of verification
will be considered incomplete and will not be considered further in the
selection process. No other forms of verification are accepted.

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Alternative proof of language proficiency  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Applicants must be able to communicate in the language of instruction and
patient care of the matching school.

_Proof of English language proficiency must be provided through  **ONE  **of
the following options:  
  
_

**1\. Submit an  acceptable language assessment document to verify your
language proficiency:**

  * **Accepted:**  IELTS Academic  
  

    * **Document validity (not expired) by:**  Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
    * **Minimum score:  **7 in each component   
  

  * **Accepted:**  TOEFL-iBT, TOEFL-iBT Home Edition  
  

    * **Document validity (not expired) by** : Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
    * **Minimum score:**  93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section  
  

  * **Accepted:**  Occupational English Test (OET)-Medicine accepted  
  

    * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to July 1, 2025
    * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of B in each component  
  

  * **Accepted:**  Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
  

    * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to July 1,2025
    * **Minimum score:  **Minimum score of 9 in each component

**2.  World Directory of Medical School (FAIMER) print out **

  * Candidates can submit a print out from the [World Directory of Medical Schools](http://www.wdoms.org/) which clearly states that the language of instruction is English.

**3\. Letter of language proficiency**

  * If the World Directory of Medical Schools directory does not indicate clearly that the language of instruction is solely English, a letter of language proficiency is a letter from your Dean attesting that your medical school program of instruction was completed solely in English.

Examinations

Required

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

  * IMG applicants are required to have [written](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/18728262336781)and passed the [National Assessment Collaboration (NAC) Examination](https://mcc.ca/examinations/nac-overview/). A passing score from exam sessions after March 2013 is required.
  * **_Substitution: MCCQE Part II passing score can be accepted in lieu of the NAC passing score._**

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

  * IMG applicants are required to have [written](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/18728262336781)and passed the [Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Exam Part I](https://mcc.ca/examinations/mccqe-part-i/)

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

A total of three (3) letters of reference are required.  

  * At least one (1) letter must be from a physician that has observed you in a clinical setting (ideally within the past 2 years) who can speak to your clinical skills and medical knowledge.  
  

  * Ideally one (1) letter would be from a pediatrician, but this is not mandatory. We prefer letters from physicians/staff supervisors rather than residents.   
  

  * The letters should attest to qualities that would make you a good Pediatric resident and ultimately Pediatrician.



Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

  1. How have your lived experiences contributed to your personal growth and desire to pursue a career in Pediatrics?  
  

  2. How have your personal, professional, or extracurricular experiences with diversity, inequity, and/or marginalization influenced your efforts to create a more inclusive environment in your community or learning environment?  
  

  3. What qualities do you possess that make you a good fit for a career in Pediatrics? Provide examples of times you have demonstrated these qualities.  
  

  4. What specifically interests you about our program and why do you feel that it will best support you in reaching your personal and professional goals?

_If you've experienced any academic failures or gaps in training throughout
your medical education journey that you would like to explain, this should be
addressed in your personal statement and titled as “Addendum”. This
information will not be included in the  above word count, but should not
exceed 250 words._

Medical School Transcript

  * Transcripts that are not in English must be accompanied by a translation.  
  

  * International Medical Graduates (IMG) must be graduates of an acceptable medical school on the [World Directory of Medical Schools ](https://www.wdoms.org/)   
  

  * All International Medical Graduates (IMG) need to have their documents verified through [physicians.ca](http://www.physicians.ca)  

_Students applying in the last year of medical school will need to submit
their most recent marks/transcripts and will need to provide proof of their MD
to CPSO prior to the start of residency training.  _

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Regional Connection Attestation

## **Download Form:  [TMU Regional Connection
Attestation](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/TMU-regional-connection-
attestation-2025.pdf)**

We understand that a number of applicants to our residency programs will have
a connection to the Peel region and surrounding communities, and that many
applicants will also have an interest in serving culturally diverse and
medically underserved communities.  
  
Building upon our strong foundation of social accountability, we have
implemented a **Regional Connection Attestation** to help identify candidates
who may have a connection to the region.  
  
All applicants are asked to complete this attestation. The information
provided in the attestation will be considered in our selection process and
candidates will be awarded a Regional Connection Score.

Optional - will be reviewed

Self-identification questionnaire

Equity, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) are fundamental values at TMU and the
School of Medicine. As the first medical school in Canada founded and
intentionally built upon the foundations of social accountability, EDI,
decolonization and Reconciliation. These principles have been intentionally
infused throughout all facets of the TMU School of Medicine, including
admissions.  
  
We recognize that many groups face barriers not only in applying and being
admitted to medical school, but also in matching into residency programs. With
this in mind, and in keeping with TMU’s mission, vision and values,**  our
PGME Office and residency programs are asking applicants to optionally
complete the CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire and to assign the
document with their application to our program.**  
  
**This information will be used to support our goal of selecting a diverse
group of candidates to interview and subsequently rank**. Your information
will also be used to produce aggregate data. Following the CaRMS Match,
anonymized aggregate data from the CSIQ will be used to evaluate the
effectiveness of our selection process in removing barriers and promoting
inclusion, and to help us set EDI goals for future matches.

All members of the TMU PGME Office, program faculty and staff, file reviewers,
interviewers, and program selection committees undergo mandatory unconscious
bias and anti-racism training specifically geared to admissions and selection
and must also sign a Confidentiality and Conflict of Interest Agreement.
Additionally, to help ensure an equitable and accessible admissions and
selection process, we are committed to providing reasonable accommodations for
candidates who may require them in the interview process.

**Information on how this information will be accessed and protected by TMU**
:  
  
Your information will remain confidential, but not anonymous. Only a few
authorized individuals in PGME, including the Program Director and Program
Administrator, will have access to individual responses from individual
candidates. All personal information that is collected will be used, stored,
and destroyed in accordance with [TMU's Notice of
Collection](https://www.torontomu.ca/registrar/privacy/).  
  
Your self-identification information will be stored and maintained by the
individuals mentioned from the Postgraduate Medical Education Office and
destroyed in alignment with [TMU's records retention
schedule](https://www.torontomu.ca/gcbs/what-we-do/records/records-retention/)
and the [Ontario Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act
(FIPPA)](https://www.torontomu.ca/gcbs/what-we-do/access-privacy/). No
information that identifies an individual and their diversity self-
identification data will be released or shared, except with the aforementioned
who are required to have confidential access to the information to fulfill
their responsibilities, or with the consent of the person from whom the
information is collected.  
  
If you have any questions about the collection and use of this information,
please contact [pgme@torontomu.ca](mailto:pgme@torontomu.ca.).

Medical Student Performance Record

Medical Student Performance Record (optional) can be provided in the form of a
Dean’s Letter from the Dean of the international medical school that was
attended.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 30, 2025
  * February 3, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be conducted virtually and
will last approximately 30-45 minutes. Candidates will rotate between two
interview stations.  
  
There will also be a more informal opportunity to meet with the program
director prior to the interview to learn more about the program and ask any
questions. Overall, the interview experience provides opportunities for
candidates to assess their personal and professional fit with our program.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process:  
Aligned with[ Best Practices in Applications &
Selection](https://www.carms.ca/news/bpas-and-carms/), TMU's PGME Office is
committed to providing an application and selection process that promotes
diversity of the resident body, is free of inappropriate bias, and respects
the obligation to provide for reasonable accommodations, where appropriate.  
  
Details related to accommodations in the interview process will be sent to
applicants who are invited for an interview.  
  
Applicants who are requesting an accommodation in the interview process will
be required to provide a letter from a regulated health practitioner that:  
  

  * supports the need for accommodation;
  * specifies the accommodation required;
  * provides the date of diagnosis; and
  * **outlines the underlying functional impairment(s) and/or restriction(s) related to the diagnosis.**

* * *

# Selection Criteria

  * TMU's School of Medicine is committed to improving the health and well-being of individuals, families, and communities, focusing on the primary care needs of diverse and underserved populations in Peel and surrounding communities. Our mission, in alignment with the Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) office, is to provide community-engaged education, scholarship, and service. We aim to educate residents within safe and supportive environments, fostering the development of compassionate, respectful, and forward-thinking clinicians who will provide outstanding holistic care and lead in health system transformation.  
  

  * We are dedicated to upholding our commitments to Equity, Diversity, Inclusion, Accessibility, Anti-Racism & Reconciliation, Decolonization, and Indigenous Resurgence (EDIAA-RDIR).  
  

  * Our program goals include selecting residents who demonstrate clinical excellence, community engagement, leadership potential, and a commitment to lifelong learning and health equity. We seek residents who are capable of becoming exceptional physicians in their specialties and who share our dedication to improving healthcare access and outcomes in the communities we serve.  
  

  * To align with our selection process goals, we emphasize the importance of recruiting a diverse population of residents reflecting the demographics of Peel and surrounding communities and are committed to advancing the principles of equity, diversity and inclusion, decolonization and Reconciliation. Our process incorporates comprehensive evaluations, including academic performance, clinical evaluations, leadership experiences, and community involvement, ensuring that our residents not only meet our high standards of clinical competence but also embody the values and mission of the TMU School of Medicine.  

## Program goals

  * The TMU Pediatrics Program's mission is to graduate outstanding consultant pediatricians who exemplify the CanMEDS roles. Through a community-based approach, our goal is for graduates to confidently practice pediatrics in any setting as consultant general pediatricians while also being well-prepared to enter subspecialty pediatric training if they choose.  
  

  * We strive to equip our residents with the necessary knowledge and skills to deliver high-quality, evidence-based care with empathy and cultural competency. We aim to empower our learners to become leaders in the field with experience in research, education, advocacy and wellness.   
  

  * Our program aims to cultivate growth-oriented behaviours, fostering Pediatricians with a lifelong commitment to ongoing growth and development.  Residents will be exposed to a wide range of clinical learning environments, ensuring they gain a strong appreciation for the opportunities in Pediatrics and can access mentorship from Pediatricians with diverse career paths.   

## Selection process goals

The TMU School of Medicine Postgraduate Medical Education Unit and Program are
committed to selecting a diverse population of residents who will be
exceptional physicians in their specialty, and who are committed to Equity,
Diversity, Inclusion, Accessibility, Anti-Racism & Reconciliation,
Decolonization, and Indigenous Resurgence (EDIAA-RDIR). In addition, the
program is committed to selecting residents with:  

  * An interest in improving Pediatric healthcare access and outcomes in Peel and surrounding communities.  
  
  * A connection to Peel and surrounding communities and/or an interest in practicing in culturally diverse communities.  
  

  * An interest in building the TMU School of Medicine and being an integral part of the success of a brand-new residency program.  
  

  * Lived experiences that have contributed to their personal growth and desire to become a Pediatrician.  
  

  * A broad range of personal, professional, and educational experiences that reflect a passion and commitment to community engagement, advocacy, and leadership, especially in the context of marginalized communities.

Our program's selection process goals are to identify applicants who:  

  1. Have demonstrated an interest and aptitude for the practice of pediatric medicine and child health  
  

  2. Possess personal qualities well-suited to a pediatrician, such as respect and compassion for others, professionalism, excellent communication and collaboration abilities, and leadership skills  
  

  3. Demonstrate growth-oriented learning attitudes and behaviours  
  

  4. Recognize the benefit of training in community and academic clinical learning environments  
  

  5. Value a hands-on approach to learning given the absence of clinical fellows at most of our training sites

Demonstration of pursuit of growth and development in the areas of medical
education, advocacy, research and/or other forms of scholarly activity is
considered an asset.

## File review process

Review team composition : Each application will be reviewed by two independent
reviewers using a standardized rubric. The file review team will consist of
the Program Director and other clinical faculty members within the specialty.  
  
All file reviewers will complete a Confidentiality and Conflict of Interest
Agreement and will undergo unconscious bias and anti-racism training.  
  
If a file reviewer recognizes a conflict of interest, they will flag this with
the program administrator and the file will be reassigned.  

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
As the TMU School of Medicine is a newly established medical school that will
welcome its first cohort of residents in July 2025, we do not have historical
application data.  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  
As the TMU School of Medicine is a newly established medical school that will
welcome its first cohort of residents in July 2025, we do not have historical
application data to provide the percentage of the applicant pool that is
offered an interview. We aim to offer interviews to the percentage of
applicants outlined above; however, this is contingent upon the volume of
applications that are received.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  A custom CV is not required. The relevant information in your CaRMS Application outlining your personal, professional, educational and extracurricular experiences will be evaluated.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  A broad range of electives, including the discipline.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Passing score of MCCQE1 and NAC examination.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Will be evaluated, including interests both relevant and irrelevant to medicine.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  We value leadership qualities and will evaluate community engagement, advocacy and leadership roles and experiences, especially in the context of marginalized communities.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Will be evaluated to assess for competency, professionalism, or any areas of concern.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Will be evaluated to understand lived experiences, experiences with diversity, inequity, and/or marginalization, and to gauge interest in, and suitability for, the program.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  A total of 3 reference documents are required and will be evaluated to assess competency, suitability, professionalism, and any areas of concern.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Assessed within extra-curricular experience.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Will be reviewed. If your transcript shows any academic failures or gaps in training, this should be addressed in your personal statement and titled as “Addendum”.   
Other file component(s) |  Communication Skills  
Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the English language.
Written communication skills will be assessed in any written submissions (e.g.
personal letter), and any comments/feedback in reference documents pertaining
to the candidate’s ability to communicate effectively will also be taken into
consideration.  
  
Regional Connection Attestation  
Applicants are asked to complete the TMU Regional Connection Attestation to
detail any connections that they may have to Peel and surrounding communities.
The information provided in the attestation will be considered in our
selection process.  
  
CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (optional)  
Applicants are asked to complete the CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire.
This information will be used to support our goal of selecting a diverse group
of candidates. More information provided in the document section.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Values teamwork and demonstrates excellent interpersonal and collaborative skills, especially within interdisciplinary team settings.   
Collegiality |  Demonstrated ability to have a positive rapport with others (behavioral based question and correspondence with staff on the interview team).   
Communication skills |  Demonstrates excellent verbal communication skills in the interview and can clearly and concisely articulate one’s thoughts.   
Health advocacy |  Ability to reflect on the importance of patient health advocacy and draw from experiences.   
Interest in the discipline |  Knowledge about the discipline and interest in child health and working with children and their families.   
Interest in the program |  An interest in training in diverse clinical learning environments in Peel and Surrounding Communities, and knowledge about the TMU SOM mission, vision, and values.   
Leadership skills |  Ability to reflect on leadership skills and draw from relevant experiences in leadership roles.   
Professionalism |  Conducts oneself in a professional manner in all interactions with those involved in the admissions/selection process.   
Scholarly activities |  This component will not be evaluated in the interview.   
Other interview component(s) |  Reflective skills. Experiences with diversity, inequity, and/or marginalization.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Program will follow the Competence By Design model and is 4 years in
length.

  * Our program is novel in that it is heavily based in the community, which exposes residents to the breadth and diversity of our specialty. We are proud to be aligned with and accountable to TMU’s mission and vision of training providers who deliver culturally competent and patient-centred care and who have an interest in working in medically underserved communities.   
  

  * Our large community-based setting will provide unique opportunities for residents to access a high volume of pediatric presentations as one of a small number of trainees/fellows. This also allows for close working relationships with supervisors, facilitating mentorship and abundant opportunities for supervised hands-on training in procedural skills and neonatal deliveries and resuscitations.   
  

  * In response to the societal need for more general pediatricians, we are proud to train residents in learning environments that will foster confidence for transition to practice and increase awareness of the diversity of our specialty.  
  

  * Our curriculum ensures longitudinal exposure to the breadth of the specialty. For example, night float shifts in our primary sites include ER consultation, OB consultation, NICU and Pediatric inpatients, which reflects the reality for most hospitalist general pediatricians. Additionally, learners will have the opportunity to be exposed to sub-specialty clinics throughout their training to facilitate attainment of advancing learning objectives.   
  

  * We have intentionally incorporated ample opportunities for elective blocks or ‘Enrichment’ rotations designed to individualize residency training and allow learners to identify their areas for growth and development, both clinically and in the other CanMED roles.   
  

  * In line with the rest of Canada, Pediatrics transitioned to Competency-Based Medical Education (CBME) in 2021, as per the Royal College of Canada’s mandate. Our curriculum, learning opportunities, and faculty development have been designed to ensure that learners will be able to meet the expectations of CBME and be well prepared for a career as a Pediatrician.   
  

  * As a smaller program, TMU offers residents more individualized support and mentorship from supervising pediatricians and more hands-on learning opportunities. A small community of residents also fosters close relationships and a sense of belonging.  
  

  * As outlined in our program goals and selection goals, our program is committed to supporting trainees to realize their individual potentials. We aim to cultivate a learning culture that is learner-focused and assists the learner in progressive development of competencies to be the best version of the Pediatrician they can be in terms of all the CanMED roles.   
  

  * Our program fosters a growth mindset. We are committed to innovation and applying a continuous quality improvement lens to our residency program. Residents will have an important voice in program decisions, priorities and innovations. Given that the program is new, residents will have the opportunity to be a part of building the vision and ensuring the program stays accountable to learners, faculty, program goals and society. 

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

A sample rotation schedule is provided below. Each resident will receive a
personalized rotation schedule.

**Sample Rotation Schedule**

**Transition to Discipline (TTD)** |    
---|---  
Orientation |  1 week  
Clinical Teaching Unit (CTU) |  5 weeks  
Night float |  2 weeks  
Outpatient General Pediatrics Clinic |  4 weeks  
**Foundations** |    
CTU |  10 weeks  
Pediatric Emergency Department (ED) |  4 weeks  
Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) (Level 2) |  4 weeks  
Community comprehensive (CTU/NICU I/II) |  4 weeks  
Longitudinal subspecialty ambulatory rotation  |  4 weeks  
Night float |  6 weeks  
Endocrinology |  2 weeks  
Cardiology |  2 weeks  
Elective |  4 weeks  
**Core** |    
CTU (Including at least 4 weeks as team lead) |  16 weeks  
Night float |  14 weeks  
Elective  |  16 weeks  
Child Psychiatry |  4 weeks  
Scholarly Project* |  2 week block plus longitudinal days (4 days/year)  
Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) |  4 weeks  
PICU on-call night float |  2 weeks  
Longitudinal subspecialty ambulatory rotation |  12 weeks  
Developmental Pediatrics |  6 weeks  
NICU (Level 2) |  12 weeks  
NICU (Level 3) |  4 weeks  
Enrichment |  6 weeks  
Outpatient General Pediatrics Clinic |  4 weeks  
Pediatric ED |  4 weeks  
Child maltreatment |  4 weeks  
Community comprehensive (CTU/NICU I/II) |  4 weeks  
Rural/Remote |  4 weeks  
Day consults |  2 weeks  
Continuity clinic |  longitudinal  
**Transition to Practice** |    
CTU (Junior Consultant) |  4 weeks  
Complex Care |  4 weeks  
Night float |  6 weeks  
NICU (Level 2) |  4 weeks  
Continuity clinic |  longitudinal  
Enrichment |  4 weeks  
Mixed Clinics |  6 weeks  
Elective |  4 weeks  
Child Psychiatry |  4 weeks  
  
**Mixed Clinics:** Ambulatory focused rotation in which the learner designs
the clinic schedule based on learning needs. Designed in order to allow the
learner flexibility in getting exposure across multiple clinic opportunities
as opposed to focused on one particular area.

**Enrichment:** Learner/academic advisor co-constructed learning objectives to
support pursuit of individual learning and career goals. Can be in the form of
clinical experiences, professional development (e.g. formal courses) or
scholarly activities.  

***Scholarly Project:** In addition to the 2 week block of time, residents
will have 4 full days (flexible scheduling) per academic year of longitudinal
time to work on their scholarly project.

**Vacation Time:** as per Professional Association of Residents of Ontario
(PARO) agreement.

**PGME Foundational Curriculum**

The PGME Foundational Curriculum has been designed to address competencies
that are not always fostered within the clinical learning environment with a
consistent approach across PGME programs.

**Foundations Course**

  * Introduction Module 
  * Professionalism and Code of Conduct Module 
  * Foundational Module 

**Communication Course  **

  * Team Based Care Module
  * Conflict Resolution/Critical Conversations Module
  * Patient and Family Centred Care Module

**Leadership Course  **

  * Introduction Module
  * Wellness and Resiliency Module 
  * Ethics/Choosing Wisely Module 
  * Fatigue Risk Management Module

**Continuous Quality Improvement and Patient Safety Course  **

  * Introduction Module 
  * Continuous Quality Improvement Module 
  * Patient Safety Module

**Research and Critical Appraisal Course**

  * Research Basics Module 
  * Health Literacy Module 
  * Critical Appraisal Module 
  * Elective module on Proposed Research Methodology

**Teaching Course  **

  * Resident as Teacher Module 
  * Presentations Module 
  * Large/Small Group Facilitation Module 
  * Bedside Teaching Module
  * Virtual Delivery of Education Module

**Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Accessibility, &
Reconciliation/Decolonization/Indigenous Resurgence (EDIA-RDIR) and Anti-
Racism Course**

  * Equity, Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Module 
  * Black Health Module 
  * Indigenous Health Module 
  * Accessibility Module 
  * Sexual and Gender Minorities Module 
  * Poverty Health Module

**LEARN Time**

A novel program called LEARN Time (Leadership, Education, Advocacy, Research,
and Non-clinical Time) will allow residents who are meeting or exceeding the
standards of their program to access protected time that they may direct
toward opportunities for experiential learning activities.  
  

  * It is anticipated that many residents will leverage this time to participate in work worthy of publication and scholarly work. While this program will be overseen by the Program’s Competence Subcommittees, central support for some elements of the LEARN Time program will also be provided. In particular, annual LEARN Time events will connect residents with individuals working in other areas of TMU, Peel, and surrounding committees. This will allow for some ‘scholarly matchmaking’ to happen outside of the Program to connect residents with a broader array of scholarly opportunities.  


  * Residents may also use LEARN time to engage in other leadership and advocacy work, such as with the Ontario Medical Association, Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, College of Family Physicians of Canada, Ontario College of Family Physicians, etc.), allowing residents to engage with formal leadership and other opportunities early on in their careers. Residents may also choose to engage in formal teaching and mentorship of TMU School of Medicine undergraduate medical students. They will be provided a formal curriculum as well as informal mentorship opportunities for developing teaching skills. 

* * *

# Training Sites

The TMU School of Medicine currently has clinical partnerships with four major
training sites:

  * [William Osler Health System](https://www.williamoslerhs.ca/en/index.aspx)
  * [Trillium Health Partners](https://www.thp.ca/Pages/Home.aspx)
  * [Headwaters Health Care Centre](https://www.headwatershealth.ca/)
  * [Halton Healthcare ](https://www.haltonhealthcare.on.ca/)

[**TMU Clinical Affiliate Map  
**  
](https://maphub.net/tmu_medicine/tmu-school-of-medicine-affiliations) As the
School of Medicine announces additional partnerships, the sites for core
program rotations may change. Residency training will leverage a distributed
model which may include training at any of these sites for learning in
environments, which include community and clinical settings, urban and rural
environments, and inpatient and outpatient settings. While the majority of
resident training will be focused in Peel and surrounding communities,
additional learning experiences may take place at other training sites within
Canada through Inter-University Affiliation Agreements. These agreements are
subject to change and result in training at sites other than those that are
listed above.

Travel to various locations will be required. Access to a personal vehicle
will be beneficial, though anyone with access to a reliable means of
transportation is encouraged to consider this program.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27683?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27683