#  McGill University - Orthopedic Surgery - Montreal

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Regular Stream for All  

##  Last approved on September 06, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Mitchell Bernstein  

Address Orthopaedic Residency Program  
Shriners Hospital for Children  
1003 Decarie Blvd.  
Montreal, Quebec, H4A 0A9  

Work  514 282-8317

Fax

Websites of Interest [ McGill Division of Orthopaedics
](http://www.mcgill.ca/orthopaedics/)  
[ PGME Website ](https://www.mcgill.ca/pgme/residency-programs)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: Orthopaedic Residency Program Office

Name: Catherine Klempa

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: orthopaedic.residency@mcgill.ca

Phone: 514-282-8317

  

General Information: Orthopaedic Residency Program Office

Name: Saida Perez Cordova

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: orthopaedic.residency@mcgill.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

McGill University's orthopaedic residency training program underwent a regular
Royal College accreditation site survey in March of 2019 and received full
approval by the Accreditation Committee for the next eight years.

All orthopaedic subspecialties are covered across our 5 teaching sites. This
includes, adult and pediatric Level 1 trauma, spine, sports, primary and
revision arthroplasty, pediatrics, msk oncology, upper extremity, limb
lengthening and deformity correction, and foot and ankle surgery.

We also offer an elective rotation in Gatineau for community orthopaedics.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

In addition to the completed CaRMS Application, all applicants should attach a
copy of their most recent résume (CV).

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP must be submitted with each application.  
EITHER:

  * A copy of Canadian Birth Certificate or a copy of Certificate of Canadian Citizenship

OR

  * A copy of Permanent Resident Card (copy of both sides of the card) OR a copy of an IMM 5292, IMM 1000, IMM 5688;   
NB: the Permanent Resident card can be expired.

OR

  * A copy of Citizenship Card (copy of both sides of the card)

P.S: the passport is not an acceptable proof of citizenship.

Each year, all candidates applying in a CaRMS match must provide proof of
valid current citizenship or permanent resident status. As of the 2021 R-1
match cycle, CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate
the citizenship/legal status verification, which is usually completed by
Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) offices.

if an applicant has had their citizenship/legal status documentation verified
by any of the following organizations for the current R-1 match, the applicant
will not be required to assign a proof of citizenship/PR document (as pictured
in the screenshot below).

  * Medical Council of Canada ([MCC](https://mcc.ca/))
  * British Columbia's Clinical Assessment Program ([BC-CAP](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/clinical-assessment/))
  * Bureau de cooperation interuniversitaire ([BCI](https://www.bci-qc.ca/en/))
  * Alberta International Medical Graduate Program ([AIMG](https://www.aimg.ca/))

For further information, please check the following link on CaRMS:
[https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-
citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-)

Examinations

Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the MCCQE Part I exam, please include the statement of
results and supplemental information report in your application.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the NAC exam, please include the statement of results and
supplemental information report in your application. The MCCQE Part II or
Certificate of Registration of the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada
(LMCC) is accepted in place of the NAC Examination.

Reference documents

Required

Orthopedic Surgery structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter should include the explanation of academic background and
how it may be particularly suited for this discipline.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

USMLE Transcript

Our program wishes to review USMLEs in the case that an applicant has them,
but it is obviously not a required document for those that do not have it.



Additional required IMG documents

Lettre de reconnaissance de l'équivalence du diplôme MD

Please provide the results of the exams that permitted you to have your
medical degree recognized and approved by the CMQ.

Graduates with the diploma of doctor of osteopathy awarded by a school of
osteopathic medicine situated in the United States providing that the school
is accredited by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the
American Osteopathic Association do not have to obtain the recognition of the
equivalence of the medical diploma by the CMQ. These graduates do not require
the MCCQE Part I, the National Assessment Collaboration (NAC), or the
Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada (LMCC) in order to apply.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 6, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Thursday, February 6, 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: A personal interview is mandatory for
all applicants who have been short listed. Interviews will take place on
Thursday, February 6, 2025. At the present time, interviews will only be held
virtually. There are three teams of interviewers, including one team of
residents. We value the interview process as an important means of selection
criteria.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We encourage applicants to have completed at least one elective in Orthopaedic
Surgery in order to be considered for an interview.

In addition to demonstrating a strong interest in the speciality, the
candidate should be well-rounded, outgoing, and academically successful.

Personal letters of references are welcome from all specialties and interview
performance plays an important role in the selection process.

All applicants should include a copy of their most recent resume (CV).

## Program goals

Our mission at the McGill University Orthopaedic Surgery Residency program is
not only to educate future Orthopaedic surgeons, but to welcome you into our
family and help guide you along your path of development towards your future
goals.

We expect our residents to graduate with competence in surgical skills,
indications, and research.  In addition, we support wellness, diversity, and
leadership.

Our program appreciates a positive work/life balance. We have frequent social
activities amongst the residents and staff, as well as a resident-only
retreat.

## Selection process goals

Applicants are highly encouraged to demonstrate the ability to be a team
player, have academic excellence, as well as demonstrate interest in
Orthopaedic surgery. Applicants should demonstrate ability to interact
appropriately with patients and colleagues alike and demonstrate ability and
enthusiasm. As well, they should learn to adapt to the various demands of
orthopaedic surgery. Extra-curricular academic endeavours are highly
encouraged and should be included in your curriculum vitae for further
assessment.





## File review process

Review team composition : The interview process is composed of two panels of
orthopedic surgeons and one solely composed of resident representatives.  
  
The candidates will be interviewed by a variety of academic faculty, including
the program and assistant program director, as well as the chief and assistant
chief residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Please include. We will evaluate research, publications, electives, and extra-curricular activities   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Please include details in your application and CV (specifically Orthopaedic related)   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  MCCQE and USMLE, if available   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Please include all activities including volunteering (medical and non-medical) and mentoring   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Any leadership positions held in the last 5 years   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Team player, interpersonal skills, reliable and safe   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Indicating interest in Orthopaedic surgery as well as work ethic during elective rotations   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Interpersonal skills and teamwork   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in participation in future research projects   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We prefer applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Applicantswho complete an on site-elective allows the staff and residents to
objectively evaluate the candidate's performance. The McGill Division of
Orthopaedics allows a 2 to 4 week rotation which we feel gives us a better
overall assessment of the elective student. It is therefore recommended but
not essential that applicants interested in applying to McGill University
Orthopaedic Residency Program should complete an on-site elective.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high-quality patient care through working in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Behaviour, attitude, ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak and write in English.   
Health advocacy |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Interest in the discipline |  Ability to play the role of an orthopaedic surgeon as a compassionate and well-rounded physician   
Interest in the program |  Extremely important   
Leadership skills |  Involvement in orthopaedic related projects   
Professionalism |  Correspondence with residents   
Scholarly activities |  Completed or in progress research projects are recommended but not essential   
Other interview component(s) |  Personable, friendly, dynamic and showing examples of collegiality are important personality characteristics.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  Not showing dedication to the orthopaedic surgical specialty  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

One of the strengths of the Program is the diversity in orthopaedic
subspecialties. This includes: orthopaedic spine, musculoskeletal oncology,
upper extremity, sports, pediatrics, limb lengthening and limb deformity
surgery, joint replacement (arthroplasty) and orthopaedic trauma. Our trainers
have access to the provincial Level-1 pediatric and adult trauma centers.  

An important feature of our Program is that the only Shriners Hospital for
Children in Canada is located in Montréal.  The Shriners has a huge referral
area within Canada, United States, and the world and offers a unique training
in pediatric orthopaedics which includes 2 hospitals, the Shriners Hospital
where all elective cases are done and the Montreal Children's Hospital (level
1 trauma) where all trauma cases are done.  Furthermore, its basic science
laboratories and animal facilities located within the hospital further
strengthen the leadership role of the Shriners Hospital and the Division of
Orthopaedics at McGill University in clinical excellence and cutting edge
research in musculoskeletal conditions.

As well, there are numerous research labs located across the Orthopaedic
Division which enable residents to be involved in research.

All off service rotations are done in the 1st year. Options to do a MASTER'S
PROGRAM/Research is available.

Three elective periods are allotted to each resident during their R3, R4 and
R5 years. Residents may also choose to take two years to complete a Master's
of Science in Experimental Surgery if they so desire.

Various social activities are planned throughout the year for the residents to
bond and socialize outside of a hospital setting. Events such as seasonal
BBQs, weekend retreats and social nights foster a strong sense of collegiality
amongst our residents.

All staff in the Division of Orthopaedics are fellowship trained and most have
excellent opportunities in clinical and basic science research.

The five MUHC teaching hospitals provide comprehensive exposure to the full
diversity of orthopaedic conditions with graded levels of responsibility based
on resident level.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada: Applying competency-based
practices to residency education

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/competence-design-e), aims to enhance
patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving
patient needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education
process.

CBD has been implemented in Orthopaedic Surgery already! Residents will
progress through their training in
"[stages](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/documents/cbd/cbd-competence-
continuum-diagram-legal-e.pdf)", and each stage will have a series of
milestones based on required competencies. These milestones will create more
targeted learning outcomes and involve more frequent, formative assessments
within the clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving
feedback on the skills they need.



Curriculum  
  

The general career goal of this residency program is to produce a clinically
competent orthopaedic surgeon who realizes the importance of ongoing critical
evaluation of surgical procedures and continuing appreciation of current
trends in orthopaedic practice. The stimulation of young  minds to pursue the
accumulation of knowledge and apply such to the practice of orthopaedic
surgery is of utmost importance.  Throughout this residency program, residents
are given the opportunity for primary patient management, as well as ever
increasing responsibility for the performance of surgical procedures. Graded
responsibility is an expected sequence throughout the training program. There
are also rotation-specific educational goals for each level of training.
Training in adult and paediatric orthopaedic surgery is accomplished in three
adult and two paediatric facilities.

  
  

First year (PGY-1)  
  

The R1 year is relegated to the development of clinical skills as they apply
to surgery as a general speciality.  This year provides the framework of
knowledge and surgical skills in surgery and to pass the Surgical Foundations
Exam.  The PGY1's spend five blocks in orthopaedics during this year.



  
  

PGY-2 to 5  
  

The second year of the CORE Surgery Program for orthopaedics consists of 13
blocks (one year) of orthopaedic surgery.  In our Program, all the Core
Surgery rotations are concentrated during the PGY1 year.



Residents rotate through the following rotations:

\- Trauma and limb deformity correction

\- Spine

\- Arthroplasty

\- Oncology

\- Paediatrics (includes exposure to trauma, Peds sports, Peds upper
extremity, Peds spine, and deformity correction)

\- Sports Medicine

\- Upper Extremity

\- Foot and Ankle

\- Hand/Wrist

The combination of surgical and outpatient exposure are paramount to the
training program and all residents are exposed and training will result in the
ability to assess patients and display adequate judgement in patient
management. Operative exposure and responsibility increases with increasing
PGY levels. The overall focus of our program is to produce a competent general
orthopaedic surgeon capable of practicing general orthopaedics independently
in a safe and competent way and also successfully passing the certifying exams
of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada and the American
Board of Orthopaedic Surgery.

  
  

Research  
  

Residents are required to complete a minimum of two clinical/basic science
research projects suitable for publication and/or presentation at a major
national or international orthopaedic meeting during his/her training. There
are opportunities for Masters of Science or Ph.D. through the Surgical
Scientist Program during the course of residency training. With the transition
of training to Competence By Design (CBD), residents will be required to
produce at least one peer-reviewed publication during their residency.



Seminars  
  

A resident Academic Half-Day is held each week with residents being excused
from clinical responsibilities. In addition, each participating hospital
maintains clinical rounds and journal clubs. Residents are expected to
actively participate in these academic activities. As well, there is one
Pediatric Orthopaedic Visiting Professor and one Adult Orthopaedic Visiting
Professor in which all residents are relieved of their duties to attend these
special academic days.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

Sites:

\- Jewish General Hospital, 3755 Chemin de la Cote-Sainte-Catherine, Montreal,
QC H3T 1E2

\- Montreal General Hospital, 1650 Cedar Avenue, Montreal, QC H3G 1A4

\- Montreal Children's Hospital, 1001 Decarie Blvd., Montreal, QC H4A 3J1

\- Shriners Hospital For Children, 1003 Decarie Blvd., Montreal, QC H4A 0A9

\- St Mary's Hospital, 3830 Lacombe Ave., Montreal, QC H3T 1M5

* * *

# Additional Information

Quick Facts

\- There are opportunities for inter-provincial and out-of-province electives
while training in our program and the Royal College.

\- A 2 month community rotation is now mandatory as required by the Royal
College.

\- The resident-staff ratio is approximately one to one.

\- An electronic library is available to the residents at each hospital
centre.

\- Social activities are arranged every 2 months by the Social Representative
of the Residents.

\- CanMEDS lectures are instituted in the Academic Half-Day Teaching, in
keeping with the Royal College requirements.

\- Each Summer, there are weekly anatomy sessions in which the focus is on the
relationship between anatomical structures and surgical approaches.

\- We have our very own Orthopaedic Simulation Centre where cadaveric
dissections, sawbones, arthroscopy modules, etc. are used to enhance the
educational curriculum.





* * *

# FAQ

The McGill Orthopaedic Residency does not accept late applications.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26838?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26838