#  McGill University - Neurology - Montreal

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Regular Stream for All  

##  Last approved on October 23, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Stuart Lubarsky  

Address Neurology  
Montreal General Hospital  
1650 Cedar Ave, Room L7-313  
Montreal, Quebec, H3G 1A4  

Work  5149348059

Fax

Websites of Interest [ McGill PGME Events ](https://www.mcgill.ca/pgme/events)  
[ McGill Post Graduate Medical Education.
](http://www.med.mcgill.ca/postgrad/)  
[ McGill Neurology website - new site to be uploaded soon
](https://www.neurology.mcgill.ca/residency.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: TBA

Title: Coordinator, Neurology Program

Email: residency.neurology@mcgill.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

The McGill Adult Neurology Residency Training program transitioned to CBD in
July 2020. See below for further information.



***

Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada: Applying competency-based
practices to residency education

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/competence-design-e), aims to enhance
patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving
patient needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education
process.

CBD uses [time as a
framework](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e)
rather than as the basis for progression. It is not anticipated that the
duration of training will change for the majority of trainees. Residency
programs are broken down into
[stages](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/documents/cbd/cbd-competence-
continuum-diagram-legal-e.pdf), and each stage has a series of milestones
based on required competencies. These milestones create more targeted learning
outcomes and involve more frequent, formative assessments within the clinical
workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving feedback on the
skills they need.

The Royal College anticipates that all specialty and subspecialty programs in
Canada will adopt CBD in gradual phases. All disciplines have been divided
into seven cohort groups, each of which will adopt CBD at different times. It
is anticipated that national implementation of CBD within certain, individual
programs could begin as early as July 2017 - with more disciplines to
following in subsequent years.

  * Please visit the [Proposed CBD Rollout Schedule](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/implementation/proposed-cbd-rollout-schedule-e) to find out when residents entering into the Adult Neurology Program could potentially experience CBD.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and
traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification. Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs
will include the completion of a Royal College examination; however, residents
in CBD programs will also be assessed against program milestones throughout
their training. Within a CBD program, all milestones (documented within an
electronic portfolio) and the Royal College examination must be successfully
completed to achieve certification.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

Applicants can apply in English or in French.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP must be submitted with each application.  
EITHER:

  * A copy of Canadian Birth Certificate or a copy of Certificate of Canadian Citizenship

OR

  * A copy of Permanent Resident Card (copy of both sides of the card) OR a copy of an IMM 5292, IMM 1000, IMM 5688;   
NB: the Permanent Resident card can be expired.

OR

  * A copy of Citizenship Card (copy of both sides of the card)

P.S: the passport is not an acceptable proof of citizenship.

Each year, all candidates applying in a CaRMS match must provide proof of
valid current citizenship or permanent resident status. As of the 2021 R-1
match cycle, CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate
the citizenship/legal status verification, which is usually completed by
Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) offices.

if an applicant has had their citizenship/legal status documentation verified
by any of the following organizations for the current R-1 match, the applicant
will not be required to assign a proof of citizenship/PR document (as pictured
in the screenshot below).

  * Medical Council of Canada ([MCC](https://mcc.ca/))
  * British Columbia's Clinical Assessment Program ([BC-CAP](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/clinical-assessment/))
  * Bureau de cooperation interuniversitaire ([BCI](https://www.bci-qc.ca/en/))
  * Alberta International Medical Graduate Program ([AIMG](https://www.aimg.ca/))

For further information, please check the following link on CaRMS:
[https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-
citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-)

Examinations

Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the MCCQE Part I exam, please include the statement of
results and supplemental information report in your application.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the NAC exam, please include the statement of results and
supplemental information report in your application. The MCCQE Part II or
Certificate of Registration of the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada
(LMCC) is accepted in place of the NAC Examination.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. Although most applicants to our
program submit three letters from staff neurologists we accept letters from
non-neurologists and from residents. References from people who know the
candidate well and can clearly explain their strengths can be very valuable.
Late references will not be accepted.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Require autobiographical letter describing the applicant and specific
interests in the program. Other topics to cover include: reasons for their
interest in the McGill Neurology program; the strengths they would bring to
the program; a description of the path that led them to apply to neurology;
and their future career goals.

Custom Résumé / CV

Additional required IMG documents

Lettre de reconnaissance de l'équivalence du diplôme MD

Please provide the results of the exams that permitted you to have your
medical degree recognized and approved by the CMQ.

Graduates with the diploma of doctor of osteopathy awarded by a school of
osteopathic medicine situated in the United States providing that the school
is accredited by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the
American Osteopathic Association do not have to obtain the recognition of the
equivalence of the medical diploma by the CMQ. These graduates do not require
the MCCQE Part I, the National Assessment Collaboration (NAC), or the
Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada (LMCC) in order to apply.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: January 22 and 23, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: There will be 5-7 separate
interviews. Each interview will be with 1-2 members of the residency training
program committee and will last 12-15 minutes.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Applications are reviewed and ranked by the program director and the resident
members of the Residency Training Program Committee.

We select, on average, 30-35 candidates for interviews.

Interviews are conducted by a team composed of the program director as well as
both staff and resident members of the Residency Training Program Committee.

Final selection and ranking of candidates is done immediately following the
final interview, and is based on both file review and the interview. All
members of the interview team are involved in this process.





## Program goals

The overall goal of the McGill Adult Neurology residency training program is
to produce neurologists with the competence to effectively diagnose and manage
the care of patients with neurological diseases. Residents who graduate from
our program will have the ability to pursue the career that they choose,
whether it is to enter directly into general Neurology practice or to pursue
further training in a subspecialty.  We expect our residents to have strong
interpersonal skills, to have a strong interest in Neurology, to be
enthusiastic about learning more about all aspects of Neurology, and to be
willing to teach others. By the time residents graduate they should excel at
taking a neurological history, localizing problems, and developing strategies
to improve the lives of their patients.  
---  
  
## Selection process goals

Strong interpersonal skills, work ethic, reception to feedback, and ability to
work well with the other residents and staff in our program are the attributes
we place the highest premium on in our program.

Successful applicants will also have a strong interest in Neurology. This can
be demonstrated in many ways including (but not limited to) elective
selections, research experiences, content of personal letters, and interviews.
Please note that we do not require a minimum number of electives or a minimum
amount of research experience, provided that candidates can demonstrate their
passion for pursuing a career in neurology.

Finally, we are looking for candidates who are motivated to learn about
Neurology and improve their abilities and skills. They should excel at
independent study, taking initiative in both their own learning and patient
care, and assuming leadership roles in neurological education and training.

## File review process

Review team composition : Applications are reviewed and ranked by the program
director and select resident members of the Resident Training Committee.
Interviews are conducted by the program director and all staff and resident
members of the Training Committee. Final selection/ranking of candidates is
done as a group.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
n/a

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  
We consider the entire application file with particular weight placed on
letters of reference, the candidate's interest in Neurology and their interest
in our program.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We evaluate all of the content. We are interested in the range of experiences that a candidate has had. This could include outside interests, travel, work experience, or volunteer experience and is not limited to more academic content such as research and awards.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We do not require a minimum number of electives in Neurology. We do look at this section as one way to judge interest in Neurology. Most applicants to our program have done multiple electives in Neurology. If you have not, but you are passionate about Neurology, then you should still apply! You simply need to explain how you made your decision to apply to Neurology (in your personal letter and/or interviews). We also recognize that different institutions have different policies on elective selection, and take this into account when we read through your file.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We usually do not evaluate this file component because it is too inconsistent between candidates.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We evaluate all of the content. We are very interested in everything that a candidate has done and what it can tell us about them as a person.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  We are very interested in evidence of leadership and teaching experience. By the time our residents reach their PGY-2 year we expect them to act as mentors for PGY-1 residents. By the PGY-3 year they are expected to lead a Neurology consultation team, teach junior residents and students, and may join the Residency Program Committee. In PGY-5 residents may serve as the Chief Neurology Resident. In short, strong leadership skills are an asset.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  We look for evidence of strong interpersonal skills and clinical ability. MSPRs from Canadian medical schools continue to be very heterogeneous in their reporting of grades and evaluations. This makes it difficult to compare candidates from different schools and we place far less emphasis on grades.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Tell us about yourself! What is special about you that sets you apart from other candidates? Why do you love Neurology? Why would you work well with our residents and staff? Why would our program be a good fit for you? You don't need to be Shakespeare (or Moliere), but please be thoughtful and original.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Reference letters are the most important part of a candidate's file because they tell us the most about interpersonal skills, motivation, critical thinking, and ability to work independently. Most candidates submit reference letters from neurologists but this is not required. A letter from someone who knows you well and can clearly describe your strengths can be very valuable.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We evaluate all of the content provided here but we do not require research experience. The amount of research experience and number of publications can often be more a result of a candidate's age and educational background rather than their ability. If you love Neurology then you should apply to our program regardless of what you enter in this section.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We do evaluate this section but, as with the MSPR, the quality and quantity of information varies widely between candidates and so we do not put strong emphasis on it.   
Other file component(s) |  Other file component (s)   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We have no requirements regarding the completion of
electives. We will consider applicants who have not completed any electives in
Adult Neurology. We recognize that a candidate may only become interested in
Neurology after all their electives are completed. We are also very aware of
how difficult the elective process has been since COVID-19.

On Site Elective: From 2020-2024 no candidates from other schools were able to
complete visiting onsite electives. We understand that this has been extremely
stressful for candidates. It is important to know that even in prior years we
have never required onsite electives. We always understood that elective time
was limited and candidates could not do electives at every program. We have
ranked individual candidates highly even if they did not do electives at
McGill. So please apply, show us why you would be a great resident, and tell
us why you love Neurology!

Other information regarding elective requirement:

n/a  

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work with others to seek solutions to problems.   
Collegiality |  Attitude and ability to work and learn with others   
Communication skills |  Ability to express themselves clearly and succinctly   
Health advocacy |  Motivation to improve the health of patients.   
Interest in the discipline |  Fascination with the nervous system, love of localization/problem-solving, desire to help others   
Interest in the program |  Would the candidate be happy in our program?   
Leadership skills |  Ability to lead by example, to be a mentor, and motivation to improve   
Professionalism |  Quality of interaction; takes the interview seriously, respects others, demonstrates their abilities   
Scholarly activities |  May be evaluated depending on the applicant’s experience   
Other interview component(s) |  We are looking for candidates who are honest, thoughtful, original, and enthusiastic during the interview. On average we receive approximately 70 applications and we interview 30-35 candidates. If you are chosen for an interview it is because we already think that you would be a good Neurology resident. To be ranked highly you need to be able to show us what is special about you, and why you think our program would be a good fit for you. Try to be yourself. Try to be original. Show us why you should become a McGill Adult Neurology resident!   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The program's strengths are:

1\. A smaller number of residents. On average we have 4-5 residents per year
(including international medical graduates), which allows residents to have
the support of their peers while not feeling overwhelmed by being part of a
larger program.

2\. The interaction between clinical neurology and neuroscience. All residents
complete 6 months of research. This can be in diverse areas including but not
limited to basic neuroscience, clinical neurology, neuroimaging,
electrophysiology, education research, or epidemiology. At McGill we are
fortunate to have a large number of researchers in diverse fields who can
become supervisors and mentors to residents.

3\. The opportunity to learn at multiple different training sites. This is
described in greater detail in another section. It allows residents to work in
different practice settings and learn from Neurologists with different
experiences.

4\. A diverse faculty with expertise in general neurology and many sub-
specialties.

5\. An atmosphere of collegiality, wellness, respect and mutual support that
we work hard as a program to foster and maintain.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.



**Introduction**  
---  
As of 2020, we follow a Competency By Design (CBD) curriculum that divides
training into 4 stages (see below): Transition to Discipline, Foundations of
Discipline, Core of Discipline, and Transition to Practice. There are no
mandatory rural rotations at this time. A curriculum template is given below.
Residents rotate at the Montreal Neurological Hospital (MNH), Royal Victoria
Hospital (RVH), Montreal General Hospital (MGH), Jewish General Hospital
(JGH), Montreal Children's Hospital (MCH), and Montreal Neurology Clinic (an
outpatient facility).  
  


**Template for Adult Neurology (Summary)**

**5-year program**



**Rotations** |  **# periods**  
---|---  
Neurology Consult and CTU |  22  
Internal Medicine and Subspecialties |  8  
Electives |  8  
Neuroscience Research |  6  
Neurology Outpatient Clinics |  5  
Pediatric Neurology |  3  
Epilepsy-EEG |  3  
EMG |  3  
Physiatry |  1  
Palliative Care |  1  
Psychiatry |  1  
Emergency Medicine |  1  
Neurology (NICU) |  1  
Neuro-Ophthalmology |  1  
Neuroradiology |  1  
Neurology Longitudinal Clinic |  Continuous  
**TOTAL** |  **65**  
  


**  
**

**Template for Adult Neurology Training Experiences**

** **

**Transition to Discipline (TtD)**

**3 periods (PGY1)**



**Rotation** |  **# periods**  
---|---  
Neurology General CTU |  1  
Neurology Consult |  1  
Internal Medicine CTU |  1  
  




**Foundation of Discipline (FoD):**

**22 periods (PGY 2-3)**



**Rotation** |  **# periods**  
---|---  
Neurology Consult |  3  
Neurology Stroke CTU |  2  
Neurology General CTU |  2  
 Neurology Outpatient Clinics |  2  
Electives |  2  
Neurology ICU (NICU) |  1  
Neuroradiology |  1  
Junior EMG |  1  
Internal Medicine ICU |  1  
Internal Medicine CTU |  1  
Internal Medicine Consult |  1  
Cardiology Consult/CCU |  1  
Emergency Medicine |  1  
Rheumatology Consult |  1  
Endocrinology Consult |  1  
Psychiatry Consult/Liaison |  1  
Neurology Longitudinal Clinic |  Continuous (as of PGY2)  
  




**Core of Discipline (CoD):**

**32 periods (PGY 3-5)**



**Rotation** |  **# periods**  
---|---  
Neuroscience Research |  6  
Electives |  4  
Neurology Consult |  3  
Neurology General CTU |  3  
Pediatric Neurology |  3  
Neurology Stroke CTU |  2  
 Neurology Outpatient Clinics |  2  
Neurology Epilepsy CTU |  2                            
Senior EMG |  2  
EEG |  1  
Palliative Care |  1  
Physiatry |  1  
Neuro-ophthalmology |  1  
Internal Medicine Subspecialty |  1  
Neurology Longitudinal Clinic |  Continuous  
  




**Transition to Practice (TtP):**

**8 periods (PGY5)**



# Rotation

|  **# periods**  
---|---  
Neurology Consult |  3 (includes 4 weeks junior staff)  
Electives |  2  
Neurology Stroke CTU |  1  
Neurology General CTU |  1  
 Neurology Outpatient Clinics |  1  
Neurology Longitudinal Clinic |  Continuous  
  
** **

** **

** **

** **

**Updated August 2024 (SL)**



* * *

# Training Sites

Introduction

Neurology at McGill is a university-wide program, with five participating
hospitals: the Montreal Neurological Hospital (MNH); the McGill University
Health Centre (MUHC) - Montreal General Hospital site (MGH); the MUHC - Royal
Victoria Hospital/Glen site (RVH); the Jewish General Hospital (JGH); and the
Montreal Children's Hospital (MCH). We aim to produce excellent clinical
neurologists with a good grounding in the basic neurosciences. Trainees come
from diverse backgrounds, educationally and culturally, including English and
French Canada, and elsewhere in the world.

**Montreal Neurological Hospital and Institute (MNH)**

The MNH in-patient Neurology services consist of the CTU of 10-15 General
Neurology beds, a 15-25 bed Stroke CTU, and the Epilepsy Monitoring unit (6
beds, 2-3 designated for monitoring). Residents are assigned to these three
units. The MNH is a tertiary stroke centre and acts as the referral site for
patients requiring interventional radiology/thrombectomy. There is a neuro ICU
in which residents do a required 1 month rotation. There are many specialty
clinics, e.g. movement disorders, MS, ALS , neuropathy, neuromuscular, post-
polio. Residents have opportunities to rotate through these. A full range of
investigative facilities is available at the MNH including MRI , CT, PET, EEG,
EMG. Residents spend time in neuroradiology, EMG, and EEG. Exposure to the
many neuroscientists of the MNH is an important part of the training
experience in this institution.



**McGill University Health Centre (MUHC) Montreal General Hospital Site
(MGH)**

The MGH has a neurology consultation service. There are approximately six
hundred emergency and in-patient consultations per year. Specialty out-patient
clinics include stroke, movement disorders, neuropathy, and myasthenia gravis.
There is a large and active neuroscience research unit.



**McGill University Health Centre (MUHC) Royal Victoria Hospital/Glen Site
(RVH)**

The new RVH at the Glen site opened in the spring of 2015 and replaced the old
Royal Victoria Hospital. There is an active neurology ER and in-patient
consultation service. The RVH has large Oncology and Transplantation services
that provide Neurology residents exposure to patients with unusual disorders
such as paraneoplastic syndromes and complications from immune checkpoint
inhibitors. It also has an Obstetrical unit that provides residents
opportunities to evaluate patients with the neurological complications of
pregnancy and post-partum.



**Jewish General Hospital (JGH)**

The JGH has an extremely active neurology consultation service. There are
approximately 2000 emergency and in-patient neurology consultations per year.
A new emergency room opened in 2014 and a new combined stroke and neurosurgery
in-patient floor (along with new ICU, OR's, and medical floors) opened in
January, 2016. Residents spend the majority of their time on the consultation
service and may spend a maximum of one week per period on the Stroke service.
Specialty out-patient clinics include stroke, movements disorders, MS,
autonomic nervous system, dementia/cognitive neurology, and neurology/internal
medicine. There is a busy EMG lab that sees 70 patients per week, as well as
EEG and autonomic labs. There is also an active Neuroscience Research Unit.



**Montreal Children's Hospital (MCH)**

The MCH is located at the same site as the Glen. The hospital has two in-
patient video EEG monitoring beds and two portable video EEG monitoring units
for the ICU's. The MCH has an active in-patient consultation service and sees
5000 out-patient visits in neurology per year. This hospital offers a broad
spectrum of clinical pediatric neurology.



**Montreal Neuro Clinic at 5100 De Maisonneuve Ouest**

This is a spacious out-patient Neurology facility located close to the RVH.
Beginning in the PGY-2 year residents spend one half day per month here when
on a service rotation and one full day per month when on an off-service
rotation. The site hosts General Neurology clinics, specialty Neurology
clinics, and EMG. Residents are strongly encouraged to follow patients
longitudinally.



**Other**

Residents have full access to McGill Health Sciences Library and Services. In
addition, at each site there is a dedicated residents' computer with access to
internet, hospital laboratory data, and medical imaging, plus a variety of
software resources.

* * *

# Additional Information

1\. There are opportunities for rural, interprovincial and international
electives with the approval of the residency training committee (RTC).

2\. The ratio of residents to faculty is 20 residents to 60 staff.

3\. There is an academic half day held every Wednesday morning from
08:30-12:30. The AHD consists of three parts:

The first hour is McGill Neurology Grand Rounds with local or invited
speakers. Topics range from clinical Neurology to basic neurosciences. The
Neurology residency program arranges one session per month.

The second and third hours consist of interactive lectures given by faculty.
There is a two year repeating curriculum that emphasizes topics seen less
frequently on the clinical services.

The fourth half-hour is arranged by the residents or fellows. It may include
clinical pearls, review of continuum articles, EEG/EMG cases, neuroanatomy
sessions, or other topics of interest to the residents.

4\. In addition to the AHD, teaching sessions called "Morning Reports" occur
twice a week (on Tuesdays and Fridays). With a focus on clinical reasoning,
these case-based sessions are alternately led by staff and residents. One
session per month is also dedicated to review of neuroradiological cases with
fellows in neuroradiology.

5\. The resident training committee is chaired by the Program Director and is
composed of staff from each of the McGill training sites, as well as senior
and junior resident representatives from the program.

6\. PGY-5 residents have the opportunity to serve as the Chief Neurology
resident(s).

7. Residents have the opportunity to serve as the McGill Neurology Wellness representative. This role involves organizing social activities, being a resource for fellow Neurology residents, and coordinating with the McGill Well office.

8\. Residents also chair the CAP (Curriculum Action Plan) Committee, whose
mandate is to continually review and revise the educational and training
activities of the program through formal quality improvement processes.

9\. In August 2019 the residents held their first annual weekend resident
retreat at a resort in the Laurentians. The retreat emphasized collegiality
and team-building activities. They have continued to hold this event in from
2021 onwards with the PGY-2s organizing the weekend yearly!!

10. McGill has an Institute for Health Sciences Education (IHSE). Members of our department are IHSE members and conduct research in Health Sciences education. It is possible for residents to complete a one-month elective in Health Sciences education or to complete their six months of research in Education. There are numerous opportunities for residents to be involved with formal teaching of medical students. This can include lectures, small groups, and the anatomy lab.

11\. Residents receive $1750 annually to attend conferences if they are
presenting a talk or poster and $1000 if they are not. Exceptionally during
the COVID-19 pandemic residents are allowed to use these funds for other
purposes such as purchasing textbooks.

12. Residents are matched to mentors. PGY-1 residents are assigned a PGY-2 residents mentor. PGY-2 residents are assigned a faculty mentor from the RPC. Residents are free to continue with this mentor in subsequent years or choose another mentor from our diverse faculty.

13. The majority of our residents pursue fellowship training after graduation. We can offer strong support for fellowship applications. They have the opportunity to do electives in virtually all sub-specialty areas at McGill. When necessary we are very supportive of residents doing electives elsewhere to support their fellowship applications. We also allow residents the time to attend fellowship interviews. In recent years our graduates have been accepted for fellowships at UCSF, Stanford, Mayo Clinic, Cleveland Clinic, Harvard, and University College London.

14. We have a strong group of General Neurologists at McGill. We fully support residents who choose to enter practice immediately following their residency. 

15. Residents are offered 6 protected periods of dedicated neuroscience research time that they can use to complete a project in the area of their choice. Under the guidance of a supervisor, residents in our program undertake clinical, basic science, educational, and epidemiological research, according to their interests. They are expected to present their work at our annual Neurology Day, and are also encouraged to present their results at organized conferences. If a resident completes their research early, they may use some of these months as elective time at the discretion of the program director.

16\. During the R3 year, residents are also expected to complete a continuous
quality improvement (CQI) project evaluating some aspect of the program's
training curriculum, and present their work at a dedicated session at the end
of each academic year. Several of these projects have resulted in tangible
changes to our training program.

* * *

# FAQ

We do not require applicants to have prior research experience. Research can
be a way to demonstrate interest in Neurology/neuroscience, motivation/work
ethic, critical thinking, and the ability to work in teams.  However, all of
these can be demonstrated in other ways. Applicants should NOT feel reluctant
to apply because they have no research experience.

We do not require a minimum number of Neurology electives. In the past the
vast majority of applicants to our program have completed Neurology electives.
Our program supports the new policy whereby Canadian medical students can
complete a maximum of 8 weeks of electives in one discipline. We will consider
applications from applicants who have not completed any electives in
Neurology, provided that they can justify their interest in the specialty and
in our program. We recognize that students may only become interested in a
specialty late in medical school.

We do not require applicants to complete a Neurology elective at McGill. Due
to the covid-19 pandemic, from 2020-2024 no candidates were been able to
complete visiting electives. Even in prior years we recognized that applicants
were not able to complete electives at every program. We have always made
every effort to grant interviews to applicants who have completed an elective
at McGill, but we also interviewed candidates who have never completed an
elective at McGill. In the past we have highly ranked strong applicants who
have not done an elective at McGill.

We give no preference to province or country of origin and strongly encourage
applications from outside of Quebec.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26318?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26318