#  University of Calgary - Neurology - Pediatric - Calgary  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 09, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Colleen Curtis  

Address Pediatric Neurology  
Alberta Children's Hospital  
28 Oki Dr. NW  
Calgary AB , Alberta, T3B 6A8  

Work  (403) 955-2481

(403) 955-5465

Websites of Interest [ Pediatric Neurology UofC
](https://sites.google.com/view/pediatricneurologyuofc/home)  
[ University of Calgary Pediatric Neurology
](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/departments/pediatrics/sections/neurology)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Amber Sando

Title: Education Coordinator

Email: amber.sando@ahs.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Competence by Design (CBD)

Competence by Design (CBD) is the national Royal College education initiative.
Similarly to all of the residency programs across the country, Pediatric
Neurology at the University of Calgary has made the transition to CBD July 1,
2020. The successful candidate will be the fifth to join in our full CBD
curriculum. In addition to curriculum and rotation changes to meet CBD
requirements, the resident will also be paired with an academic advisor who
meets with the resident regularly for mentorship and progress monitoring and
support. Resident progression through the stages of training is determined by
the Competence Committee. With extensive faculty and resident engagement and
education, our transition to the CBD model has been smooth and resident
feedback is largely positive. We are committed to ensuring resident success.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three (3) letters of reference are required.



Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

The letter should include; the reason(s) why you have chosen to pursue a
career in Pediatric Neurology, why you think our Program and the University of
Calgary are a good fit for you, your personal strengths and weaknesses, and
your interests outside of medicine.

Please limit your letter to 1000 words.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Abstract/Publications

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All applications are reviewed by a panel including faculty, residents and
other members of the Pediatric Neurology team. This review includes all
aspects of each file.

The review committee makes recommendations about which candidates should be
invited for interviews. Every attempt is made to interview all candidates
receiving this recommendation. The Program Director notifies the candidates
through the CaRMS website and by email.

At the formal interview, each candidate will meet with multiple interviewers
as well as having an informal meeting with the residents.

After completion of the interviews a discussion is held with all members of
the Selection Committee and a rank order is developed that is submitted to
CaRMS.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 24, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interview date Friday January 24, 2024  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The program interviews approximately
10 candidates each year.  
  
The interview will be conducted virtually for all invited candidates. It will
be largely comprised of structured case scenarios with interviewing teams
including the program director, pediatric neurology residents, and other
members of the pediatric neurology team. An informal group meeting with the
residents will be offered for all interviewees.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The Pediatric Neurology Program at the University of Calgary seeks individuals
with a strong academic record, proven interest in neurology and clinical
neurosciences and demonstrated interest in pediatrics.

References should attest to integrity, energy, executive ability in planning
and completing tasks, and exemplary interpersonal skills. Maturity, empathy,
sensitivity and strong communication skills are highly valued.  

Candidates with an interest in basic, translational, or clinical research are
also encouraged to apply.

## Program goals

The University of Calgary Pediatric Neurology Residency Training Program is
dedicated to educating residents in Neurology with expertise in pediatric
neurological concerns.  Upon completion of training in Pediatric Neurology, a
resident is expected to be an expert in the prevention, diagnosis, and
management of patients with diseases of the nervous system, and to integrate
all of the CanMEDS roles to reach the highest standards of competency, ethical
behavior, and patient-centered medical care.  

The core values of the Section of Neurology are aligned with those of Alberta
health Services [AHS Vision, Mission, Values &
Strategies](https://www.albertahealthservices.ca/about/Page190.aspx) and the
Departments of Pediatrics <https://www.ucalgary.ca/paed/about>, and Clinical
Neurosciences <https://www.ucalgary.ca/dcns/about-dcns/vision-goals>. We
strive for excellence using evidence-based practice in patient care and
advocacy. The program fosters learning through an atmosphere of collegiality,
mutual respect, and collaboration. We are committed to advancing the quality
of care and well-being of children impacted by neurological conditions and
supporting their families and communities.

We emphasize the pursuit of excellence in clinical and academic Neurology and
instill intellectual curiosity for the academic and community leaders of
tomorrow.  We model healthy lifestyles and strive to create a level of
interest and passion that will stimulate our residents to continue their life-
long professional development.  Our program aims to serve both the present and
future requirements of our patients, communities, and discipline.

## Selection process goals

Successful applicants to the Pediatric Neurology Program at the University of
Calgary will be those that demonstrate in the application and interviews a
keen interest in neurology and clinical neurosciences and their application to
the pediatric care setting.

In line with the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada CanMEDS
framework, applicants who have a strong academic record in both undergraduate
and/or graduate, and medical school, as well as those who can demonstrate
excellence in scholarship, advocacy, and leadership skills, will be considered
highly. Applicants are expected to have strong written and verbal
communication skills, be proficient at working in team settings, and display
continued and ongoing professionalism in all settings.

Individuals with a breadth of medical and non-medical experiences, who can
demonstrate resilience and maturity, and who are able to manage personal
health and wellness are considered strong applicants.

## File review process

Review team composition : The application review team consists of the Program
Director, faculty members and residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  
Most years 10 candidates are selected for interview.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Previous professional and academic experience.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Interest in clinical neuroscience, pediatrics, breadth of experiences.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Resilience, breadth of experiences.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership experience   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic record.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in Pediatric Neurology in Calgary. Written communication skills.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Qualities and assets expected of a good clinician in training.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest and experience in research.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic record.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  2024 interviews will be held on a virtual meeting platform  
  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Demonstrates ability to work in a team setting.   
Collegiality |  Excellent interpersonal skills.   
Communication skills |  Verbal and nonverbal communication skills.   
Health advocacy |  Recognizes role of advocacy in medicine.   
Interest in the discipline |  Interest in clinical neurosciences.   
Interest in the program |  Interest in Pediatric Neurology in Calgary.   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrates leadership abilities.   
Professionalism |  Demonstrates professional behaviors.   
Scholarly activities |  Demonstrates interest in academic endeavors.   
Other interview component(s) |  The interview day includes an unstructured meeting with the resident group to address questions which were traditionally discussed during the site tour and interview day meals. Interviewees will also be invited to attend an optional virtual social event.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Pediatric Neurology Residency training Program at the Alberta Children's
Hospital and the University of Calgary, offers a diverse and exciting
educational experience. We have a strong commitment to clinical care, teaching
and research.

The ratio of faculty to residents is better than 1:1.

Residents are exposed to a wide variety of neurological disorders, both common
and rare, through a combination of out-patient clinics and in-patient services
or consults (General Pediatrics Ward, Emergency Department, Neonatal Intensive
Care and Pediatric Intensive Care). While on service residents will be exposed
to several roles including that of a consultant neurologist for inpatients and
outpatients, as well as the primary care physician for patients admitted
directly under the Neurology service (this typically consists of 3-5
patients).

Residents on-service also manage our Urgent Clinic, which typically sees 2-3
patients per day, and serves to expedite Neurology referrals from the
Community of the Emergency Department.

A strong and vibrant collaborative relationship exists between many
disciplines with overlapping involvement in children and youth with
neurological disorders. These include; Neurosurgery, Physiatry, Metabolics,
Genetics, Neuroradiology, Developmental Pediatrics and General Pediatrics, to
name a few. We also have a very close relationship with the Adult Neurology
program, and the residents from both programs share part of their protected
academic half-day.

**Weekly Rounds.**  To facilitate academic enhancement residents have the
opportunity to participate and attend several weekly formal clinical and
research rounds. These include, but are not limited to; pediatric neurology,
city wide clinical neurosciences (combined
neurology/neurosurgery/neuropathology/neuroradiology) rounds,
EEG/neurophysiology seminars, seizure conferences, brain injury rounds, stroke
rounds, neuroradiology teaching seminars and developmental neuroscience grand
rounds.

**Resident Educational Longitudnal Clinic**. Senior Pediatric Neurology
residents (PGY3-PGY5) have their own longitudinal clinic designed to foster
independence and a sense of ownership for patient care.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

  
**Pediatric Neurology**

**CBD**

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called Competency by Design
(CBD), aims to enhance patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong
learning with evolving patient needs and empowering learners to more fully
engage in their education process.

CBD will use time as framework rather than the basis for progression. It is
not anticipated that the duration of training will change for the majority of
trainees. Residency programs will be broken down into stages and each stage
will have a series of milestones based on required competencies. These
milestones will create more targeted learning outcomes and involve more
frequent, formative assessments within the clinical workplace to ensure
residents are developing and receiving feedback on the skills they need.

**Curriculum**  

**Transition to Discipline** will occur in Pediatric Neurology rotations and
will prepare residents for success in residency.

**Foundations** will include approximately 18 months of pediatric rotations
including General Pediatric Inpatient Service (4 blocks), Neonatal Intensive
Care (1 block), Cardiology (1 block), Emergency Medicine (1 block), Neurology
(5 blocks), Medical Genetics (1 block), PICU (1 block), Mental Health (1
block), Infectious Disease (1 block), Research/Critical Appraisal (1 block)
and Pediatric Oncology (1 block).

Residents will then progress to **Core** rotations designed to provide a
graded experience. The trainee will complete six blocks in adult neurology,
and twelve blocks in clinical pediatric neurology in clinics, consultation,
inpatient and neurocritical care services and rotations in pediatric physical
medicine and rehabilitation, metabolics, pediatric palliative care,
neuropathology, pediatric neurosurgery, Electroencephalography (EEG),
Electromyography (EMG), and pediatric neuroradiology. The remaining blocks can
be spent in electives related to clinical rotations and/or research, or as
discussed with the Program Director and approved by the Residency Training
Committee (PNRTC). As they progress through the stage, residents develop their
team leadership skills through supervision of core junior Pediatric or Adult
Neurology residents as well as rotating pediatric residents on service. The
actual scheduling of rotations can be adjusted based on individual career
plans and goals after discussion with the Program Director and approval by the
PNRTC.

**Transition to Practice** will occur in the final year and will consist of
six blocks in pediatric neurology and six blocks in electives. Elective
choices include EEG-Epilepsy, Neuromuscular-EMG, Neuro-Ophthalmology,
Psychiatry, Movement Disorders, Headache, Stroke, Neuro-oncology, Research and
Metabolic Disorders.

In the PGY-3 through PGY-5 years residents develop their own longitudinal
clinic where independence and responsibility for patient care is emphasized.
Residents are assigned one faculty to supervise the resident clinic throughout
their senior years.

The trainee will be supported to attend one national or international
educational meeting in Pediatrics (American Academy, etc.) or Neurology
(American Academy, Canadian Neurological Congress, etc.) every year, starting
with PGY-1.

Electives at outside institutions (outside Calgary) are encouraged and must
meet Royal College standards for goals and objectives, and be approved by the
Director and the Committee in good time.

**Research**

The trainee is required to prepare a research proposal under the mentorship of
one or more neurologists during their Research Block in PGY-1 and submit it to
PNRTC. The resident may request additional research blocks during PGY3-5, in
discussion with their research supervisor and program director.

**Seminars and Rounds**

There are almost daily rounds of excellent educational value in our program.
The main rounds include the following:

Monday: Developmental Neuroscience Rounds - a mix of clinical and basic
science from local and guest speakers on all topics related to Pediatric
Neuroscience.

Tuesday: Pediatric Neuroradiology Case Rounds and Pedatric Neurology Clinical
Case Rounds - these rounds relate to clinical cases seen on the inpatient
services as well as cases seen in outpatient clinics. The focus of these
rounds is resident education and mastery of clinical evaluation.

Tuesday: Neurology Academic Half-day - a mixture of general neurology as well
as a newly developed curriculum specific to Pediatric Neurology.

Wednesday: General Pediatric Grand Rounds - a diverse set of educational
rounds from general pediatrics as well as most subspecialties.  

Wednesday: Weekly tutorial (1-2 hours) during Pediatric Neurology Rotation -
led by Pediatric Neurology Residents.

Friday: City-wide Neurosciences Grand Rounds - this two hour weekly session
features resident led case presentations from Neurology, Neurosurgery and
Physiatry followed by a formal lecture from invited speakers.

A multitude of Pediatric and Adult Neurology sub-specialty rounds are also
available each week and include those from the following programs; brain
injury, epilepsy, stroke, neuromuscular, multiple sclerosis, and
neuropathology.

* * *

# Training Sites

Alberta Children's Hospital

Alberta Children's Hospital Research Institute

Foothills Medical Centre

Peter Lougheed Centre

Rockyview General Hospital

South Health Campus

Electronic resources: Children's Hospital Library, Foothills Hospital Library,
clinic area and residents' room have computers on-line. All residents are also
part of the University of Calgary and have electronic access to databases
through the University.

* * *

# Additional Information

Quick Facts

We have 12 full-time Pediatric Neurologists with clinical and research
interests in pediatric epilepsy, headaches, brain injury, neurocritical care,
neuromuscular disease, neuropathology, neuroembryology, demyelination,
neuroinflammatory disorders, cerebrovascular disease and sleep.

Residents may do electives in other provinces as well as internationally, upon
approval.

In Pediatric Neurology, the resident attends 2 to 3 half-day clinics per week.
About 20 inpatient consultations per week are shared amongst the residents
(usually there are one to two other residents from pediatrics and/or adult
neurology). In Adult Neurology, there are clinic rotations and inpatient
rotations with variable numbers of consultations, but generally of higher
volume than the pediatric neurology rotations.

At this point, no mandatory rural rotations are required as part of this
training program. However, interested residents may have an opportunity to do
a rotation with a community Pediatric Neurologist to gain experience into this
important career path.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27062?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27062