#  McGill University - Diagnostic Radiology - Montreal

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Regular Stream for All  

##  Last approved on November 21, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 5

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Karl Muchantef  

Address Diagnostic Radiology  
Montreal General Hospital  
1650 Cedar Avenue, Room C5 118  
Montreal QC , Quebec, H3G 1A4  

Work  (514) 934-8084

Fax

Websites of Interest

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Cathy Torchia

Title: Senior Admin & Student Affairs Coordinator

Email: radiology.residency@muhc.mcgill.ca

  

Name: Endah Ndambi-Beninweck

Title: Administrative & Student Affairs Coordinator

Email: radiology.residency@muhc.mcgill.ca

Phone: 5149348084

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Casper Test - Required**



All applicants are required to complete the Casper Test (Altus Suite) to
assist with our selection process for the 2025 Application Cycle.

Casper is an online test that assesses non-cognitive skills and interpersonal
characteristics. To complete Casper visit
[TakeAltus.com](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Ftakealtus.com%2F&data=04%7C01%7Ccathy.torchia%40muhc.mcgill.ca%7Cce4e002de4d24b0e22da08d979fb15c5%7C06e1fe285f8b4075bf6cae24be1a7992%7C0%7C0%7C637674942778016867%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=oyaCiHZB5804d26re1Y2vPRKZQ9AGkIdV6N8iPlbPGo%3D&reserved=0)
to create an account. In implementing Casper, we are trying to further enhance
fairness and objectivity in our selection process.  



The Casper test comprises 12 sections of video and written scenarios.
Following each scenario, you will be required to answer a set of probing
questions under a time contract. The test typically takes between 75-90
minutes to complete. Each response is graded by a different rater, giving a
very robust and reliable view of personal and professional characteristics
important to our program. No studying is required for Casper, although you may
want to familiarize yourself with the test structure at
[TakeAltus.com](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Ftakealtus.com%2F&data=04%7C01%7Ccathy.torchia%40muhc.mcgill.ca%7Cce4e002de4d24b0e22da08d979fb15c5%7C06e1fe285f8b4075bf6cae24be1a7992%7C0%7C0%7C637674942778026828%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=sLdsk%2BjMEd8Ut9ZL4YP9sv8hrsPRy8LOkTF5bk1XF6U%3D&reserved=0),
and ensure you have a quiet environment to take the test. We strongly urge you
to take advantage of the 12-section practice test, which will not only immerse
you in the test environment but will also ensure you meet the technical
requirements to access and complete the test.



The test dates for postgraduate programs are (please check CaSPER webiste)
carry a cost to you of $100 (CAD). After your results are processed you will
be notified by CaRMS to log in so that CaRMS will assign your Casper score to
the programs you've applied to who request the test score. You will not
receive your own score.

Casper test results are valid for one admissions cycle. Applicants who have
already taken the test in previous years will therefore be expected to re-take
it. This is because your score is reported as a z-score within the group of
all other applicants of the same year.

Casper Test Dates - 2024



> September 26, 2024, at 8 pm EST (English)

> October 16, 2024, at 8 pm EST (English)

> November 5, 2024, at 8 pm EST (English and French)



French:

November 7, 2023, 8pm

_More information is available under Supporting Documentation > Additional
Documents (Required)_



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP must be submitted with each application.  
EITHER:

  * A copy of Canadian Birth Certificate or a copy of Certificate of Canadian Citizenship

OR

  * A copy of Permanent Resident Card (copy of both sides of the card) OR a copy of an IMM 5292, IMM 1000, IMM 5688;   
NB: the Permanent Resident card can be expired.

OR

  * A copy of Citizenship Card (copy of both sides of the card)

P.S: the passport is not an acceptable proof of citizenship.

Each year, all candidates applying in a CaRMS match must provide proof of
valid current citizenship or permanent resident status. As of the 2021 R-1
match cycle, CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate
the citizenship/legal status verification, which is usually completed by
Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) offices.

if an applicant has had their citizenship/legal status documentation verified
by any of the following organizations for the current R-1 match, the applicant
will not be required to assign a proof of citizenship/PR document (as pictured
in the screenshot below).

  * Medical Council of Canada ([MCC](https://mcc.ca/))
  * British Columbia's Clinical Assessment Program ([BC-CAP](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/clinical-assessment/))
  * Bureau de cooperation interuniversitaire ([BCI](https://www.bci-qc.ca/en/))
  * Alberta International Medical Graduate Program ([AIMG](https://www.aimg.ca/))

For further information, please check the following link on CaRMS:
[https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-
citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-)

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English      French

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the MCCQE Part I exam, please include the statement of
results and supplemental information report in your application.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the NAC exam, please include the statement of results and
supplemental information report in your application. The MCCQE Part II or
Certificate of Registration of the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada
(LMCC) is accepted in place of the NAC Examination.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required.  References will not be accepted
after CaRMS reference letter deadline.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  650

Maximum :  700

  

A personal letter (between 650-700 words) should include reasons for applying
to the Diagnostic Radiology training program at McGill University.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Required - used for memory aid

Additional required IMG documents

Lettre de reconnaissance de l'équivalence du diplôme MD

Please provide the results of the exams that permitted you to have your
medical degree recognized and approved by the CMQ.

Graduates with the diploma of doctor of osteopathy awarded by a school of
osteopathic medicine situated in the United States providing that the school
is accredited by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the
American Osteopathic Association do not have to obtain the recognition of the
equivalence of the medical diploma by the CMQ. These graduates do not require
the MCCQE Part I, the National Assessment Collaboration (NAC), or the
Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada (LMCC) in order to apply.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 29, 2025
  * January 30, 2025

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The Residency Selection Committee
will prescreen applications. Only candidates selected for interviews will be
notified by e-mail. Interview dates are January 29, 30, 2025  
  
All selected candidates will be interviewed by a panel of radiologists and
residents keyed to determine the candidate's understanding of diagnostic
imaging and motivation.  This will consist of one interview, 20 minutes in
length. The applicant should be prepared to be shown various imaging studies
during the interview. The purpose of this exercise is to determine the
candidate's visual abilities, and their understanding of basic concepts of
radiology expected at the medical student level.  
  
In addition, the candidate will be given a virtual tour of the department by a
senior or junior resident.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Our selection Committee is seeking motivated, energetic, dependable candidates
with excellent interpersonal skills. Candidates are selected based upon their
academic record, interview, personal letter, references and interest in
Radiology.  Interactions with the program in formal and informal settings may
be considered in the selection process

## Program goals

The Department of Diagnostic Radiology at McGill University is one of the
oldest departments in North America. Our residency training program has a
longstanding commitment to excellence in patient care, educational activities,
and resident research.

Residents benefit from a comprehensive and flexible curriculum that includes
weekly core teachings, Resident-led lecture series, special-topic Grand
Rounds, as well as opportunities to travel for training via programs such as
the American Institute for Radiologic Pathology (AIRP) in the U.S. Our
teaching program is robust; our staff consider resident teaching to be of
utmost importance with the goal of preparing our trainees for either academic
or community practice.

All residents are required to participate in at least one research project
during their residency. The aim of implementation of research as an integral
part of residency is the development of objectivity and critical appraisal in
reviewing the literature.  The experience achieved through writing protocols,
collection of data, and the final writing of the manuscript will give the
resident better insight about the new information in the radiology literature.

Our residents will demonstrate exceptional clinical and interpersonal skills.
This is achieved through both on and off site initiatives. The Department
regroups in 3 institutions, the McGill University Health Centers, the Jewish
General Hospital, and St. Mary's hospital with 57 faculty members and 25
fellows. This allows a wide breath of hands-on learning experiences for each
resident in varying environments with different staff members. We encourage a
healthy work-life balance and support resident participation in non-medical
pursuits. This includes faculty-wide luncheons, summer BBQs, WELL office
initiatives, and Resident-led extra-curricular activities.

## Selection process goals

The goal of our program is to educate the next generation of clinical
radiologists in tandem with the CanMEDS roles. Successful applicants will
demonstrate outstanding interpersonal skills, clinical skills, and research
experience in addition to academic potential to become exceptional
radiologists.

The Admissions Committee seeks candidates who have demonstrated an energetic
and enthusiastic willingness to learn and will therefore excel in the dynamic
hospital environments of our residency program. Strong academic achievement is
expected from all applicants. We seek to identify individuals who take an
enthusiastic approach to their work and who will interact effectively and
appropriately with patients and all hospital staff.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our Review Committee is comprised of the Program
Director, selected faculty members and residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Academic background, extra-curricular activities, electives, awards, publications   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  In training evaluations – particularly those emanating from radiology electives; positive interaction   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component" into the criteria field.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Sport/leisure activities, volunteering, organizations...   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Mentorship, leadership roles, teaching roles…   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Interpersonal skills, academic potential   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Motivation towards radiology   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interactions   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Quantity, quality, depth of involvement; interest in participating in future projects.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Level of academic performance   
Other file component(s) |  MCCQE 1   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Potential to enhance patient care through work teamwork   
Collegiality |  Interpersonal interactions with staff and residents   
Communication skills |  Clarity of thought and language   
Health advocacy |  Recognizes when investigation would be detrimental   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrates and explains motivation towards radiology   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrates knowledge of our residency and explains interest   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrates research, teaching, and administrative potential   
Professionalism |  Correspondence with staff and residents   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

PGY-1  
  

The first postgraduate year is a basic clincial training year (11 periods).
Residents rotate through general surgery, internal medicine, medical emrgency,
pediatric ward, surgical emergency, SICU, MICU, gastroenterology, neurology,
respirology. Blocks 12 and 13 are spent in Radiology as introductory months.

PGY-2 to 5  
  

Radiology for four years. Consists of a 9 period block in each of the adult
base hospitals (JGH, MGH or RVH), dedicated to basic rotations (chest, GI,
bone, GU, CT, US, angiography and neuroradiology).  Four periods of pediatrics
are done at the MCH: one introductory  period during the PGY-3 year (latter
half of year) and the remaining 3 periods are done during the PGY-4 year. A
four week course of radiologic pathology at the AIRP in Silver Springs,
Maryland, is a highly encouraged elective as well.

There is a very active Visiting Professors' Program. Three to four renowned
radiologists per year are invited to lecture to our residents and staff. This
consists of two days of teaching sessions and lectures during which time
residents are excused from their clinical responsibilities.

  
  

Research  
  

One research project is required to be completed by end of PGY-4 year.
Residents are required to present their project at our annual Research Day.

  
  

Seminars  
  

Daily viewbox conferences held (two sessions per day in some hospitals), core
curriculum teaching weekly, and  visiting professor.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

-Royal Victoria Hospital

-Jewish General Hospital

-Montreal General Hospital

-Montreal Children's Hospital

-Montreal Neurological Institute

-St. Mary's Hospital

 -Lachine General Hospital

* * *

# Additional Information

**RE CASPer Test = Required  **

**Casper Test  \- admissions assessments of non-cognitive skills**

All applicants applying to the Diagnostic Radiology residency program at
McGill University  are required to complete the Casper Test (Altus Suite), to
assist with our selection process for the 2022 Application Cycle.

**How to Complete Casper**  

In order to take the Casper Test, you will be responsible for securing access
to a laptop or desktop computer with webcam and audio capabilities. You will
require the following for both account creation and completing Casper:  

  * Government-issued photo ID
  * Valid email address (the same one you will use to submit your application)
  * Working webcam
  * Working microphone
  * Reliable high-speed internet connection

  

Please go to[
www.TakeAltus.com](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Ftakealtus.com%2F&data=04%7C01%7Ccathy.torchia%40muhc.mcgill.ca%7Cce4e002de4d24b0e22da08d979fb15c5%7C06e1fe285f8b4075bf6cae24be1a7992%7C0%7C0%7C637674942778026828%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=sLdsk%2BjMEd8Ut9ZL4YP9sv8hrsPRy8LOkTF5bk1XF6U%3D&reserved=0)
to sign up for Altus Suite for Canadian Postgraduate Medical Education
(**CSP-20201 –  Canadian Postgraduate Medical Education) **after selecting
Canada as the country which the school you are applying to resides in.

  1. Register using your CaRMS ID and a piece of government-issued photo ID.  
  2. Select a Casper test date. You will be provided with a limited number of testing dates and times. Please note that these are the only testing dates available for your Casper test. There will be no additional tests scheduled. Please use an email address that you check regularly and that you have used for your application; there may be updates to the test schedule. 
  3. Important: To account for identity verification and payment processing timeline, ensure that you register for your test at least 3 days before your preferred test date and time. Last-minute bookings are not recommended. 
  4. Ensure you have**  selected CaRMS for distribution before the posted Distribution Deadline.** Likely, there will be no additional tests scheduled, but the most up to date information can be found by browsing the [Test Dates and Times](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Ftakealtus.com%2Fdates-times%2F&data=04%7C01%7Ccathy.torchia%40muhc.mcgill.ca%7Cce4e002de4d24b0e22da08d979fb15c5%7C06e1fe285f8b4075bf6cae24be1a7992%7C0%7C0%7C637674942778036788%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=QTVflx6uA0%2BEzyFqBHOZYxvmYHV816cqh1mS3eztL1M%3D&reserved=0)  on [TakeAltus.com](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Ftakealtus.com%2F&data=04%7C01%7Ccathy.torchia%40muhc.mcgill.ca%7Cce4e002de4d24b0e22da08d979fb15c5%7C06e1fe285f8b4075bf6cae24be1a7992%7C0%7C0%7C637674942778036788%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=3ofFMSGXaLeVtKwhcaUjk4z5hsBbybE5RXFREMeeo8w%3D&reserved=0). 
  5. Please direct any inquiries on Altus Suite to support@altus.as. Alternatively, you may use the chat bubble in the bottom right hand corner of your screen on the TakeAltus.com website. 



**Accommodations:**  If you require testing accommodations for the Casper Test
you will need to submit the [Accommodations Request
Form](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Ftakealtus.com%2Fwp-
content%2Fuploads%2F2019%2F10%2FCASPer-Test-Accommodations-Request-Form-
English.pdf&data=04%7C01%7Ccathy.torchia%40muhc.mcgill.ca%7Cce4e002de4d24b0e22da08d979fb15c5%7C06e1fe285f8b4075bf6cae24be1a7992%7C0%7C0%7C637674942778036788%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=cmLPnGwWbi8%2F7ndu8d8TePO4kK8TJiAQEEgBGaabPho%3D&reserved=0)
signed by you and your qualified professional 3 weeks in advance of your
desired test date. More information regarding accommodations can be found
[here.](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Ftakealtus.com%2Ffaq%2F%23accommodations&data=04%7C01%7Ccathy.torchia%40muhc.mcgill.ca%7Cce4e002de4d24b0e22da08d979fb15c5%7C06e1fe285f8b4075bf6cae24be1a7992%7C0%7C0%7C637674942778046734%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=fkg9fm3G4JHy4eqk21KjCZj3cyPceReRanlaxeiFBJo%3D&reserved=0)

  

**More About  Casper**

The Casper test comprises 12 sections of video and written scenarios.
Following each scenario, you will be required to answer a set of probing
questions under a time contract. The test typically takes between 75-90
minutes to complete. Each response is graded by a different rater, giving a
very robust and reliable view of personal and professional characteristics
important to our program. No studying is required for Casper, although you may
want to familiarize yourself with the test structure at
[TakeAltus.com](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Ftakealtus.com%2F&data=04%7C01%7Ccathy.torchia%40muhc.mcgill.ca%7Cce4e002de4d24b0e22da08d979fb15c5%7C06e1fe285f8b4075bf6cae24be1a7992%7C0%7C0%7C637674942778046734%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=CdISED8dfPospUjF276noW06oMB1LJyTRQLSPjwzIfA%3D&reserved=0),
and ensure you have a quiet environment to take the test. We strongly urge you
to take advantage of the 12-section practice test, which will not only immerse
you in the test environment but will also ensure you meet the technical
requirements to access and complete the test.



Casper test results are valid for one admissions cycle. Applicants who have
already taken the test in previous years will therefore be expected to re-take
it.





* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27320?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27320