#  University of British Columbia - Family Medicine - Coastal  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 08, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Joshua Greggain  

Address Faculty of Medicine – Department of Family Practice  
300-5950 University Boulevard  
Vancouver, British Columbia, V6T 1Z3  

Websites of Interest [ UBC CaRMS Website ](http://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Jana Ogdenova

Title: Program Co-manager

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Kelly Jacobs

Title: Program Co-manager

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Cindy Choi

Title: Education Coordinator

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Tamar Haytayan

Title: Site Coordinator

Email: tamar.haytayan@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Dr. Dean Brown

Title: Site Director

Email: dvbrown@shaw.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Prospective residents should refer to the [Family Medicine Residency
Selection](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/) website for ongoing updates,
deadlines and detailed information.  
  

In order to apply for a residency position in the CaRMS match, International
Medical Graduates (IMG’s) must be selected through the [UBC Clinical
Assessment Program (CAP)](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/resource/clinical-
assessment/). The [IMG BC website](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/) provides key
information regarding this process.

IMG residents matched into a UBC program are required to attend a [mandatory
multi-day orientation](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/path-to-
residency/orientation/) prior to the start of their residency.

####  

FMProC: Important timelines

For the 2025 residency selection cycle ALL FM residency programs in Canada
require applicants to sit FMProC for those applying in both rounds of CaRMS.



FMProC test window for CaRMS first Iteration is from **October 28 (8AM ET) to
November 11, 2024 (10AM ET).  **

Registration opens from **September 11 (12 noon ET) and closes on November 07,
2024 (10AM ET).  **

** **

To register and find out more about the test please go to**
****[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/)**. All test related updates will
be posted on the website.

Requests to register or to sit the test outside of the posted deadlines will
not be considered.



**Upon completion of FMProC,  you must upload** your FMProC result letter to
CaRMS for your application to be considered complete.

** **

* * *

# Return of Service

The IMG stream is subject to a Return of Service (ROS). Successfully matched
applicants are required to sign a contract with the Ministry of Health as a
condition of accepting a medical residency position. Templates of the ROS
contract and allocation details can be reviewed on the MOH ROS website here:
[International Medical Graduates -
BC](https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/health/practitioner-professional-
resources/physician-compensation/return-service-programs/pgme-img-program "
International Medical Graduates - BC")

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Resident selection for the UBC Family Medicine program is a collaborative
process between all of our sites. Logistics and administration of resident
selection is managed by our central program office in Vancouver, located at
the UBC Point Grey Campus.

As the UBC Family Medicine Program is distributed into 23 unique sites and
locations, candidates should apply to each site they are interested in.  
Applicants must submit same application package to all sites to which they
apply.  

Regardless of the number of sites applicants apply to and rank, **only one
interview will be conducted**.

A variety of virtual information sessions will be held to provide prospective
residents with the opportunity to learn more about the programs and discuss
the training experience with faculty and current residents. Please visit
[Program Events](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/interviews-and-program-
events/) for upcoming events.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**IMG applicants:**

IMG applicants need not provide evidence of English language testing if the
primary language of medical education or patient care was in English. If the
primary language of medical education or patient care was NOT in English then
applicants must fulfill the English language proficiency requirements by the
start of Ranking Period.



See CPSBC English Language Proficiency Requirements here for more information:
<https://www.cpsbc.ca/files/pdf/REG-ELP.pdf>

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

MCCQE Part 1 Exam Information: <https://mcc.ca/examinations/mccqe-part-i/>

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).



NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required.

  * Regardless of reference source, reference letters should speak to an interest in Family Medicine and aptitude for the discipline.
  * Using anecdotal narrative if possible, letters should provide evidence of attributes and abilities well suited for a career in Family Medicine.
  * These attributes and abilities are also evaluated in our interview process (see interview criteria and components).

Note: Traditional narrative letters will **NOT**** ** be accepted.  
Please note that should your reference submit a traditional letter it will not
be reviewed and your application may be deemed incomplete.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

_Provide a biographical letter (max. 750 words) that includes answers to the
following questions:_

_1.__        What life skills or lived experience do you have that demonstrate
your suitability for family medicine residency training?_

_2.__        Why would a career in Family Medicine be a good fit for you?_

_3.__        Why UBC? Why British Columbia? Please elaborate with specific
examples of any connections you might have with the province of B.C., like
community connections, education, work experience, etc. _

_4.__        What clinical experience have you had in Canada?_

_5.__        What experience do you have in community-based family medicine?_

_ _

_**Note:   The same letter must be submitted with each site application.**_

Custom Résumé / CV

IMG-BC Clinical Assessment Program

The UBC Clinical Assessment Program (CAP) Letter is provided to CaRMS by UBC
IMG Office.



* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 18, 2025
  * January 19, 2025
  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025
  * January 25, 2025
  * January 26, 2025
  * January 27, 2025
  * January 28, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: 2025 R-1 match interviews will continue to
be in a virtual format.  
  
The national interview period is January 18- February 09, 2025.  
**UBC interviews** will take place between the dates of **January 18-28, 2025.
**  
  
Please note that candidates will be interviewed once, regardless of number of
training sites you apply to.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All interviews will be conducted in a
live, synchronous MMI format. The UBC Family Medicine (FM) program will
contact the selected applicants by email to provide program-specific interview
details and interview links.  
  
If you wish to add a new program/site to your rank list after your interview,
you must update your CaRMS application by our **Program deadline, January 29,
2025**. This date will be posted here as soon as it is determined.  
  
Any additional sites added to your application after this date will not be
considered for ranking.  
  
  
**Important** : you must also link your documents to any newly ranked site.  
  
Regardless of the number of sites to which you apply, one final score will be
generated after the interview.  
If you are matched, the program will be unable to facilitate transfer from one
site to another.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Applicants must submit an application to each site they are interested in and
should assign the same set of documents to each site. Selection is based on
file review and one set of MMI interviews. Each file is reviewed and given a
score. This file review score determines whether a candidate is offered an
interview. The file review score is then combined with the interview score and
FMProC score to create a total score for each applicant. **The file review
score will contribute to 50%, interview score will contribute to 45%, and
FMProC score will contribute to 5% of the overall global score.** This total
score informs the creation of a rank list which is submitted to each site for
consideration. Some sites will use this as the final rank list while some
sites will apply their own adjustments to this list based on local site
selection committee input.

** **

## Program goals

  1. To graduate residents who have developed the competencies needed to begin independent family practice in diverse community settings.
  2. To deliver an effective academic, clinical and scholarly educational program.
  3. To graduate residents who are inspired, resilient, and balanced.
  4. To graduate residents who demonstrate evidence-based and reflective practice.
  5. To provide working and learning environments that ensure residents, faculty and staff feel respected and supported.

## Selection process goals

  1. Identify individuals with an aptitude for family medicine who are most likely to thrive in our diverse residency sites and in the unique context of British Columbia communities.
  2. Identify individuals with a demonstrated solid foundation of clinical skills and clinical approach which equips them for Postgraduate Education training.
  3. Identify individuals who have consistent professional behavior; who interact appropriately with patients, colleagues and staff.
  4. Identify mature, motivated individuals with a broad range of life experience which they can draw upon to adapt to the demands of residency training.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is composed of faculty leadership
from across our distributed program, the program director and senior
administration.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 201 - 400  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Clinical experiences gained through electives are considered   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership skills are considered in the context of the personal letters and reference letters   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Taken into consideration only if professionalism issues are identified   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstrated suitability to Family Medicine and training in BC through experience and life skills   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Demonstrated suitability through attributes, abilities and interest in the discipline   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
Other file component(s) |  1\. Graduation Year  
2\. BC Clinical Assessment Program Quartile Rank  
3\. MCQQE Part I  
  
Note: A CV, the MSPR and transcripts are required supporting documents by
CaRMS but are not scored as part of the UBC Family Practice file review
process.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Clinical experiences gained through electives are
considered

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Yes: with patients and colleagues   
Collegiality |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Communication skills |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Health advocacy |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Interest in the discipline |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Interest in the program |  Yes: UBC in general, and in specific programs (rural, under-served populations, inner-city context etc.)   
Leadership skills |  Yes: assessment of leadership of self and others   
Professionalism |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Other interview component(s) |  Ability to handle Ambiguity/Uncertainty  
Advocacy/Compassion  
Resilience  
Patient centeredness  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  • File does not support interest in family medicine  
• Interview suggests lack of non-cognitive family medicine skills  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

### **Uniquely B.C:  UBC Family Medicine**

[Family Medicine training in BC](https://postgrad.familypractice.ubc.ca/)
presents you with many unique opportunities. We are a fully accredited
distributed program with 23 training sites and multiple training communities.
In an effort to meet the evolving needs of our society, each site provides a
solid foundation in the knowledge and clinical skills of Family Medicine so
that our graduates are prepared to practice in a variety of settings. While
our program offers diversity of training, it is based on [common goals,
learning objectives, and assessment
standards](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/program-info/).

All residents are required to do a [mandatory 2-month rural
rotation](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/resident-resources/rural-
rotation/) in Family Medicine in their second year. Residents in the Coastal,
or rural programs in the Okanagan or the North complete longer rural
placements. Residents can also apply to participate in Enhanced Rural training
for a total of 4-6 months in rural communities.

There is extensive [academic and administrative
support](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/about/program-matrix/) for the
entire residency program. Our central program administrative team is based in
Vancouver on UBC campus. At the site level, leadership teams are made up of a
Site Director, Site Faculty, Lead Residents and administrators. Lead Program
Faculty provide provincial education support in the areas of curriculum,
assessment, faculty development, scholarship and behavioral medicine.

The Family Practice Postgraduate Education Committee has representation from
all sites to ensure a connected, distributed program that fully meets
accreditation standards. Residents are represented at all levels of
governance.

A wide range of amazing recreational and cultural opportunities are at your
doorstep, as well as a collegial community of residents and physicians with
whom you can learn, grow, and play. We want your experience to be in BC to be
a positive and enjoyable one.

### **Training Sites: Overview**

Visit the [UBC Family Medicine Postgraduate website
](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/)for a detailed overview of each of the 23
sites and their surrounding communities.  Each site provides opportunities to
experience Family Medicine in their unique context, offering special
opportunities to gain experience and skills unique to the area where you are
training.

The following is a list of our sites and their base community/hospital. Each
site serves the surrounding community (see [training
sites](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/training-sites/interactive-map/) for
full details):



**Greater Vancouver / Lower Mainland**

  * Abbotsford-Mission
  * Coastal (North Vancouver, Lion’s Gate Hospital)
  * Chilliwack
  * Indigenous (Greater Vancouver and rural Indigenous communities)
  * St. Paul's (Downtown Vancouver, Inner City)
  * Surrey South Fraser (Surrey Memorial Hospital)
  * Vancouver Fraser (New Westminster, Royal Columbian)



**Interior Region**

  * Kootenay Boundary (Trail, Nelson, Rossland, Castlegar)
  * Kelowna Rural (Kelowna R1 year; rural communities across BC in R2 year)
  * Kelowna Regional
  * North Okanagan (Vernon)
  * Okanagan South (Penticton)
  * Kamloops



**Vancouver Island**

  * Indigenous (Victoria, Ladysmith and rural Indigenous communities including Pacheedaht, Penelakut, ‘Namgis)
  * Quw'utsun (Duncan)
  * Nanaimo 
  * Strathcona (Comox, Campbell River and Courtenay)
  * Victoria



**Northern**

  * Fort St. John (Northeast)
  * Northern Rural (Prince George R1 year; rural communities across BC in R2 year)
  * Prince George
  * Rural Immersion (Hazelton, Smithers, Vanderhoof, Mackenzie, Valemount/McBride, Chetwynd/Tumbler Ridge)
  * Terrace (Rural Northwest)



**IMG positions are offered at the following sites:**

  * Abbotsford-Mission
  * Chilliwack
  * Coastal
  * Fort St. John
  * Kamloops
  * Kootenay Boundary
  * Nanaimo
  * North Okanagan
  * Okanagan South
  * Kelowna Rural
  * Kelowna Regional
  * Prince George
  * Strathcona
  * St. Paul’s
  * Surrey South Fraser
  * Vancouver Fraser
  * Victoria

### **Resident Support**

Resident resilience and wellness is our top priority. Important
[resources](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/resident-resources/resident-
wellness-and-safety/) have been developed by our program to support our
residents throughout the course of the training.

All UBC programs are allocated a fixed amount of funding per resident for
Resident Activities.  This funding is used to provide educational support to
residents during their 2 years of training. This includes funding for
residents to attend program-wide courses and events. Additionally, residents
may identify conferences and educational materials that would supplement their
training experience. A discretionary, per resident funding will also be
allocated to the sites for a similar purpose at the site level.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Coastal Family Practice Residency site evolved in a unique manner, with
high aspirations.  A group of physicians from the North Shore, Pemberton,
Whistler, Squamish, Sunshine Coast, Powell River, and 'the Bella’s' planned
this FP Residency, to develop exceptional clinical skills for rural, remote
and urban environments, across a full spectrum of clinical care settings.

**Purpose/Objectives**

The Coastal site has been developed for Residents who are excited about
becoming leaders in Family Practice.  The site focuses on strong clinical
skills and exposure to all aspects of Family Practice.  This is a “rurally
strong” program with excellent urban exposure, so our Residents work across
the full range of Family Practice settings. They also gain awareness of
'social determinants of health' in different communities.

The first year, spent entirely on the North Shore, starts with a common time
together (2 weeks of Orientation at the start of residency), to learn
fundamentals and create a support network.  Second year includes a 4-month
rotation in a rural Coastal community, plus 10 weeks of Electives, which can
be tailored to suit individual interests. We create a strong academic learning
environment, enabling Residents to gain skills and knowledge for success in
all aspects of Family Practice. Our residents also develop strong
collaborative relationships, supporting one another as learners, friends, and
colleagues over the two years and beyond.



**PGY 1 Overview**

First year, on the North Shore, encompasses a wide range of urban Family
Practice settings, along with acute care experience at Lions Gate Hospital
(LGH). The new HOpe Center, situated beside LGH, provides teaching rooms, a
simulation centre, library, call rooms, and a great deal more, to support
resident learning needs.



**PGY 2 Overview**

In second year, Residents spend part of the year on the North Shore, 10 weeks
in electives, and four months in a rural community, making our program
“rurally strong”, and creating an excellent opportunity to work, learn and
live in a rural environment. Each community offers a broad range of clinical
experience with committed practitioners.

**Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location / Notes**  
---|---|---  
Family Practice  |  40 weeks |  Including 16 weeks of Rural Including 2 weeks at Health Connection Clinic – a clinic with a complex population to better address social determinants.  
Emergency  |  8 weeks |     
Obstetrics/Gynecology  |  6 weeks |     
Pediatrics  |  6 weeks |   2 weeks Pediatrics at LGH in R1 4 weeks Pediatrics Outpatient in R2  
Internal Medicine + Hospitalist |  10 weeks |   6 weeks of Internal Medicine 4 weeks of Hospitalist  
Surgery  |  6 weeks |   2 weeks of General Surgery at LGH 4 weeks of Surgery Selective (2 choices for 2 weeks each: Orthopedics, ENT, Plastics, Radiology, Urology)  
Mental Health/Psychiatry |  4 weeks |     
Palliative Care |  4 weeks |     
Electives |  12 weeks |   Includes 2 weeks of Medicine Selective (choice of ID, Cardiology, GI & Geri)  
  


**Academic Days and Research**

Residents attend mandatory academic activities – usually a half day per week
on Thursday mornings. This includes academic teaching which is a mix of
clinical case discussions and core topics. Residents are also expected to do
presentations. Throughout the program, we stress "Evidence-Based Medicine" in
both academic and clinical areas.

Once a year, in June, residents from St Paul’s and Coastal get together for a
Scholarship Day.

In the first year, residents will be expected to complete a quality
improvement project. Throughout the two years, residents must complete a
scholar project and present their work at Scholarship Day.



**International Electives**

Residents can do one month of interprovincial or international electives
during their training.



**Further Training**

Third year training positions are available in the area of Emergency Medicine,
Care of The Elderly, Anesthesia, Palliative Medicine, Sports and Exercise
Medicine, Clinician Scholars program and a wide range of other category 2
Enhanced Skills programs.

* * *

# Training Sites

**North Shore:** The North Shore, where the main training hospital is located,
is 20 minutes from Vancouver. It boasts three local ski mountains,
internationally acclaimed mountain biking trails, hiking, sailing, many local
beaches and a vibrant urban core. Lions Gate Hospital has 238 acute care beds,
serves the North Shore, and provides specialty services for all of Coastal
(North Shore, Sea to Sky corridor, Sunshine Coast, Powell River, and the
Central Coast).  A recognized trauma centre, one of 5 BC Neuro surgery
centres, it has a large orthopedic trauma service. LGH provides full
maternity, pediatric, medicine, critical care, surgical and emergency
services.  It has one of the most advanced MRI’s in Canada, and is the 4th
busiest hospital in the Lower Mainland. Family Practitioners are a strong
presence, as Attending Physicians, and also as Hospitalists. In the community,
there are many group and individual Family Practice offices providing both
full-service care, and focused practices.

** **

**Pemberton:** Pemberton is a strong and vibrant community, located 30 minutes
North of Whistler, and 2.5 hours from Vancouver. There are many outdoor
recreational opportunities, including mountain biking, hiking, river rafting,
etc, plus many Provincial Parks, and hot springs to visit. The Pemberton
Health Care Centre services a large geographic area at the north end of the
Sea to Sky corridor, including Pemberton, Mount Currie, D’Arcy and the In-
SHUCK-ch communities down the Lillooet Lake Road. The Centre provides 24/7
emergency care, palliative care, diagnostic imaging and laboratory services.
A group (shared) Family Practice is co-located on site. All care is provided
by a small group of physicians and a team of very skilled nurses. The ER sees
all types of injuries and illnesses, maternity care, critical care, etc.
Approximately 45% of the patients are First Nations. One GP visits remote
First Nations communities weekly by helicopter.  There are initiatives
providing telehealth support to these communities.



**Squamish:** Celebrated as "The Outdoor Recreational Capital of Canada",
Squamish has an active population with an average age of 36, and a large
proportion under age 10.  Squamish is situated half way between Whistler and
Vancouver, an enjoyable 45 minute drive either way.  Squamish General Hospital
is a 22 bed acute care facility with a 9 stretcher Emergency Room. Hospital
services include general medicine, surgery, obstetrics, psychiatry, palliative
care, physiotherapy, pharmacy, diagnostic imaging, laboratory, ambulatory
care, chemotherapy and dialysis.  Family Practitioners provide a variety of
services including GP anesthesia, inpatient care, and maternity care, with
support from a general surgeon and visiting specialists. Squamish General
Hospital is the community hospital for the Sea to Sky corridor including Mount
Currie and the First Nations communities along Lillooet Lake.  



**Gibsons/Sechelt:  ** The Sunshine Coast runs approximately 180 kilometres
from Langdale to Lund, with many beautiful small communities along the way,
including Gibsons and Sechelt. The Sunshine Coast, a short 40 minute ferry
ride from West Vancouver’s Horseshoe Bay, is home to the highest per capita
population of artists, artisans and crafters in Canada. It boasts spectacular
hiking, kayaking, diving, beach combing, and a myriad of other outdoor
pursuits.  St. Mary’s Hospital, a 42 bed acute care facility serving over 100
km of the Sunshine Coast, is located in Sechelt, and serves a number of
communities along the coast. This facility was recently renovated and expanded
with new acute care patient rooms, ER department, diagnostic imaging and a new
special care unit for high acuity patients. There is a newly renovated
ambulatory care area. Family Practitioners are an integral part of St. Mary’s,
providing ER and inpatient care. While there are several consulting
specialties available, including General Medicine, General Surgery, Psychiatry
and Obstetrics, the Family Physician is always the primary physician.



**Powell River:** Powell River is located on the Northern Sunshine Coast at
the gateway to Desolation Sound, has outstanding mountain biking, kayaking and
hiking and is a destination for tourists from around the world because of its
natural beauty, music and facilities. Powell River General Hospital is a
modern self-sufficient 33 bed facility supporting many services including
oncology, dialysis, cast clinic, endoscopy full time GP anesthesia, medicine,
surgery, and OB Gyn coverage. Family physicians practice full service
medicine, and are the primary physicians for medical and obstetrical patients.
Residents provide in-patient care, palliative care, extended care and nursing
homes, and gain experience in sports medicine, geriatrics, and chronic disease
management. The ER is moderately busy and a great venue to become increasingly
comfortable with emergency care. There is excellent GP, specialist and
anesthesia back up. Residents will be exposed to truly 'full service' family
medicine in a friendly community where accommodation is readily available.



**Bella Bella and Bella Coola:** These small remote central coast communities
are largely Indigenous (90-95%) and offer exceptional primary care learning.

* * *

# Additional Information

There are many opportunities for clinical skill development. Some examples:

  * Regular Simulation sessions at Lions Gate Hospital’s Simulation Centre
  * Comprehensive U/S training
  * Extensive rural practice experience
  * Varied Family Practice office setting exposure, from private office to group settings
  * Obstetrics experience - full spectrum from prenatal visits, labour, delivery (including c-sections) and post partum care
  * Health Connection - a 'high needs' clinic providing team-based primary care to people with complex clinical and social needs
  * Surgical rotations, with surgeons and specialists keen to support the development of core skills in Family Practice Residents, including anaesthesia and airway management
  * Mental health and addictions experience.
  * Internal Medicine, Hospitalist and Critical care
  * Exposure and training in First Nations/Aboriginal Health
  * A strong commitment to academic development, with academic and clinical leaders providing content delivery and interactive sessions

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26601?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26601