#  Queen’s University - Emergency Medicine - Kingston  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on February 19, 2025

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 5

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Erin Brennan  

Address Emergency Medicine  
Queen's U - Kingston Health Sciences Centre  
76 Stuart Street  
Kingston, Ontario, K7L 2V7  

Work  (613) 549-6666, ext.7660

Fax  (613) 548-1374, Attn: Dr. Erin Brennan

Websites of Interest [ Department of Emergency Medicine
](https://emergencymed.queensu.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Erin Brennan

Title: Program Director

Email: 6eeb@queensu.ca

  

Name: Dr. Chris Evans

Title: Assistant Program Director

Email: c.evans@queensu.ca

  

Name: Mary Lee

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: mary.lee@kingstonhsc.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please refer to the Queen’s Emergency Medicine website
<https://emergencymed.queensu.ca/academics/frcpc-residency-program> and social
media, Instagram @queensemresidents and Twitter @qemerg for complete and
current information about our program.

We recognize that securing an elective at Queen’s is not possible for everyone
and encourage you to attend our virtual information sessions or reach out to
our residents at queenselectives@gmail.com

COVID-19 vaccination requirements:

Please refer to the 'Restrictions' section of the [Ontario eligibility
criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/) for messaging regarding COVID-19 vaccination requirements.

**EDIIA Institutional Statement**

The goal of resident selection is to identify trainees likely to succeed both
in training and, once out in practice, in meeting the health care needs of
patients and Canadian society.  We know that having a physician workforce that
reflects the demographics of the patients that they serve improves health care
outcomes.  There are many populations within Canada under-represented in
medicine (UIM) with a paucity of health care practitioners who are Black,
Indigenous, Persons of Colour, 2SLGBTQ+, from lower socioeconomic backgrounds
and/or with disabilities, and other under-represented in medicine (UIM)
groups. Diversity within training programs has also been shown to improve
training environments.  Queen’s University PGME is strongly committed to
diversity and inclusion within its community for these reasons as well as
being part of the solution to address historic and contemporary inequities.

**Equity and diversity**

We welcome diversity among our trainees and seek to foster an environment that
is welcoming to all, regardless of gender identity, race, religion, or sexual
orientation.

We are committed to advancing equitable and inclusive practices.  Please refer
to the [PGME website](https://meds.queensu.ca/academics/postgraduate/faculty-
staff/applicant-selection) for additional information / resources including
[QHS EDIIA Initiatives](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi) and [EDIIA
statements](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi/accessibility-
statements) (Indigenous Land Acknowledgement, Anti-Discrimination Statement,
Inclusion Statement, and Statement on Social Accountability)

**Gaps in Training, Remediation, or Professionalism issues**

Please address any gaps in training, remediation, or professionalism issues in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count.

* * *

# Return of Service

If you have a ROS agreement in another province please ensure you aware of the
commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Thank you for your interest in the RCPSC Emergency Medicine training program
at Queen’s University in Kingston, Ontario.  Our program is looking for
residents who have a dedication to becoming excellent emergency physicians,
who can offer a unique contribution to our supportive EM community, and who
will advocate for the needs of patients from all walks of life.  Our faculty
is dedicated to supporting residents through their training as they become the
EM specialists of the future.

Our training hospitals serve Kingston and the surrounding area, with a
catchment volume of approximately 500,000.

Our program is accredited by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Canada.



Please note that due to the volume of applications our program receives we are
not able to provide individual feedback to applicants who are not successful
in the match.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Reference documents

Required

Emergency Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Emergency Medicine structured reference letter

Number requested: three (3)

Three structured reference letters are required and must be completed by staff
physicians.  Letters from fellows or residents will not be accepted.

Having letters from Emergency Physicians is helpful, but not required.  At
least two of the letters should be from physicians who have worked with you
clinically.  You have the option of submitting one letter from a physician who
has only worked with you in a research or leadership capacity.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Custom Résumé / CV

A complete curriculum vitae including all education, employment, academic and
extracurricular activities is required.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Your personal letter is an opportunity to tell us about yourself and explain
your interest in a career in emergency medicine.  There are many paths to
choosing EM and we want to read about yours!

 Your letter should outline:

  * Reasons for choosing the RCPSC EM training program
  * What experiences you have had that have helped foster your interest in EM
  * Reasons for applying to the Queen’s EM program
  * How your unique skill set and experiences will contribute to EM and our residency program
  * Any other information you consider relevant

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Documents that are not in English must be accompanied by a notarized
translation. Students applying in the last year of medical school will need to
submit their most recent marks/transcripts, and will need to provide proof of
their MD to CPSO prior to the start of residency training.

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

Self-identification questionnaire

CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire:



The Emergency Medicine program at Queen's University recognizes the systemic
barriers and biases that continue to affect underrepresented communities in
medicine.  The Faculty of Health Sciences at Queen's University has launched a
Dean's Action Table on EDI to start to address some of the ongoing inequities,
more information about the broader initiatives can be found at
https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi.

Within the Department of Emergency Medicine we are committed to ensuring a
fair and equitable application process and recognize the impact coming from an
underrepresented community can have on a candidate's application.  The members
of our selection committee participate in a yearly implicit bias education and
training prior to file review.  We will be providing candidates the **option
**of submitting a CaRMS Self Identification Questionnaire
(https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/sections/4415269789709-CaRMS-Self-
Identificatio-Questionnaire).  We recognize that the decision to include this
questionnaire in a candidate's application package is a personal one, and we
will in no way disadvantage candidates who choose, or choose not to, self-
identify.  Questionnaires will be considered after the initial file review
process as we strive towards diverse representation in Emergency Medicine and
ensuring that the physicians reflect the demographic composition of Canadian
society.  Following the interview invitations the CSIQ will no longer impact
the selection process and the documents will be securely disposed of.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Each applicant's file (as outlined in "Supporting Documentation") will be
reviewed and scored by a subset of the Selection Committee (1-2 residents, 1-2
faculty and the Program Director using a standardized evaluation tool.

The evaluation tool is used to evaluate personal attributes and skills
compatible with a career in Emergency Medicine, including:

  * Strong interpersonal skills
  * Ability to self-reflect and incorporate feedback
  * Maturity, leadership, and motivation
  * Demonstrated interest in the specialty (including but not limited to: electives, leadership, research)
  * Creativity in life adjustments and achievement of educational goals
  * Ability to contribute in a unique way to our program

Prior clinical exposure in Emergency Medicine is important and applicants are
encouraged to complete at least one elective in the specialty.  Desirable
candidates will have the background or traits that showcase their potential to
become future leaders, educators, researchers, or administrators in Emergency
Medicine.

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: **The Interview Day is Wednesday, January
29, 2025**  
  
All applicants will be contacted before December 20, 2024, to advise whether
they have been selected for an interview.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews (conducted virtually) will
be offered to a limited number of applicants based on results of the file
review. Applicants selected for interviews will be contacted before December
20, 2024. Only applicants who are interviewed will be ranked. Interview dates
are coordinated with other Emergency Medicine programs across Canada.  
  
Candidates will participate in two interviews, each 12 minutes in duration.
Each interview team will consist of 1-2 faculty and 1-2 residents.  Interviews
will involve standardized questions and each interviewer will score the
candidate independently.  Each reviewer will rate each applicant based on
personal attributes and skills compatible with a career in Emergency Medicine,
including:  
  

  * Strong interpersonal skills
  * Ability to self-reflect and incorporate feedback
  * Maturity, leadership, and motivation
  * Demonstrated interest in the specialty (including but not limited to: electives, leadership, research)
  * Creativity in life adjustments and achievement of educational goals
  * Ability to contribute in a unique way to our program

  
  
Candidates will participate in an exit interview with the Program Director.
The exit interview is an opportunity for candidates to receive information
about the program and to have any remaining questions answered.  This
interview is not scored and does not contribute to the candidates total
interview score.  
  
On the evening prior to interviews, a virtual social event is held with
current residents and staff to allow candidates to get to know the members of
our program.  On interview day an information session will be provided by the
residents that describes our program highlights and gives an opportunity for
candidates to ask questions.  Participation in these events is optional and
does not contribute to the candidates total score.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The Selection Committee consists of all interviewers, Program Director, and
Assistant Program Director.  All Queen's EM residents participate in a general
discussion regarding each candidate and may identify issues related to
professionalism for the selection committee to consider.  Only members of the
Selection Committee participate in generating the rank order list.

## Program goals

**Queen 's University Emergency Medicine Residency Program Mission Statement**

The Queen's University Emergency Medicine Residency Program is committed to
providing a program of educational and clinical excellence. Our program is
rigorous, enjoyable and compassionate. We embrace diversity and teamwork and
value the community we form with our patients, their families and our medical
and allied health colleagues. We aim to create a culture of support and
mentorship in which our residents enjoy working and learning.

Our program is dedicated to training:

  * Specialist Emergency Medicine physicians who are outstanding clinicians and compassionate patient advocates 

  * Specialist Emergency Medicine physicians who are leaders in research, administration and educational scholarship dedicated to the advancement of knowledge in the specialty of Emergency Medicine 

  * Specialist Emergency Medicine physicians who are self-reflective and willing to embrace emerging technologies as a means to optimize personal performance and the safe delivery of patient care 

  * Specialist Emergency Medicine physicians who demonstrate a commitment to personal wellness, career sustainability and professional development and are able to successfully integrate work and life within the challenges of working in the ED environment  

We are looking for a cohort of residents with strong interpersonal,
organizational and problem solving skills who possess the ability to self-
reflect and a growth mindset.  Our residents adhere to high ethical and
professional standards in providing patient care.  They demonstrate leadership
and value our culture of community and teamwork.  Our residents embrace
diversity and are keen to contribute to our program with their unique skill
set and experience.

## Selection process goals

The Selection Committee reviews the interview scores and ranks candidates
based on the attributes already mentioned (see sections "General Information"
and "Review Process") and the following:

  * Strong interpersonal skills
  * Ability to self-reflect and incorporate feedback
  * Maturity, leadership, and motivation
  * Demonstrated interest in the specialty (including but not limited to: electives, leadership, research)
  * Creativity in life adjustments and achievement of educational goals
  * Ability to contribute in a unique way to our program

We abide by the Queen's University Postgraduate Medical Education policy
guiding Resident Selection:

  * Recruiting practices that promote diversity of the resident body, are free of inappropriate bias and respect the obligation to provide for reasonable accommodation needs where appropriate
  * Maintaining an environment of equity and fairness where all can work and learn

## File review process

Review team composition : Program Director, Assistant Program Director, 2-3
Queen's EM faculty, All PGY 3 residents

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Organized and professional presentation of candidate. Participation in leadership, research, advocacy, or workforce.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Evidence of an interest in Emergency Medicine   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Contribution to the community, ability to maintain work-life integration   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of meaningful leadership activities as part of and outside of medical school   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic and clinical performance and personal contributions during medical school   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Clear, concise, well-formulated articulation of how Queen's EM aligns with your career goals   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Successful and meaningful participation in clinical activities in the context of Emergency Medicine   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Evidence of meaningful scholarship during medical school in EM or related field   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance during medical school   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Evidence of experience in academic EM and related specialties.  We recognize
that, for a variety of reasons, travel and electives are not possible for some
applicants and this will not detract from your application.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence of and enthusiasm for teamwork and collaboration in clinical setting   
Collegiality |  Evidence that they get along and support colleagues, ability to discuss personal experiences   
Communication skills |  Evidence of excellent verbal and non-verbal communication skills, able to convey thoughts succinctly   
Health advocacy |  Evidence of advocacy activities in patient care, the health care system, and outside of medicine   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrable interest in Emergency Medicine   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrable interest in Queen's Emergency Medicine   
Leadership skills |  Evidence of meaningful leadership roles in medical or non-medical setting   
Professionalism |  Evidence of professionalism in all interpersonal interactions and behaviours on the interview day   
Scholarly activities |  Achievements in scholarly activities are viewed as an asset, not a requirement   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Queen’s EM is proud to offer a nationally recognized, five-year training
program in Emergency Medicine. As one of the first EM programs in Canada, our
curriculum has been carefully developed and refined to offer our residents an
outstanding educational experience. Our faculty includes recognized experts in
research, education, administration and clinical practice. Residents
experience the full breadth of medical practice in exceptional training
facilities including both academic and community hospitals and a state-of-the-
art simulation centre. Queen’s EM has a long tradition of innovation and we
continually strive to grow our program while ensuring we maintain our strong
sense of community.  Our residents come from across the country and choose
Queen’s EM because of its many strengths including:

  * **Clinical Exposure**

Our residents are fortunate to see a high volume, high acuity and wide variety
of patients, which is necessary to become competent specialist Emergency
Medicine physicians. This includes a high volume of pediatric patients.

  * **Exceptional Faculty**

Our faculty members share a passion for teaching and are incredibly supportive
of our residents. While we maintain a low faculty to resident ratio, over
recent years our Department has welcomed an enthusiastic group of new, young
and talented faculty members with expertise in Critical Care and
Resuscitation, Medical Education, Trauma, Addiction Medicine, Toxicology,
Ultrasound, Clinical Epidemiology, Global Health, Quality Improvement, and
Simulation.

  * **Program flexibility, Innovation and Responsiveness**

Queen’s EM has a strong tradition of being learner-centered. Our program
allows flexibility for residents to pursue academic areas of interest
including opportunities for interprovincial and international electives.  We
encourage residents and faculty to be active in program innovation. We offer a
robust academic curriculum and are committed to continue to improve the
learning experience for our residents. To that end, we actively seek feedback
from our residents on program performance during semi-annual program
evaluations. Results of these evaluations are discussed at our resident
retreats and inform opportunities for growth.  

  * **Simulation**

Queen’s EM is a national leader in simulation and resuscitation medicine. Our
residents learn and train in a state-of-the-art simulation facility on a
weekly basis starting from Week 1 of residency.

  * **Point of Care Ultrasound Training (POCUS)**

Our residents receive outstanding training in the use of basic and advanced
POCUS applications. Residents learn POCUS during their first academic day of
residency. Our dedicated POCUS curriculum includes: monthly grand rounds, US
journal club, six annual half days that cover the breadth of basic and
advanced applications, a rotation in advanced ultrasound in Core of Discipline
(PGY3), mentored scanning shifts and archived image review for quality
assurance of image generation and interpretation.

  * **Balanced Life Style**

We place a heavy emphasis on well-being and resident wellness. We are
committed to maintaining a culture that fosters a balanced lifestyle for
faculty and residents, celebrates diverse interests and values our sense of
community.

  * **Environment**

Due to the smaller size of our academic centre, faculty and residents from all
disciplines get to know each other personally and collaborate well in
educational, clinical and administrative areas. Our residents are a cohesive
group who enjoy one another’s company and have created an active social
atmosphere.

  * **Kingston**

The City of Kingston is continually ranked as on the best places to work and
live in Canada. Our residents are happy here and enjoy its high quality of
life, abundant attractions, lower cost of living, and minimal commute.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

This residency is 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.



The Queen’s University Emergency Medicine residency program is accredited by
the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada (March 2018).

Queen’s University Emergency Medicine transitioned to a Competency by Design
(CBD) framework in July 2017.

A Curriculum Map is provided on our departmental website at
<https://emergencymed.queensu.ca/academics/frcpc-residency-program>

**PGY-1**

The PGY1 year consists of the Transition to Discipline and Foundations of
Discipline stages.

Transition to Discipline (TD) consists of:

  * 3 blocks Emergency Medicine (KGH/HDH)
  * Attainment of the TD EPA 1-3 and Special Assessment (more information provided to successful candidates)
  * Junior Resuscitation Rounds
  * Summer Series – a mix of seminars, simulation rounds and procedural workshops

 Foundations of Discipline (FD) consists of:

  * 4 blocks Emergency Medicine (KGH/HDH)
  * 1 block of EM/research
  * 1 block Psychiatry
  * 1 block Pediatric Emergency Medicine - Children’s Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO)
  * 1 block Pediatrics (KGH/HDH)
  * 1 block Emergency Medical Services
  * 1 block Anaesthesia (KGH)
  * Attainment of FD EPA 1-4, relevant Core of Discipline EPAs (on Anaesthesia) and FD Special Assessments (more information will be provided to successful candidates)
  * Critical appraisal and clinical reasoning curriculum
  * Health Advocacy curriculum
  * Junior Resuscitation Rounds
  * QCare - A common academic half-day organized by Postgraduate Medical Education for all PGY1 residents. Topics include physician wellness, social responsibility and health advocacy, medicolegal issues, ethics, bedside teaching and supervision of junior learners and clinical documentation.
  * Simulation Rounds, Trauma Rounds and Academic Day

**Core of Discipline (PGY-2-4)**

The Core of Discipline (CD) comprises the bulk of residency training.

Attainment of CD EPAs 1-15 and Special Assessments will continue throughout
the stage (more information will be provided to successful candidates).

The Royal College certification exam will be completed at the end of CD in
PGY4.

The following rotation assignment is typical however; there is flexibility in
the order in which rotations may be completed.

PGY2

  * 4 blocks Emergency Medicine (KGH/HDH)
  * 1 block Orthopedics/MSK – a clinic based rotation at various Kingston training sites
  * 1 block Obstetrics & Gynecology (Lakeridge Health - Oshawa)
  * 1 block General Surgery (KGH)
  * 1 block Plastic Surgery (KGH/HDH)
  * 2 blocks Critical Care Medicine (KGH)
  * 1 block Geriatric Medicine/Palliative Care (PCC)
  * 1 block Internal Medicine (KGH)
  * Mentored teaching role in the simulation lab for Airway Curriculum 
  * Summer Series, Simulation Rounds, Trauma Rounds and Academic Day

PGY3

  * 5-6 blocks Emergency Medicine (KGH/HDH)
  * 1 block EM/Stroke Call (KGH)
  * 1 block community Emergency Medicine
  * 1 blocks Cardiology (KGH)
  * 1 block Advanced Ultrasound (KGH)
  * 1 block Thoracics
  * 1 block Pediatric Emergency Medicine – Children’s Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO)
  * Optional trauma elective
  * Coaching sessions for presentation skills
  * Large group didactic presentations at Grand Rounds, Journal Club and Morbidity & Mortality Rounds
  * Small group teaching in the simulation lab during Airway, Junior Resuscitation Rounds
  * Trauma Team Captain call shifts when on EM rotations
  * Summer Series, Simulation Rounds, Trauma Rounds, Academic Day, Admin curriculum

 Residents will rotate acting as Head Resident in the PGY3 year

 PGY4

  * 6-9 blocks Emergency Medicine (KGH/HDH)
  * 3-6 blocks electives
  * 1 block CHEO
  * 1 block Toxicology – Ontario Poison Control Center at the Hospital for Sick Children
  * Large group didactic presentations at Grand Rounds and Journal Club
  * Small group teaching sessions including Point of Care Ultrasound, Summer Series half days, procedural workshops and Junior Resuscitation Rounds
  * Trauma Team Captain call shifts when on EM rotations
  * Summer Series, Simulation Rounds, Trauma Rounds and Academic Day
  * Royal College certification exam

**Transition to Practice (PGY-5)**

The PGY5 year consists of the Transition to Practice (TP) stage and the Area
of Comprehensive Expertise (ACE)

  * 7 blocks of Emergency Medicine (may be longitudinal over 13 blocks with approval of the Program Director) (KGH/HDH)
  * 6 blocks (may be longitudinal over 13 blocks with approval of the Program Director) of dedicated training in an area of advanced learning
  * Attainment of the TP EPAs 1-6 and Special Assessments (more information will be provided to successful candidates)
  * TP administration bootcamp
  * QCare+ - A common academic half day organized by Postgraduate Medical Education twice a year that is mandatory for all residents in their final year of training. These sessions address issues related to transition to practice and career management
  * Large group didactic presentations at Grand Rounds and Journal Club
  * Small group teaching sessions including point of care ultrasound, Summer Series half days, procedural workshops and Junior Resuscitation Rounds
  * Trauma Team Captain call shifts when on EM rotations
  * Summer Series, Simulation Rounds, Trauma Rounds, Academic Day, Admin curriculum



**Teaching Rounds**

 **Summer Series (July – August)**

The Summer Series is an eight-week curriculum of topics and skills essential
to the practice of Emergency Medicine and is mandatory for all EM residents
throughout their training program. Topics include trauma, prehospital care,
ultrasound, procedural sedation and analgesia, MSK injuries, practical
procedural skills, and pediatric resuscitation. Seminars of topics related to
physician wellness and the humanities are also included. Specific procedural
skills include suturing, slit lamp examination, central lines,
casting/splinting, airway management, thoracentesis, fracture reduction, nerve
blocks and lumbar puncture. Point of Care Ultrasound basic skills are taught
and it is expected that by the end of the summer most PGY1 residents will have
completed the required 50 scans in each of the primary domains required for
certification.

For PGY1 residents, the Summer Series will provide a “bootcamp” orientation
experience to ensure that all incoming residents have a standard skill set on
which to build their clinical expertise in Emergency Medicine. In the PGY2-5
years, residents will again be exposed to these skills with the expectation
that they achieve greater levels of competency as they advance in training. By
the PGY 4/5 years, it is expected that residents will assume a teaching role
in the summer series.

 **Academic Day (September – June)**

Academic teaching rounds are held weekly on Thursdays. Attendance is mandatory
and residents are excused from clinical duties to attend rounds. While the
morning session consistently includes Grand and Core Rounds, the afternoon
session content will vary but is typically simulation based or procedural
workshops.

  * Grand Rounds – PGY3-5 residents will be assigned to present Grand Rounds on a rotational basis. Rounds may be case specific, address a topic relevant to EM or explore an area of evolving evidence or controversy. A review of current relevant literature is expected. Attending staff will also give a case presentation at start of the session.

  * Core Rounds – A detailed curriculum has been developed and is presented in a two-year cycle in a block-based format.  Rounds are led by a faculty member and are intended to be interactive learning opportunities.

  * Simulation Rounds - the simulation curriculum is designed to compliment and enhance the topics taught in core rounds, giving residents the opportunity to practice resuscitation, crisis resource management, team work, and procedural skills.

  * Cadaveric Procedural Skills – Residents practice airway and rare/resuscitative procedures such as ED thoracotomy on cadavers for two half days per year. These sessions are paired with didactic seminars. 

  * WRaPEM @QEmerg - A professional sustainability curriculum consisting of bimonthly sessions on various aspects of Wellness, Resilience and Performance in Emergency Medicine. Topics include: Personal Purpose, Self-care, Communication, Bad Outcomes, Gender & Diversity, Crisis Resource Management, Finances and Conflict Resolution. 

  * Trauma Rounds and Trauma Case Review – Once each per month led by a faculty Trauma Team Leader 

  * Point of Care Ultrasound – Three half day sessions/year focused on advanced ultrasound skills and clinical reasoning/application. Models with relevant pathology are provided during these hands-on training sessions.

**Research and Scholar Competencies**

We offer a dedicated research curriculum in the Foundations of Discipline
stage (PGY1) that integrates evidence-based medicine principles and landmark
EM literature with clinical reasoning for cardinal EM presentations such as
back pain, shock, shortness of breath and chest pain.

Residents are expected to complete a Best Bets project in the research block
of their PGY1 year and encouraged to complete a scholarly project or quality
improvement project in their PGY2-5 years. Our Resident Research Supervisor,
is available to assist residents in accessing the resources and supports
necessary to facilitate their research interests. Resident research and
academic projects are highlighted at the RJ Brison Research Day held annually
each spring.

Residents are funded to present research at national and international
academic meetings/conferences.

Journal Club occurs monthly and attendance is mandatory for residents while on
Emergency Medicine rotations. Two senior residents (one FRCP and one CCFP-EM)
will be assigned on a rotational basis to present an article of interest in
Emergency Medicine literature and lead a discussion on critical appraisal
appropriate to the type of research study chosen. Residents will also
facilitate a higher-level discussion on the integration of the evidence in an
Emergency Medicine practice.

**Health Advocacy Curriculum**



**Leader and Professional Competencies**

Residents participate in a comprehensive administration, quality improvement
and patient safety curriculum for leader competencies that includes two
academic half days per year, admin curriculum in PGY3 and 5, presentation of a
Morbidity & Mortality Rounds (PGY3), completion of a mortality audit (PGY3)
and dedicated bootcamp style workshops in Foundations of Discipline (PGY1) and
Transition to Practice (PGY5). In the clinical setting, residents are actively
involved in our clinical discrepancy process for laboratory and radiography
studies.

We believe that residents need to be competent educators and encourage the
development of teaching skills by various means.  Residents learn teaching
methodology in the core curriculum and are given graded responsibility for
teaching in one-on-one settings, simulation, and small group and large group
settings as they progress through training.

All residents are supported to achieve instructor status in PALS, ACLS, and
ATLS and are encouraged to teach these programs during residency and after
graduation.  

Residents are encouraged to register for the faculty development sessions
(formerly Residents as Teachers) on clinical and classroom teaching offered by
Postgraduate Medical Education.

Coaching sessions on presentation skills are provided annually for our PGY2/3
residents.



**TMTL Rounds**** **

Work life integration is essential for a long sustainable Emergency Medicine
career. TMTL Rounds are held once a year. During the rounds, staff and
residents are invited to present a brief topic of anything of interest or
importance to their lives outside of medicine. These rounds help us maintain
our collegial working environment and remind us that TMTL (There’s More to
Life).

**Awesome & Amazing Rounds**** **

Paired with our Morbidity & Mortality Rounds, the A&A Rounds recognize
positive deviance in residents, faculty or our medical/allied health
colleagues who have demonstrated exceptional skill in clinical care, advocacy
or teamwork.

**Practice Examinations**** **

All Residents are involved on a rotational basis with increasing frequency as
resident progress through their training. On average, PGY1 residents may
expect to participate in one oral examination/year whereas PGY4 residents may
expect to participate in oral examinations monthly.

Residents participate in the semi-annual Canadian In Training Exam. This
written exam is modelled in the Royal College format. Residents receive an
individual mark as well as a rank among their Canadian PGY cohort.

Formative OSCE examinations will be completed in the Simulation Lab twice a
year. These assessments will be videotaped to allow each resident to self-
reflect on their performance.



* * *

# Training Sites

**Kingston General Hospital (KGH)**

All in-hospital core rotations except Obstetrics take place at KGH.  KGH is a
480-bed tertiary care hospital and is the referral center for a population of
500,000. KGH is the regional trauma center receiving an average of 380
multiple trauma patients (defined by an Injury Severity Score of greater than
15) per year.  The Emergency Department is staffed 24 hours per day with
triple coverage by attending physicians from 1100-0100 daily. The Emergency
Department patient volume is 60,000 visits/year. The Emergency Department
consists of six patient areas and has 44 active treatment beds, 15 overflow
patient care beds and 12 chairs for ambulatory patients.  There are 21
monitored beds and the acute resuscitation area has 9 beds. Residents, staff
physicians and the charge nurse are linked with cordless telephones to
facilitate communication.  All medical records, including patient charting,
laboratory and radiology investigation and physician order entry is performed
on the Emergency Department Information System (EDIS) and will be
transitioning to LUMEO in December 2024.

**Hotel Dieu Hospital (HDH)**  

All outpatient clinics and a large outpatient imaging service are located at
the HDH.  The Urgent Care Center is open from 0800 – 2000 daily and is
equipped to handle ambulatory emergencies.  There is double coverage by
attending physicians from 1000 – 1800 daily. The patient volume is 50,000
patients per year. The HDH is an excellent facility for learning the
management of less serious outpatient medical problems, minor procedural
skills and ED administrative principles such as patient flow strategies. All
medical records, including patient charting, laboratory and radiology
investigation and physician order entry is performed on the Emergency
Department Information System (EDIS) and will be transitioning to LUMEO in
December 2024.

**Children’s Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO)**  

Pediatric Emergency rotations take place at CHEO.  Residents do one block of
Pediatric Emergency Medicine at CHEO in their first year as a junior resident
and one block in PGY3 and PGY4 at the senior resident level.  CHEO is a
University of Ottawa teaching hospital and is the tertiary pediatric referral
center for Eastern Ontario.** **

**Other Teaching facilities**  

The Toxicology rotation is based at the Ontario Poison Control Center located
at the Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto.

The Obstetrics and Gynecology rotation is arranged through the Department of
Family Medicine and takes place in Oshawa.  



Residents may pursue mandatory rotations outside of the usual locations listed
above upon approval of the Program Director. If rotations are completed
outside of the usual location, residents are required to fund associated
accommodation and transportation costs.

* * *

# FAQ

Please contact our Program Coordinator with specific questions.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27192?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27192