#  University of Calgary - Neuropathology - Calgary

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 09, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Denise Ng  

Address Pathology & Laboratory Medicine  
Foothills Hospital - McCaig Tower  
Room 7573, 7th Floor, 1403 - 29th Street NW  
Calgary, Alberta, T2N2T9  

Work  (403) 944-4639

Fax  (403) 944-1460

Websites of Interest [ University of Calgary - Department of Pathology &
Laboratory Medicine ](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/departments/pathology/home)  
[ University of Calgary Neuropathology Residency Training Program
](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/departments/pathology/education/programs-
information)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Denise Ng

Title: Program Director

Email: Denise.Ng@albertaprecisionlabs.ca

Phone: 403-944-6682

  

Name: Kristy Campbell

Title: Program Administrator

Email: Kristy.Campbell@albertaprecisionlabs.ca

Phone: 403-944-4639

  

* * *

# Important Information

The structure of the health regions in Alberta and Calgary allow for
centralization of neuropathology service for the greater Calgary region to two
sites; the Foothills Medical Centre and the Alberta Children's Hospital. This
program has a dedicated neuropathology laboratory with expertise in processing
and staining tissues of the nervous system and muscle located at Foothills
Medical Centre. The neuropathology laboratory receives neuropathology
specimens from all of Calgary and in the case of medical muscle and peripheral
nerve biopsy from all of southern Alberta.

All Alberta laboratories were amalgamated into Alberta Precision Laboratories.
This has resulted in significant improvements in our pathology residency
training program with an increased degree of staff specialization, greater
participation in teaching for all 85 Calgary pathologists, and a common
laboratory database serving our catchment area of over one million people.

Neuropathology has a strong relationship with the Department of Clinical
Neurosciences at the Foothills Medical Centre and Alberta Children's Hospital.
In addition, the University of Calgary also has a world-class basic
neuroscience research.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Useful Electives/Experience:

Neuropathology, Anatomical Pathology, Adult Neurology, Neurosurgery, Neuro-
Radiology; Pediatric Neurology or other neuroscience or pathology related
field.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Optional - will be reviewed

Medical School Diploma

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 22, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interview date for the 2025 Match will be
January 22nd, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The program administrator will
contact all selected candidates to arrange for interviews. Applicants are
encouraged to confirm interviews as early as possible. Telephone interviews
are permitted in extenuating circumstances but are not encouraged.  
  
All interviews for the 2025 Match will be held virtually on the Zoom Platform
with residents and other members of the Neuropathology Residency Training
Program Committee.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Good to strong academic record.

Demonstrated interest in neuropathology (for example by prior undergraduate
work in neuroscience, graduate level study of neuroscience, rotations in
neurology, neurosurgery, and pathology, or rotation(s) in neuropathology).

## Program goals

The program aims to train future neuropathologists whose career goals may
include any part or combination of the full spectrum of practice in Canada. In
addition to clinical practice competencies achieved through broad-based
training, nurturing skills for future activity in research and medical
education are also emphasized. Foundations will be laid for advocacy and
development of the discipline by participating in the discipline's regional,
national or international activities and working with other physicians and
allied health colleagues in the setting of interdisciplinary rounds, clinical
correlation rounds and quality assurance activities. The program aims to
cultivate core skills in communication and teamwork with high standards of
professionalism. Instilling lifelong learning skills will also benefit future
graduates as they navigate the changing medical landscape and a diversity of
career paths.

Date of last accreditation: 2022

## Selection process goals

  * Documented interest and experience in neuropathology, neuroscience, or pathology
  * Aptitude for pathology (strong evaluations from pathology elective(s) or a letter of reference from a pathologist/neuropathologist)
  * Broad and well-rounded medical knowledge (strong medical school performance and/or examination scores)
  * Excellent written and spoken skills in English as well as non-verbal communication skills
  * Evidence of research and teaching ability
  * Desirable personal attributes such as collegiality, teamwork skills, leadership skills, conflict management ability, and time management skills
  * Professionalism attributes include integrity, reliability, collegiality, resilience, punctuality and responsibility

## File review process

Review team composition : All staff neuropathologists and neuropathology
residents participate in file review, interview selection discussion,
interviews, and final applicant discussions. This team includes the Program
Director, Assistant Program Director and all neuropathology residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
Less than 20

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Elective time; observershps; or research in Neuropathology and in related areas; written skills   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Elective experiences in Neuropathology related areas are recommended. Electives in Calgary are suggested to increase understanding of the local laboratory learning environment but is not required.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Extra-curricular activities are important for mental health and reflects a well-rounded candidate   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Activities reflecting candidate initiative and ability to work in a team setting to achieve goals   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Features supportive of professionalism, ethical behavior, and collegiality are required   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Communication skills (fluency,precision), candidate's interest in the discipline/program and insight   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  A letter of reference from a pathologist/neuropathologist is preferred, but not required   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Should reflect interest or experience in research activity   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  A variety of undergraduate backgrounds are welcome in the program   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Elective experiences in Pathology, Neuropathology or
other laboratory medicine specialty is highly recommended.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We look at the entire candidate to determine i) their interest in
neuropathology (based on prior experience), ii) their ability to learn
academic subjects such as pathology and neuroanatomy, and iii) their personal
interactions with others. We encourage applicants to have some exposure to
neuropathology or pathology which can be virtual so they come with an active
knowledge of this specialty. We do not, however, encourage a complete set of
narrow rotations in clinical neurosciences, since we believe that a well-
rounded education is the best preparation for neuropathology.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Personal attributes/experiences in teamwork   
Collegiality |  Personal attributes/experiences that contribute to the workplace culture, self-awareness   
Communication skills |  Proficient comprehension with expression reflecting deliberation and precision   
Health advocacy |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Interest in the discipline |  Understands scope of the discipline and daily work; enthusiasm for neurosciences   
Interest in the program |  Understands features of the program that support personal career goals   
Leadership skills |  Initiative or creativity in problem solving and/or teamwork   
Professionalism |  Experiences in conflict management and attributes of physician responsibility/ethics   
Scholarly activities |  Activities/goals in research/medical education with an awareness of possible career paths   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Almost all material from the Calgary Region catchment area is examined at one
location, in the McCaig Tower at the Foothills Medical Centre. Important
relationships with the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner and Alberta
Childrens' Hospital for forensic and pediatric neuropathology are accessible
within a 30 minute walk from the main site. The neuropathology lab, the
neuropathologists and neuropathology residents are all located in one wing of
one floor within the department also including colleagues in anatomical
pathology, general pathology and hematopathology, facilitating interactions
with other laboratory medicine residents and staff.

The Foothills Medical Centre is located approximately 6 km from downtown
Calgary. Calgary is located near the Canadian Rocky Mountains and is only a 1
hour drive from Banff with easy access to a variety of outdoor activities,
both summer and winter. Calgary is a vibrant and growing city of slightly
greater than 1.2 million people. The city and our department reflect a culture
of diversity and inclusion.

**Strengths of program:**

Our teaching staff is a relatively large group of five neuropathologists, of
whom three are primarily clinical neuropathologists and two clinician-
investigators who participate in significant research in Neuro-Oncology. All
are actively engaged in undergraduate and postgraduate teaching.  The current
resident group consist of three neuropathology trainees. The program also has
active collaboration with multiple programs, hosting rotating residents from
neurology, neurosurgery and pathology residents rotating through
neuropathology. The workload comprises adult, pediatric and perinatal
neuropathology including surgical material and autopsy material which also
includes an active neuromuscular pathology service. A dedicated longitudinal
forensic pathology experience has been in practice for a few years with
collaboration with the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner.  Materials are
further supplemented by diverse teaching slide sets.

Two examinations are held every year, including a written and practical
examination as well as the ASCP NPISE. Additional in-house examination
simulations are held through case-based teaching sessions at academic half-day
and through participation in inter-institutional diagnostic slide sessions
monthly. Other academic half-day activities include a roughly two-year
curriculum of didactics, and regular journal club. Collaboration with the
other laboratory medicine residencies also allow for occasional attendance of
other academic teaching as service permits. Teaching and examinations
regularly incorporate digital pathology, using the similar digital platform as
that of the Royal College examination.

**Other Key Features:**

Neurosciences are a major focus of the University of Calgary with a wide
variety of bench and translational research providing exceptional opportunity
for interaction amongst the various disciplines of the neurosciences including
neurosurgery, adult neurology, pediatric neurology, and neuroradiology.

**Common Clinical Encounters:**

The Neuropathology service comprises intra-operative consultation, surgical
pathology specimens, muscle biopsies, peripheral nerve biopsies, and autopsies
(adult, perinatal and pediatric in hospital and forensic settings). The
autopsy service includes medical, neurodegenerative, neoplastic, and pediatric
malformation/developmental cases. Neuropathologists and residents participate
in or present at frequent clinical rounds, including clinical correlation
rounds, brain tumour boards and quality assurance activities allowing for
teaching and education.

**Workload:**

These are estimations of approximate workhours and can vary widely. Duty hours
comply with criteria outlined by the newest PARA agreement.

Rotation type |  Duty hours |  Estimated recommended reading |  Call frequency  
---|---|---|---  
Clinical rotations |  As per PARA |  Ad libidum |  As per PARA  
Anatomical pathology rotations |  ~ 40 h/week |  Ad libidum |  Home call with neuropathology 1 week at a time, 1 week maximum per block starting after six blocks of pathology have been completed  
Neuropathology |  ~ 40 h/week |  At least 10 hours/week minimum is recommended |  Home call with neuropathology 1 week at a time, 1 week maximum per block  
  


* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The neuropathology training program has transitioned to the Competency by
Design and new trainees will adhere to the CBD training curriculum and
evaluation strategies. The neuropathology staff have had professional
development in this area and have had previous experience with CBD residents
from other laboratory medicine programs.

**Transition to Discipline (3 months)**

A laboratory medicine ‘boot camp” is centered at Foothills Medical Centre. It
has been in place for at least three years coordinating orientation and early
training of anatomical pathology, general pathology and neuropathology
residents, all of whom have similar overlapping TtD EPAs. This training
experience includes orientation to the pathology department, the laboratory
medicine information system, basic specimen handling, and basic microscopy
skills.

**Foundation (approximately 8 months clinical, at least 11 months anatomical
pathology)**

The foundations stage includes clinical rotations and anatomical pathology
rotations. The clinical rotations establish the clinical understanding and
experience for clinical context to improve skills in diagnostic correlation
and interpretation as a neuropathologist. Clinical rotations consist of a
rotation in adult neurology, adult neuro-oncology, pediatric neurology,
pediatric oncology, internal medicine, neurosurgery, neuroradiology and an
elective. The anatomical pathology rotations provide some more flexibility,
but recommendations are as follows:

General surgical pathology 2-3 blocks

Pediatric pathology 2 blocks

Bone and soft tissue pathology 1 block

Lymph node pathology 1 block

Head and neck pathology 1 block

Molecular pathology 1 block

Autopsy pathology 2 blocks

Forensic pathology 1 block

**Core (at least 2 years)**

Core neuropathology training consists of an integrated service of both
surgical and autopsy experiences. Pediatric neuropathology is concurrent with
specimens referred to the Foothills Medical Centre for interpretation and
diagnosis. In addition to a wide panel of special and immunohistochemical
stains performed in-house, on site electron microscopy and molecular testing
are available for neuropathology resident to gain direct skills in
interpretation and integration of ancillary findings.

Hospital autopsies are also centralized in Calgary, such that all Calgary
regional autopsies are performed at Foothills Medical Centre, ranging between
180 to 220 adult autopsies a year and 120 to 150 perinatal/pediatric autopsies
a year.

Residents are also expected to participate in quality assurance activities
which may include quality assurance rounds, or a quality improvement project.
At least one scholarly project is expected to be completed during residency,
which may include research, quality assurance/quality improvement, or medical
education project.

Electives in subspecialty areas are also acceptable during this period. Some
funding is available to support neuropathology subspecialty electives which
may include but is not limited to pediatric neuropathology, forensic
neuropathology, or neuromuscular pathology.

**Transition to Practice (approximately 3 months)**

This stage is meant to be an opportunity for residents to function as a junior
staff with responsibilities to manage appropriate workloads in preparation for
full practice under supervision. Activities will also include the expected
participation in clinicopathologic correlation rounds and quality assurance
activities.

**Research**

There are active research programs in neurodegenerative disorders,
neurodegeneration, cerebral ischemia and neuro-oncology. Active participation
by trainees in one or another research program will be strongly encouraged.
Clinical research such as publication/conference presentation of interesting
case studies/series is expected. Attendance at national specialty conferences
is strongly encouraged for research experience, career development and
professional networking. Presentation of at least one scholarly project during
at least one of the departmental Research Days is expected.

**Teaching**

Residents received teaching in a case-based during service, through
multidisciplinary rounds and at the neuropathology academic half day which
includes a two year curriculum of topics delivered through case-based teaching
cases, didactics, and interactive ‘flipped classroom’ discussions. Regular
journal club discussions aimed at developing academic appraisal skills are
resident led with staff supervision and participation.

Residents learn and develop teaching skills through mandatory PGME training
workshops and have to opportunity to engage in further workshop training if so
desired. Development of a teaching portfolio through resident participation in
teaching occurs with visiting medical students, rotating residents, and other
neuropathology residents.



* * *

# Training Sites

**General Aspects**

Neuropathology in the Calgary Zone is centralized under Alberta Precision
Laboratories (APL) South Sector. The neuropathology laboratory and most of the
neuropathology training occurs at the Foothills Medical Centre, McCaig Tower.
Additional sites of training include Alberta Children's Hospital (training in
paediatric neuropathology) and the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner
(forensic neuropathology).

The dedicated neuropathology laboratory processes all of the autopsies and
surgical specimens, all nerve and muscle biopsies, and most of the special
stains unique to neuropathology. Surgical neuropathology specimens and brain
autopsies from most of Southern Alberta are handled by the Calgary
neuropathology group.

Our Program Director, Dr. Denise Ng, was appointed Program Director in 2017.
In addition to being a Royal College Fellow in Neuropathology, she is also a
Royal College Fellow in Anatomical Pathology.  She is also a Fellow in the
College of American Pathologists with completion of her American Board of
Pathology Certification in Anatomic Pathology and Neuropathology.  All staff
pathologists show main academic interests in teaching with active
participation in transitioning to Competency By Design.  To meet the demands
of the ever-expanding field of the clinical neurosciences, the University of
Calgary Neuropathology Training Program is constantly undergoing transition to
ensure best practices are brought forward.

 Features of the program include:

i) encouragement for residents to be involved in research (basic and
clinical),

ii) development of new teaching tools, including virtual microscopy,

iii) training in molecular diagnostics and other molecular techniques,

iv) improved longitudinal clinical exposures in paediatric and forensic
neuropathology, and;

v) progressive or graded responsibility for the resident, commensurate with
their training and competency.

The program aims to be dynamic; to that end, we expect the neuropathology
resident to participate in quality improvement processes for the program
including active engagement in the residency training program through their
chief resident duties and program meeting discussions.

The goal of our program is to graduate competent surgical and autopsy
neuropathologists who will advance the discipline of neuropathology by their
involvement in service, academics, research, and education.

**Training Sites**

\- Foothills Medical Centre (FMC)

\- Alberta Children's Hospital (ACH)

\- Office of the Chief Medical Examiner (OCME)

\- Diagnostic and Scientific Centre (DSC)

\- Rockyview General Hospital (RGH)

\- Peter Lougheed Centre (PLC)

\- South Health Campus (SHC)

* * *

# Additional Information

**Quick Facts**

\- Interprovincial and international electives are possible.  Each request for
training outside the province is reviewed individually and approved by the
Neuropathology Residency Program Committee.

\- The neuropathology program in Calgary currently has six neuropathologists
on staff.

\- The residents' room is equipped with individual computers, microscopes,
ergonomic desks,a microscope camera, library of reference material, access to
electronic medical records and resources, and equipment for preparing
presentations or rounds including dedicated cameras.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26675?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26675