#  University of Calgary - Diagnostic Radiology - Calgary  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 27, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 5

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Muhammed Hatem  

Address Diagnostic Imaging  
Foothills Medical Centre  
1403 29 Street N.W.  
Calgary, Alberta, T2N 2T9  

Work  403-944-4530

Fax  403-944-4577 fax

Websites of Interest [ Cumming School of Medicine/University of Calgary PGME
](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/pgme)  
[ Department of Radiology, University of Calgary
](https://www.ucalgary.ca/radiology/)  
[ Casper ](https://takealtus.com/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Muhammed Hatem

Title: Program Director

Email: muhammed.hatem@ahs.ca

Phone: 4039444530

  

Name: Anne-Marie Brisson

Title: Assistant Program Director

Email: annemarie.brisson@ahs.ca

Phone: 4039444530

  

Name: Crystal Ryszewski

Title: Program Administrator

Email: Crystal.Ryszewski@ahs.ca

Phone: 403-944-4530

  

Name: Bonnie McCardle

Title: Program administrator

Email: bonnie.mccardle@ahs.ca

Phone: 403-944-4747

  

Name: Pamie Dow

Title: Program Administrator

Email: Pamie.Dow@ahs.ca

Phone: 403-944-4530

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Competency by Design (CBD)  **

Prospective residents for this iteration beginning PGY1 in July 1st 2025 will
be the 4th cohort of CBD residents at University of Calgary for Diagnostic
Radiology.

If you'd like to learn more about CBD; check out the [Royal College
website.](https://www.royalcollege.ca/en/standards-and-
accreditation/competence-by-design)



**Casper Test**

 All applicants are required to complete the Casper Test to assist with our
selection process for the 2025 Application Cycle.



**University of Calgary PGME Information:**

<https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/pgme/future-trainees/canadian-medical-school-
graduates/residency>



**Electives & Observership Information:**

<https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/pgme/future-trainees/canadian-medical-school-
graduates/visiting-electives-and-observerships>

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. Please give careful consideration to
your selection of referees. References should be obtained from research or
work supervisor, and/or clinicians who know you well and have worked directly
with you. Referee should state their relationship and length of association
with the applicant. They should be able to comment on your medical knowledge,
clinical and interpersonal skills, your strengths and weaknesses and be able
to compare your performance to the standard expected for your level of
training, or to other students they have worked with.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

The letter should outline the candidate's past background, interests and
accomplishments and include reasons for choosing the diagnostic radiology
program at the University of Calgary.  Please limit the length of the letter
to 750 words.

Custom Résumé / CV

The Curriculum Vitae should include, but not necessarily be limited to,
previous and current education and all degrees, all Radiology electives,
shadowing and research activities as well as any previous work experience and
extracurricular activities.

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

please attach transcript

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Candidates will be selected on the basis of individual merit.

The CaRM selection committee reviews all candidates and assigns numerical
value to all aspects of the application. This numerical value is calculated
for an average score. Interviews are then ranked based on score.

We anticipate interviewing 35 candidates for the 2025 interview cycle.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: **Interview dates for University of
Calgary** :  
  

  1. Wednesday, January 22, 2025 - 0800-1630 MST
  2. Thursday, January 23, 2025 - 0800-1630 MST
  3. Friday, January 24, 2025 - 0800-1200 MST

Social evening (virtual) - 1800 MST - Thursday, January 23, 2025  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: **Interview Process** :  
  

  * There are 3 days of virtual interviews.
  * The total interview time for each candidate is 60 minutes; 
    * 30 minutes - Panel Interview with Program Directors and Faculty 
    * 30 minutes - Interview with Lead Residents 
  * The interview includes a few pre-selected questions from the faculty members, with ample time for the faculty and candidate to converse and ask questions to learn more about the program and each other. 
  * A virtual social event, organized by the residents, is held on the 2nd evening of the interview schedule. The evening will start off with a 30-minute Information session followed by Q&A. The remainder of the evening consists of breakout rooms and games to further engage with the Radiology residents.

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

The goal of the Diagnostic Radiology Residency Program at the University of
Calgary is to prepare the next generation of physicians to become highly
skilled clinical radiologists while also teaching the skills required to excel
in research, education, and innovation in the field of diagnostic imaging.  To
advance health and knowledge locally and globally through the development and
application of innovative and impactful precision medical imaging. The
Diagnostic Radiology Residency Program at the University of Calgary strives
for excellence as learners and patient care providers, while fostering an
environment of collegiality and respect.

## Selection process goals

A successful applicant is expected to have an above average academic record
and demonstrate an interest in the field of radiology through a combination of
work experience, electives/observerships and research. Successful candidates
require strong communication and interpersonal skills so they can excel in a
collegial team environment among their fellow residents and staff as well as
represent the program well interacting with referring clinicians and allied
health providers. Applications should demonstrate a commitment to wellness,
lifelong learning, and excellence through a well rounded combination of
personal, work and academic experiences.  

## File review process

Review team composition : Interviews are approximately 1 hour in length using
the following format;  
1\. 30 minutes – Panel Interview consisting of Program Director, Assistant
Program director and 2 faculty members  
2\. 30 minutes – Interview with the 2 Lead Residents  
The admin team will greet all candidates and facilitate the zoom rooms  
  
  

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  
usually 36 candidates

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  well rounded CV with strong academic, extra curricular & personal skills   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Since, elective experiences were severely limited due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we will not be considering electives in file review to ensure file review is fair and equitable for all candidates.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  will be reviewed   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  demonstrated skills & interests outside of medicine   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  demonstrated leadership with emphasis on communication skills   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  academic and overall clinical experience   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  passion for radiology with combination of experience & insight   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  positive reference letters from individuals that know the candidate well   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  interest and/or experience in research   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  all transcripts from graduate and undergraduate transcripts are reviewed   
Other file component(s) |  Observerships, Work Experience, Achievements and Interests   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Elective experiences were severely limited due to the
COVID-19 pandemic, we will not be considering electives in file review to
ensure file review is fair and equitable for all candidates.

On Site Elective: Elective experiences were severely limited due to the
COVID-19 pandemic, we will not be considering electives in file review to
ensure file review is fair and equitable for all candidates.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  no specific criteria but assessed indirectly through application documents & interview   
Collegiality |  no specific criteria but assessed indirectly through application documents & interview   
Communication skills |  no specific criteria but assessed indirectly through application documents & interview   
Health advocacy |  no specific criteria but assessed indirectly through interview   
Interest in the discipline |  previous work experience, research & electives   
Interest in the program |  interest & knowledge specifically regarding the UofC program   
Leadership skills |  no specific criteria but assessed indirectly through application documents & interview   
Professionalism |  no specific criteria but assessed indirectly through application documents & interview   
Scholarly activities |  overall assessment of education, experience, research & electives   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**SPECIFIC FEATURES**

Training provided at the University of Calgary Residency Program in Diagnostic
Radiology is at a high level. The preceptors in the Department of Radiology
are dedicated instructors and are experts in their respective subspecialties.
The catchment is both large and comprehensive and the imaging equipment is
state-of-the-art. The overall educational experience is excellent for the
training of qualified radiologists.

We are the only diagnostic radiology program in Canada to offer a Senior
Resident Radiology Clinic in which a senior resident has the opportunity to
gain confidence and independence in a community radiology clinic.  This clinic
will be an important component as we transition to competency based medical
education.

The Visiting Professor program occurs 4-6 times per year to teach over two
days and brings in world-renowned experts in radiology and authors of the
classic and innovating textbooks fundamental to radiology.  The Visiting
Professor program allows our residents to access the best radiology teachers
and educators in the world and it connects the residents with experts from
major teaching centres, which has opened doors to highly competitive
fellowships.

There are opportunities for training outside of Calgary, including a
Pathology/Radiology (AIRP) course in Maryland, a pre-call preparation course
in Ottawa and elective training in rural Alberta.  

Research is a required and supported component of the program with many
qualified and prolific researchers in the department who serve as mentors and
resources.  There is an annual Department of Radiology Research Day where
residents are invited to present their research.  

**EQUIPMENT**

We have some of the most advanced imaging equipment available including 3
clinical and 2 cardiac 3T MRI scanners, US, CEUS, CT, PET, CT SPECT and
fluoroscopy.  Digital image processing (PACS) is performed daily on dedicated
workstations throughout the department.  Advanced diagnostic and therapeutic
body, vascular and neurointerventional imaging suites rounds out the complete
spectrum of imaging infrastructure in Calgary.

**RESOURCES**  

Teaching and educational resources include a dedicated resident library with
three workstations (PC and Mac) for research and manuscript preparation.
Digital subscriptions to all major DI journals and comprehensive online
resources, such as STATdx, are maintained.  Many electronic textbooks and
online resources are available through the University of Calgary library.  For
case conferences, teaching rounds and multidisciplinary rounds there is a
dedicated DI lecture theatre outfitted with professional grade presentation
equipment optimized for presentation of high resolution complex diagnostic
radiology images and case presentations.

**CHECK OUT OUR VIDEO PRESENTED BY THE RESIDENTS  **

**HIT THIS LINK - > [VIDEO
LINK](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=urfAlZNIE2k)**

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

We adhere to the Professional Association of Resident Physicians of Alberta
(PARA) agreement

[Agreement | Professional Association of Resident Physicians of Alberta (para-ab.ca)](https://www.para-ab.ca/agreement/)

Medical Education Office (MEO) of Alberta Health Services

[Postgraduate Medical Education | Alberta Health Services](https://www.albertahealthservices.ca/medstaff/Page15505.aspx)

**Transition to Discipline (TTD)**

The PGY-1 year consists of 11 blocks and is designed to provide a broad
background in clinical medicine. This training will facilitate not only the
candidate's preparation for the Medical Council of Canada Qualifying
Examination, but will also serve to develop the extensive core knowledge
required in the role as a consultant Radiologist.

Rotation | Duration  
---|---  
General Internal Medicine   | 4 weeks  
General Internal Medicine Subspecialty | 4 weeks  
Respirology | 4 weeks  
General Surgery | 4 weeks  
Surgical Subspecialty - most commonly Urology | 4 weeks  
Emergency Medicine | 4 weeks  
Neurology | 4 weeks  
Radiation Oncology Medical Oncology |  2 weeks 2 weeks  
Pediatric Emergency | 4 weeks  
Elective - Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology | 4 weeks  
Diagnostic Radiology | 12 weeks  
  


**Foundations of Discipline (FD)**

The foundations stage will last 8 blocks after successful completion of the
TTD stage. This stage encompasses the core rotations required prior to
beginning independent overnight radiology on-call services (typically in
December of their PGY2 year).

Residents will rotate through core rotations (a total of 8) including Neuro
and body CT, thoracics, ultrasound, GI/GU Fluoroscopy, MSK and ER and the
educational focus of these rotations will be on-call scenarios/cases.

Successful completion of the PGY2/Foundations OSCE is also expected before
beginning independent on-call services.

**Core of Discipline (Core 1 and Core 2)**

The core stage constitutes the majority of residency training. Residents in
this stage will be building upon their fundamental knowledge obtained in the
foundations stage with rotations through all areas of subspecialty medical
imaging with fellowship trained radiologists.

Core rotations include abdominopelvic CT/MRI, neuro CT/MRI, thoracics,
cardiac, breast imaging, ultrasound, GI/GU fluoroscopy, CT GU (at a 2nd
community hospital site), MSK (in both the tertiary and community hospital
setting), maternal-fetal-medicine/obstetrical imaging and nuclear medicine.

Additional rotations through pediatric radiology (4 blocks), interventional
radiology (3 blocks) will also occur in this stage.

During this stage the resident will also have ample elective blocks in order
to discover a field of interest in order to pursue additional fellowship
training post-residency.

The core 1 stage will span approximately 23 blocks and will focus on lower
volumes and less complex cases; in the core 2 stage the emphasis will be on
higher volumes and greater case complexity.

In core 2, residents will also have 1 block allocated to attend the AIRP
(American Institute for Radiological Pathology) course. This is a course
attended by essentially all radiology residents in Canada and the USA and is
an excellent opportunity for advancing knowledge as well as networking with
potential colleagues.

Successful completion of the Core 1 and Core 2 stages permits the resident to
challenge the royal college examination to receive board certification
(FRCPC); which is expected to be in the early PGY5 year and prior to beginning
the Transition to Practice stage.

**Transition to Practice (TTP)**

The Royal college examination is expected to be moved from the end of PGY5 to
likely the early PGY5. In the last 6 blocks of PGY5 where the TTP resident has
successfully received Canadian board certification rotations will then be
tailored to residents who are now ready to perform at the level of a junior
consultant. They will be expected to perform all CanMEDS competencies
throughout these high-level rotations.

This stage includes 2 blocks in our "Senior's Clinic"; this is an outpatient
lower volume community clinic where TTP residents will have the opportunity to
run an outpatient general radiology clinic interpreting ultrasound (general
and obstetrical), general radiography and mammography with faculty available
for consultation should questions arise.

Two elective blocks have been allocated to the TTP resident's in fields of
their choice. This allows trainees to tune-up any subspecialty knowledge prior
to departing for fellowships or for additional training in specialized fields
such as cardiac imaging, or interventional radiology if more advanced
skillsets are required for employment opportunities secured right out of
residency.

Two blocks of a "community hospital" rotation is also under development and
expected to be ready for 2025/2026. This rotation will allow TTP residents to
function at the level of a junior consultant for a lower volume, lower acuity
hospital interpreting radiography, ultrasound, CT and MRI as well as perform
minor procedures. TTP residents will also benefit from having subspecialty
faculty readily available for consultation when appropriate.

**RESEARCH**

All Foundation stage residents are involved in one quality assurance (QA/QI)
project. A second research project leading to either a presentation at a
recognized national or international meeting or a publication in a refereed
journal is also mandatory during the residency. Four weeks are provided to
conduct research to be used during the Foundation through to the Transition to
Practice stages.  Funding is provided to residents to present papers at
conferences.

Residents also participate in Journal Club, scheduled 3-4 times per year.

**SEMINARS**

Introductory lecture series for TTD residents is given just prior to the FD
stage.

There are daily noon-hour rounds, usually case-based, but also lectures.

Academic half-day occurs weekly, 12 months per year. The half-day includes
lectures by faculty radiologists, visiting professors and pediatric case
rounds.

Monthly obstetrical ultrasound rounds by perinatologists are a regular
component of the seminar schedule.

Monday morning rounds are also provided by faculty and fellows before the
start of the workday.

A well-established in-house and visiting professor program enhances teaching.
Intensive teaching is provided over a 1 to 1-1/2 day period by local experts
or visiting luminaries in the field of Diagnostic Radiology from across Canada
and the USA.  These dedicated Diagnostic Imaging teaching sessions occur 4-6
times per year.

Clinical rounds are also attended by faculty and residents.  The type of
rounds varies depending on the clinical specialty, but are usually case-based.
The discussion and interaction with the clinical colleagues enhances the
radiology residents' understanding of the disease processes.

**POST RESIDENCY**

**Fellowships** : Residents have been successful in obtaining fellowships in
well-recognized centres across North America.

**Employment** : Residents have consistently obtained positions in desired
centres in Canada and the USA.  In recent years, all residents have pursued
fellowship training prior to starting their radiology practice.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Foothills Medical Centre (FMC)** :  This is the primary location for
resident training in Diagnostic Radiology.  It is a tertiary acute care and
academic facility home to the trauma centre, neurosurgery, cancer care and the
Calgary Stroke Program for southern Alberta.  Calgary zone hospitals are well
equipped with some of the most advanced imaging equipment available today.
Located at the FMC are intraoperative and cardiac 3T MRI scanners, CT, PET,
CEUS, US, Mammo, SPECT and DXA.

**Alberta Children's Hospital (ACH)** :  An academic acute care children's
hospital and tertiary pediatric referral site for southern Alberta with
inpatient, outpatient and emergency services.  Radiology residents spend 4
blocks training at the ACH in pediatric radiology.

**Rockyview General Hospital (RGH)** :  Hospital in southwest Calgary,
offering comprehensive community services for inpatients and outpatients.
Radiology residents spend their PGY-1 year at RGH and they may also spend time
in CT/GU later in residency.

**Peter Lougheed Centre (PLC)** :  Hospital in northeast Calgary, offering
comprehensive community services for inpatients and outpatients.  Radiology
residents may spend time at PLC in MSK radiology.

**Richmond Road Diagnostic and Treatment Centre (RRDTC)** :  An outpatient
facility in southwest Calgary with CT and MRI staffed by faculty radiologists
and also used for resident training.  Radiology residents spend 3 blocks at
RRDTC in comprehensive MSK radiology.

**South Health****  Campus (SHC)**:   Outpatient, inpatient and emergency
services are offered with CT, MRI, ultrasound, nuclear medicine staffed by
faculty radiologists.

**Community Clinics:  **Radiology residents attend three community clinics
within walking distance to FMC where they are supervised and taught by U of C
faculty radiologists and perinatologists.

One clinic is the **Calgary Maternal Fetal Medicine Centre** where residents
have 1:1 teaching by faculty perinatologists.  Radiology residents spend two
full blocks at the MFM Centre honing their ultrasound scanning while seeing
the full breadth of low risk to high risk obstetrical ultrasound cases from
southern Alberta.

The second clinic is a **community radiology clinic** where each resident
spends two blocks learning community screening and diagnostic mammography from
faculty radiologists.

The third clinic is a dedicated **Senior Residents' Clinic** focused on
community ultrasound and radiography and is the only one of it's kind in
Canada. The senior resident functions independently similar to a junior
radiologist.

Elective training in both rural and urban centres in Alberta, other provinces,
and the United States is encouraged. All residents are also encouraged to
attend a Pathology/Radiology course.  Funding will be provided to attend.

* * *

# Additional Information

### Quick Facts

Interprovincial and international electives are possible. Each request for
training outside the province is reviewed individually and approved by the
Residency Program Committee (RPC), Medical Education Office and PGME.

Ratio of residents to faculty is 1:1

Rural rotations are not mandatory but encouraged. Funding may be available
through the office of Distributed Learning and Rural Initiatives.

### **Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada: Applying competency-
based practices to residency education**

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has introduced competency-based medical education (CBME) in Canadian
postgraduate specialty training and in professional practice in Canada. This
initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](https://www.royalcollege.ca/ca/en/cbd.html), aims to enhance patient
care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving patient
needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education process.

CBD will use time as a framework rather than the basis for progression. It is
not anticipated that the duration of training will change for the majority of
trainees. Residency programs will be broken down into stages, and each stage
will have a series of milestones based on required competencies. These
milestones will create more targeted learning outcomes and involve more
frequent, formative assessments within the clinical workplace to ensure
residents are developing and receiving feedback on the skills they need.



For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

* * *

# FAQ

Please see other sections

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27427?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27427