#  NOSM University - Public Health and Preventive Medicine including Family
Medicine - Sudbury  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Emily Groot  

Address NOSM U Postgraduate Education - PHPM  
935 Ramsey Lake Rd  
c/o Sonya Richard  
SUDBURY, Ontario, P3E 2C6  

Websites of Interest [ NOSM U PHPM Program ](https://www.nosm.ca/phpm/)  
[ NOSM University ](http://www.nosm.ca/postgrad)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: Applications will only be considered through submission
on CaRMS.ca. Please do not apply via email to the Program Coordinator.

Name: Sonya Richard

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: sorichard@nosm.ca

  

Name: Dr. Reed Morrison

Title: Associate Program Director

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Land acknowledgement**

NOSM University respectfully acknowledges that our pan-Northern campus is on
the homelands of First Nations and Métis Peoples. The university buildings we
occupy in Greater Sudbury and Thunder Bay are located on the territory of the
Anishinabek Nation, specifically Atikameksheng and Wahnapitae First Nations
and Fort William First Nation.  

**Virtual Information Sessions**  

Please join us on **Wednesday, October 23, 2024 @ 6:00 PM Eastern Time** for a
virtual information session.  Program leadership, faculty, and residents will
provide an overview of the NOSM U PHPM program. The session will conclude with
a residents-only Q&A session.

**Register using the link below to receive the connection details:**

<https://nosm.webex.com/weblink/register/r7b9f94b3b040f757ddb7f06f164791f1>

Candidates applying to the Sudbury PHPM-FM training stream may be interested
in attending the NOSM U Family Medicine information session.  More details are
available here:
<https://www.nosm.ca/familymedicine/prospectiveresidents/program-information-
sessions/>

**Training streams**

NOSM U PHPM offers training through two separate streams, PHPM-FM in Sudbury
and PHPM in Sault Ste. Marie.  Residents in the Sudbury PHPM-FM training
stream complete two years of clinical training with the [**NOSM U Family
Medicine Residency**](https://www.nosm.ca/familymedicine/) program, leading to
certification with the College of Family Physicians.  Residents in the Sault
Ste. Marie PHPM training stream complete at least one year of clinical
training specifically tailored to public health practice, allowing residents
to dedicate more time to fulfilling the Royal College specialty requirements
in PHPM.

  * A total of two (2) positions are available each year, with one (1) position allocated to each stream respectively.
  * Candidates considering the PHPM-FM stream are encouraged to familiarize themselves with the FM program: [https://www.nosm.ca/familymedicine/](https://www.nosm.ca/familymedicine/).
  * Both streams lead to certification with the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.  
  * Regardless of training pathway, all Royal College-certified PHPM specialists can establish a clinical practice and provide direct patient care (e.g., travel medicine, sexual health). Additionally, PHPM specialists dually certified in family medicine can establish a family medicine clinical practice.

**Relocation and travel**

Social accountability is one of NOSM University’s core values and the
geographical area we serve is vast. In order to best prepare our residents to
practice in a variety of contexts, and particularly northern, rural, and
remote settings, relocation and travel are **required** during training.
Residents receive financial support for travel to and from mandatory
educational activities outside their home bases, and housing support for core
rotations away from their primary residence.

**Vaccination Policy**

Some NOSM U training sites require proof of vaccinations.   You will be
required to provide documentation of vaccination to the appropriate
institution if matched. Failure to provide appropriate documentation may
result in the termination of the contract.

**Competence by Design**

The program's format, curriculum, and learning experiences are subject to
change, pending final approval of the PHPM Competence By Design document suite
from the Royal College of Physician and Surgeons of Canada.



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Applications will only be received and reviewed in English.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

_Canadian Citizenship:_

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided by submitting one of
the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.  Failure
to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.  No
other forms of verification are acceptable.

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of the card must be provided and legible.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Reference letters must be written by preceptors, supervisors, or advisors who
have worked with you. Reference letters written by individuals who have not
directly worked with you will not be considered. References should provide an
assessment of your population health, public health, and medical knowledge;
interpersonal skills; ability to communicate eﬀectively; attitude toward
learning; and your abilities to complete training in PHPM.  If you have
completed any residency training in Canada, a reference letter from your
previous program director is required.

The NOSM U PHPM program accepts Family Medicine Structured Reference Letters,
although reference letters specific to PHPM are preferred.

  
  



Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs):  
There is no action required from you.  
Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to CaRMS on your
behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates:  
You can [submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-)

If your MSPR is in a language other than English or French, you are required
to have the [document translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).



Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

**The personal letter (maximum 1000 words) must address the following
questions:**

  * What led to your interest in PHPM in general, and PHPM training at NOSM University specifically?  
  

  * Where do you see your career in 10 years, and how does the NOSM U PHPM residency program fit into your long-term career plans?  
  

  * If accepted, what do you anticipate will be your greatest challenge in residency and how will you address that challenge? Applicants who have not provided direct patient care within the last year are invited to comment specifically on the challenges lack of recent experience may pose to training.

**_If your  transcript/CV indicates academic difficulty, failure(s), repeat of
a year or any gaps in your education or work history please attach a
supplementary statement to the END of your Personal Letter entitled
"Transcript/CV Addendum" explaining the above._**

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Graduate Transcript (Master/PhD Degree)

Candidates who have completed prior graduate training are required to submit
their transcripts.  Order from the relevant Registrar.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 23, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Virtual interviews only.  
  
First Iteration: Thursday, January 23, 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: **All completed applications are
reviewed by the NOSM U PHPM Residency Program 's Recruitment and Selection
Subcommittee, or their delegates, to determine offers for interview. All
interviews are conducted virtually. Interviews are conducted by a panel which
may include PHPM specialists, FM program representatives, PHPM Residency
Program Committee members, and residents. The interviews are a separate,
independent process from the file review.**  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Applicants will be selected for an interview based on a file review that
considers their:

  * Interest in northern, rural, remote, Indigenous, or Francophone health
  * Understanding of health equity and population health
  * Demonstrated commitment to train and practice in PHPM
  * Academic performance, including transcripts and examination scores (when applicable)
  * Critical thinking and problem solving
  * Communication, including language proficiency testing scores (when applicable)
  * Interpersonal skills and team work
  * Professionalism
  * Attitude towards learning, including ability to engage in reflective practice
  * Ability to identify and address challenges that the candidate may encounter training in a northern, distributed residency program

Final ranking of candidates is based on the combined file review score,
interview score, and program resource context. Interviewees may not all be
ranked.



## Program goals

Passionate about health equity?  Plan to work in lower-resource or northern,
rural, or remote public health contexts?  Train at the first medical
university in Canada, established with an explicit social accountability
mandate.  

The NOSM University PHPM program prepares physicians to practice full-scope
PHPM in northern, rural, remote, and global contexts.  Our residents train at
sites across Northern Ontario, as well as sites outside Northern Ontario that
offer experiences relevant to NOSM U's social accountability mandate.  Our
program offers residents a supportive environment to create sustainable
improvements in health outcomes.



## Selection process goals

Our selection process seeks to identify diverse candidates with a wide variety
of lived experiences committed to excellence in the practice of PHPM in
northern, rural, remote, and global contexts, who have demonstrated:

  * Passion for improving health equity, especially for northern, rural, remote, Francophone, or Indigenous populations
  * A strong academic and scholarly record
  * Competence and interest in PHPM
  * Ability and willingness to work collaboratively



Social accountability informs not only our curriculum, but also our selection
process. We are committed to ethical, equitable, and transparent recruitment
and selection, and look forward to meeting the real you. This includes a
commitment to supporting and retaining IMGs in PHPM training and practice.

As a medical university with a social accountability mandate to meet the needs
and the diversity of the populations of Northern Ontario, candidates best
suited to the NOSM U PHPM are those who can adapt and thrive in a hands-on,
distributed residency program that requires ﬂexibility and regular travel away
from their primary location of residence. Residents will be required to
relocate one or more times during their training.



## File review process

Review team composition : The file review team is comprised of program
faculty, other PHPM specialists, and residents, and may include family
medicine faculty.  

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Interest in PHPM, scholarly activity, recency and relevancy of clinical experiences, and professional accomplishments.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  PHPM elective(s) and a diverse range of non-PHPM electives relevant PHPM; electives in northern, rural, or remote contexts are a strong asset.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Candidates who have written the NAC and/or MCCQE1 are required to submit their scores, and these scores will be considered as part of the file review process. Language proficiency testing scores will also be considered as part of the file review process if submitted by a candidate. The NOSM U PHPM Program does not use specific exam score cut-offs, but candidates applying to the PHPM-FM stream are required to meet all FM examination requirements.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Experiences relevant to PHPM or northern, rural, and remote health are considered an asset. The NOSM U PHPM program acknowledges and takes into consideration that extra-curricular activities may not be accessible to students with other commitments outside school (e.g., caregiving).   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of effective conflict management skills is required. Evidence of one or more leadership roles is considered an asset.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evidence of professional behaviour is required. Evidence of academic excellence and strong interpersonal skills are considered assets. Any academic, personal, or professionalism concerns noted in the MSPR must be addressed by the candidate in their personal letter.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Ability to succinctly and coherently address the items listed under “Personal Letter” above.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive assessment of your population health, public health, and medical knowledge; interpersonal skills; ability to communicate eﬀectively; attitude toward learning; and your abilities to complete training in PHPM-FM. Reference letters written by individuals who have not worked directly with the applicant will not be considered. If you have completed any residency training in Canada, a reference letter from your previous program director is required.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Scholarly activity relevant to PHPM and interest in participating in future scholarly activity are considered assets.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Strength of academic record   
Other file component(s) |  Transcript/CV Addendum:   
  
If any part of your application indicates academic difficulty, failure(s),
repeat of a year or any gaps in your education or work history, a
supplementary statement at the END of your Personal Letter is required. Please
entitle your statement as “Transcript/CV Addendum”, explaining the above.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Clearly describes actions and behaviours indicative of mature and effective collaboration.   
Collegiality |  All interactions with the program demonstrate collegiality. Clearly describes cooperative actions and behaviours with colleagues from one or more professions.   
Communication skills |  Delivers clear, succinct responses in all communications with the program. Directly address interview questions. Provides examples of applying communication skills to resolve conflict.   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrates commitment to social accountability and health equity.   
Interest in the discipline |  Articulates population health strategies, and differentiates a population health approach from an individual patient care approach. Articulates how clinical training will support their future public health practice.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrates interest in northern, rural, or remote settings. Candidate’s career goals align with those of the NOSM U PHPM training program.   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrates self-reflective leadership, meaningfully reflecting on personal leadership style.   
Professionalism |  Demonstrates compassion, insight, honesty, and respect for diversity during all interactions with the program. Meaningfully reflects on ability to manage conflict.   
Scholarly activities |  We do not formally evaluate this component during the interview.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  In keeping with the CanMEDS roles, please note that any solicited or
unsolicited concerns regarding unethical or unprofessional conduct, including
but not limited to interactions with NOSM U personnel, may be taken into
consideration by the program in their selection process and ranking decisions.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Health equity and social accountability are foundational to the NOSM U PHPM
program. Our program offers a comprehensive curriculum that integrates all the
CanMEDS roles, while focusing on the knowledge and skills required to practice
in northern, rural, and remote contexts, in Canada and around the world.
Program highlights include:

  * Outstanding program coordination and wellness support
  * Excellent examination preparation
  * Diverse, compassionate resident colleagues
  * Social accountability and health equity focus
  * Easy access to urban amenities and outdoor activities across beautiful Northern Ontario.

Key components of the five-year NOSM U PHPM residency program include:

  * Weekly academic half-days, regular academic full-days, and biannual in-person learning events
  * A minimum of 12 months of clinical training
  * A minimum of 2 semesters of graduate training
  * A minimum of 18 months of PHPM training
  * A scholarly project

During their training, NOSM U PHPM-FM residents have the opportunity to
complete graduate training, certification with the College of Family
Physicians of Canada, and certification with the Royal College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Canada.  Residents are well-supported throughout their
training, with financial support for travel to and from mandatory educational
activities outside their home bases, housing support for core rotations away
from primary residence, and funding for research, professional development,
and conferences.

**Please visit our website for more information:
[https://www.nosm.ca/phpm/](https://www.nosm.ca/phpm/).**



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The five-year NOSM U PHPM residency training program follows the Royal College
Specialty Training Requirements, and ensures residents meet the Royal College
Objectives of Training.  Key components of the NOSM U PHPM-FM
curriculum—clinical training, academic training, and PHPM training—are
summarized below.

**Clinical training**

Residents in the PHPM-FM stream complete 24 months of clinical training with
the [NOSM U Family Medicine Residency](https://www.nosm.ca/familymedicine/)
program, leading to certification with the College of Family Physicians.  

Residents in the PHPM stream complete at least 12 months of clinical training.
In consultation with the program director, residents may choose to complete up
to an additional 12 months of clinical electives relevant to public health.



**Academic training**

NOSM U PHPM residents participate in weekly academic half-days (AHDs), regular
academic full-days, and biannual in-person learning events.  Regular academic
activities include Discussion of the Week (DOW) and Knowledge & Skills
sessions, journal clubs, joint academic rounds with other PHPM residency
programs, practice OSCEs, and practice written examinations.  Residents
completing clinical rotations are expected to participate in the DOW (but can
attend more of the AHD if other duties allow); senior residents attend the
whole AHD.

NOSM U PHPM residents must complete a minimum of two semesters of graduate
training, and residents in the PHPM-FM stream can complete up to one year of
graduate training.  Most residents choose to complete a Master of Public
Health during their training.  Residents in the PHPM-FM stream can complete up
to one year of graduate training. Residents who are not completing
certification in family medicine may spend up to two years in graduate
training. Residents work closely with the program director to select a
Canadian or international university program that meets their interests and
the Royal College requirements.  Residents with previous graduate training may
be credited, resulting in additional elective time or a reduction in training
time.

**Public health and preventive medicine training**

NOSM U PHPM residents complete 6 core PHPM field rotations:

  * [Public Health Systems and Practice](https://nosm.sharepoint.com/org/pge/_layouts/15/guestaccess.aspx?docid=0009b0d482f454485a58a96b33ce90df0&authkey=AbyjFWktBbBdCMfmG02Kej4&e=x47T51)
  * [Communicable Disease](https://nosm.sharepoint.com/org/pge/_layouts/15/guestaccess.aspx?docid=03d9250deaf4c4d5cbc9efbcc16bf6361&authkey=ATeLDHR4l1jBDTYzuThCNJc&e=YjCVFV)
  * [Environmental Health](https://nosm.sharepoint.com/org/pge/_layouts/15/guestaccess.aspx?docid=063c4a9af32bd4c619ba83ac489bcb8c2&authkey=AYzqP6c9xI83khGSFObhazs&e=ILxhhq)
  * [Health Policy and Planning](https://nosm.sharepoint.com/org/pge/_layouts/15/guestaccess.aspx?docid=0805f3d6b30994c0cbdd81ab1394cbb94&authkey=ASoh5nx0yKVem5p_9ZcMp44&e=4o60ip)
  * [Health Promotion, Chronic Disease Prevention, and Injury Prevention](https://nosm.sharepoint.com/org/pge/_layouts/15/guestaccess.aspx?docid=09cb17e4429f84f59ac2d1511236f2ad6&authkey=Af0xW5hiRH_aC75mYA0mIQI&e=TnxEDb)
  * [Leadership and Management](https://nosm.sharepoint.com/org/pge/_layouts/15/guestaccess.aspx?docid=0fa05928de4f84881b14914c1ddb5c6c0&authkey=AZraUyQSVBNEWFLxo9PDYaU&e=bCDAkh)

NOSM U PHPM residents complete the majority of core rotations within NOSM U’s
geographical service area in Northern Ontario, and complete all their core
rotations at sites with training experiences relevant to NOSM U’s social
accountability mandate.  Residents are required to live and work in multiple
communities.

NOSM U PHPM residents pursue a wide variety of PHPM electives at the local,
provincial, national, and international level.  Some examples include:

  * Office of the Chief Coroner of Ontario
  * Public Health Agency of Canada
  * Sioux Lookout First Nations Health Authority
  * Government of Nunavut
  * University of Global Health Equity in Butaro, Rwanda

* * *

# Training Sites

Our residents train at sites across Northern Ontario—for example, in Thunder
Bay, Sioux Lookout, or Richard’s Landing—as well as sites outside Northern
Ontario that offer experiences relevant to NOSM U’s social accountability
mandate, including provincial and federal agencies.

NOSM U PHPM-FM residents are based in Sudbury, on the territory of
Atikameksheng and Wahnapitae First Nations, with occasional travel and
relocation required across Ontario. Sudbury is a city of almost 170,000
people, best known for mining, beautiful lakes, and blueberries. Sudbury
offers excellent restaurants, hiking trails, and French language
opportunities. Residents complete the majority of their clinical training at
Health Sciences North and Sudbury-based clinics, and many of their public
health field placements at Public Health Sudbury & Districts.

NOSM U PHPM residents are based in Sault Ste. Marie, on the territory of
Garden River and Batchewana First Nations, with occasional travel and
relocation required across Ontario. Sault Ste. Marie is a city of just over
70,000 located on the St. Mary’s River, directly across the international
border from Michigan.  Sault Ste. Marie offers easy access to both Lake
Superior and Lake Huron, and what locals believe to be the best pizza in the
world. Residents complete the majority of their clinical training at Sault
Area Hospital and Sault-based clinics, and many of their public health field
placements at Algoma Public Health.



* * *

# Additional Information

NOSM U PHPM residents typically select the location of their core field
placements, but the residency program reserves the right to determine a
resident’s training sites.

Public transportation options are limited in parts of Northern Ontario. NOSM U
PHPM residents are strongly encouraged to have a valid Ontario driver’s
license and access to a vehicle.

**To learn more about Northern Ontario, please visit the[ Wider Campus of NOSM
University](https://www.nosm.ca/our-community/wider-campus-of-the-northern-
ontario-school-of-medicine/) webpage.**



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27009?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27009