#  University of Calgary - Internal Medicine - Calgary  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 26, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 6

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Maria Bacchus  

Address Core Internal Medicine  
Foothills Medical Centre  
Room 911, 9th Floor, North Tower  
1403 - 29th Street NW Calgary AB T2N 2T9 , Alberta, T2N 2T9  

(403) 944-2146

Websites of Interest [ University of Calgary core IM website
](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/departments/medicine/residents/imrp)  
[ PGME Calgary ](http://cumming.ucalgary.ca/pgme/)  
[ Dept of Medicine Calgary ](https://www.departmentofmedicine.com/)  
[ Professional Association of Residents of Alberta ](http://www.para-ab.ca/)  
[ City of Calgary ](http://www.calgary.ca)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Ms. Trudi Jersak

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: trudi.jersak@ahs.ca

Phone: 403-944-2146

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Please read the following information carefully:**

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) who wish to compete for postgraduate
medical training positions in Alberta are eligible to apply to IMG positions
at the University of Calgary, provided they have applied to and been assessed
as eligible by the Alberta International Medical Graduate Program (AIMG)
Program.

The AIMG Program office determines eligibility to participate in the match
process and is only valid for the specified match year. Please visit the AIMG
Program website (www.aimg.ca) for details on deadlines, eligibility criteria
and the application process.

All matched applicants must successfully complete a minimum 6-week Externship
before they can proceed to residency training. The six weeks are comprised of
a mandatory 2-week AIMG Orientation followed by a 4-week clinical rotation on
the MTU. IMRP reserves the right to extend the clinical MTU rotation by
4-weeks if more time for assessment is deemed necessary. Applicants must be
available to start Externship on the dates specified by the AIMG office. A
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA) license is mandatory for
this component.

The AIMG Program office will provide information on this process to successful
applicants. All matched applicants must meet the licensing criteria for
registration with the CPSA for postgraduate education. Please review the
requirements at www.cpsa.ab.ca. Any delays in providing the required
documentation to the CPSA may result in a delay in licensure and a delay in
the start of Externship and postgraduate training.

Residency programs determine the final outcome of Externship and the decision
is final with no appeal process.

\--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Core Internal Medicine Residency Training Program at the University of
Calgary transitioned to competency-based medical education (CBME) in July 2019
with all trainees entering the program after this date affiliated with
[Competence by Design (CBD)](https://www.royalcollege.ca/en/standards-and-
accreditation/competence-by-design.html), which aims to enhance patient care
by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving patient
needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education process.

CBD uses time as a framework for competency assessment rather than the basis
for progression. It is not anticipated that the duration of training will
change for the majority of trainees. Residency training is broken down into
[stages](https://canmeds.royalcollege.ca/en/milestones), and each stage will
have a series of entrustable professional activities (EPAs) and milestones
based on the required competencies. These EPAs and milestones improve learning
outcomes and will involve more frequent, formative assessments within the
clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving feedback
on the skills they need.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Candidates who did not graduate from a medical school accredited by LCME must
apply through the Alberta International Medical Graduate Program (AIMG).
Canadian students training in US Osteopathic Medical schools accredited by the
Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation (COCA) are eligible to apply
for the 2nd iteration via the AIMG program and must meet all AIMG
requirements.

We do not accept Visa sponsored trainees in our program. For policies and
procedures, such as deadlines, eligibility criteria and the application
process, please refer to the Alberta International Medical Graduate (AIMG)
website http://aimg.ca

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

Shared through physiciansapply.ca to your CaRMS application.

You must include the detailed report and not just the grades alone. It must
also include the supplemental feedback report given to the applicant with
their score. Applicants who fail to submit the supplemental feedback report
for the MCCQE examinations will NOT be considered further.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report
* NAC examination - Statement of results

Shared through physiciansapply.ca to your CaRMS application.

You must include the detailed report and not just the grades alone.

It must also include the supplemental feedback report given to the applicant
with their score. Applicants who fail to submit the supplemental feedback
report for the NAC examination will NOT be considered further.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

The AFMC statement regarding the use of reference documents for the 2025 R1
match states:

1\. Reference documents from the institution to where the applicant is
applying is not a criterion for file review nor ultimately, for ranking.

2\. There is no requirement to obtain a discipline-specific reference document
for the discipline to which the applicant is applying.

3\. Each program may request a maximum of three (3) reference documents from
an applicant.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  700

  

Your personal letter should not exceed 700 words. Letters more than 700 words
will not be reviewed.

_**In your personal letter, please share  with us how your personal values
align with being an Internist, what most important qualities you possess that
will help you to be successful in your career, and what things you will need
to work on to get there. Please do not share any patient-identifying
information.**_

Custom Résumé / CV

Please include all of your clinical experiences in the past 5 years in great
detail.

Our program values the following attributes that can be communicated in a
Curriculum Vitae:

**Collaboration Skills** : the applicant has advanced skills in working with
others in a group environment in high stakes or high level situations through
any of the following experiences – volunteering, work, sports, arts or
family/caregiving experiences. Some examples of these are: manager of a fast-
food restaurant, on a medical school executive committee or high stakes
committee, worked as an allied health professional, performed at a high level
in sports or arts, primary caregiver for a loved one prior or during medical
school.

**Scholar – Research**. some examples: advanced degrees and research
activities prior and during medical school

**Scholar – Teaching -** some examples: multiple teaching roles during medical
school, design/development/delivery of educational materials, extensive
commitment to teaching prior to medical school or during medical school

**Health Advocate -** some examples: shows outstanding commitment to care
issues of marginalized populations, has volunteer or work experience working
with marginalized populations, or on medical student/physician health

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

Include a copy of your most important scholarly work.  This may be a published
manuscript, abstract, poster, or similar work.

Alberta IMG Clinical Assessment Placement

Candidates are required to submit their CAP results (if completed within the
past two years) through their CaRMS portal for review and verification.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Photos are not used during the file review process. Photos are used for
identification during the interview once they have been released by CaRMS.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Files are reviewed and scored by the Internal Medicine Program Director and
one of the four Internal Medicine Lead Medical Residents. Based on a
quantitative scoring process, an interview list is generated.  The file review
contributes 50% and each of two interviews (one with a Faculty member and one
with a current resident) contribute 25% to the final score. The final rank
order and cut-offs are determined by the Resident Program Committee. We
typically have 90 -115 AIMG applicants and we typically interview 20-25
candidates for six positions.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 29, 2025
  * February 5, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews are scheduled for :  
  
Wednesday, January 29, 2025  
  
Wednesday, February 5, 2025  
  
All interviews will be virtual via Zoom. Details will be sent in advance to
those who accept interviews regarding secure log-in information.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: CaRMS online will be updated and
offers to interview will be made on Friday, January 10, 2025 on or before
10:00 am MST.  
  

Core Internal Medicine programs across the country use an external website for
booking CaRMS interviews. This system will open for viewing on January 10,
2025 at 12:00 pm MST. You will receive an email shortly before that with your
secure log in and password information.  
  

The system will officially open to book interviews on Monday January 13, 2025
at 10:00 am MST.  
  

Each applicant will have two personal interviews, one with a faculty member
and another interview with a current Internal Medicine resident.  
  

During each interview day our Program Director, Dr. Paul Gibson and our Lead
Medical Residents will host virtual information sessions and socials for the
applicants.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The Program considers personal letters, letters of reference, academic
performance during medical school, your CV and interviews.

We place a high value on a positive attitude, willingness to learn, readiness
to help others, integrity, respect for diversity, professionalism and
communication skills. We are most interested in applicants who will thrive in
our program and enrich our community. We look for candidates who have
demonstrated interest in internal medicine through their past experiences.

## Program goals

Overall Goal of the Residency Program: Upon completion of our Program,
residents will be competent specialists in Internal Medicine and will be able
to fulﬁll a consultant's role in the specialty. Residents must acquire
proﬁciency in the theoretical basis of the specialty, including its
foundations in basic medical sciences and research. A basic understanding of
quality assurance and patient safety is one of the goals of the training
program. A focus of the program is that of creating physicians who operate
under the principles of empathy and compassion for their patients.

Safe, supported learning environments and physician wellness is important to
us and is something we as a program strive for.

The overall aim of this physician training is to instill knowledge,
understanding, skills and attitudes all of which result in the competencies
for lifetime practice as a physician in adult Internal Medicine. Residents
must demonstrate the requisite knowledge, skills, and attitudes for eﬀective
patient-centered care and service to a diverse population. In all aspects of
specialist practice, the graduate must be able to address issues of gender,
sexual orientation, age, culture, ethnicity, culture and ethinicity in a
competent professional manner.

**Our Mission, Vision, and Core Principles**

Our Mission: To be widely recognized as an outstanding training program in
Internal Medicine with a focus on teaching, health and wellness, innovation,
creating technologies and disseminating knowledge.

Our Vision: Teaching the next generation of Internal Medicine physicians how
to be competent and well-rounded physicians.

Our Core Principles: Collaboration - Innovation - Excellence - Patient Care -
Scholarship - Education Leadership - Technology - Resident Wellness

## Selection process goals

Successful applicants must have excellent clinical skills and a strong
knowledge base. They must value collaboration and also be strong
communicators. They must have a passion for patient care and display kindness
and empathy. Successful applicants not only have an excellent work-ethic, but
must also value their peers and be able to assist when needed. Successful
applicants must display professional behaviour at all times and be open to
improve on identified areas of weakness.

## File review process

Review team composition : The Program Director will review all files and the
four IMRP Lead Medical Residents will divide and review files  
  
We have a file review rubric that addresses collaboration, collegiality,
health advocacy, an interest in the discipline, professionalism and scholarly
activities.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  
We are generally able to interview 20-25 applicants.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Collaboration, scholar in research and teaching, health advocacy should be noted.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Elective and Observership experiences across the country have been more difficult to obtain, and we will not be considering these experiences in file review to ensure the file review is fair and equitable for all candidates   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Scores are evaluated in the file review and details should be sent in completion. Shared through physiciansapply.ca to your CaRMS application. Ensure that the DETAILED report (instead of grades alone) is submitted and this must include the supplemental feedback report. If the supplemental feedback report is NOT received this may impact the file score and result in a missed interview opportunity.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Collaboration, scholar (research and teaching), health advocacy and volunteering   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership experiences are an asset.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Areas of academic difficulty should be explained in the CV, as a separate note at the end of the CV.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  A letter than provides evidence of communication skills and growth mindset is required.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Letters of reference that provide evidence of collaboration, medical expert, professionalism, health advocacy and communication skills are an asset. All letters should have been written in the past 18 months.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Participation in a research or scholarly project, even if not completed, is an asset.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Medical school transcripts are required. Areas of academic difficulty should be explained in the CV.   
Other file component(s) |  We fully appreciate observerships may have been difficult to obtain, so we hope you have had an opportunity to attend our pre-CaRMS Q&A;'s so we can showcase our program and answer any questions you may have.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We appreciate many candidates have not been able to
secure an observership in Calgary, and we will not be considering these
experiences in file review to ensure file review is fair and equitable for all
candidates.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We appreciate many candidates have not been able to secure an observership in
Calgary, and we will not be considering these experiences in file review to
ensure file review is fair and equitable for all candidates.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due
to weather, technology failure or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We value collaboration and we do ask about this quality. Collaboration with physicians and allied healthcare team members is a core value of the Internal Medicine Residency Program (IMRP). Any evidence of a lack of ability to recognize and resolve diﬀerences or to work collaboratively with physician or non-physician team members is not compatible with a successful application to the IMRP.   
Collegiality |  We value collegiality and we do ask about this quality and examples that display this. Evidence that the applicant has promoted a culture that identiﬁes, supports and/or responds to colleagues in need is considered an asset.   
Communication skills |  Communication during the interview as well as examples that exemplify this are explored. The ability to manage diﬀerences with patients, other physicians, or allied health care members is an asset. Demonstration of an understanding of culturally safe care and respect for diﬀerence is an asset.   
Health advocacy |  An understanding of systemic barriers to healthcare for patients, especially patients who experience marginalization, is required for successful applicants to the IMRP. Evidence of explicit bias against people who experience marginalization is not compatible with acceptance to the IMRP.   
Interest in the discipline |  We do not evaluate this during the interview component.   
Interest in the program |  We do not evaluate this during the interview component.   
Leadership skills |  Answers provided and past examples are explored to assess this dimension.   
Professionalism |  Evidence of a lack of professionalism is not compatible with admission to the IMRP. Evidence of an inability to respond to or incorporate feedback to improve their performance is not compatible with successful application to the IMRP.   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this during the interview component   
Other interview component(s) |  During the interview, the trainee must demonstrate good listening skills and be engaged throughout.  
Evidence the candidate is able to think through his/her good qualities and
areas for improvement (above and beyond just honesty) will be explored.  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**_The strength of our Program is in our People!  _**

 We are very proud of our residents, faculty and administrative staff.
Teamwork and inspiring people to do their best are core values of the program.

 There are many excellent aspects about our program, below are some of the
highlights:

  1. We have made great investments in simulation equipment and have expertise in simulation based training at all sites with a RCPSC accredited Simulation Program.
  2. We have an extremely strong ultrasound (POCUS) and procedural skills program in our residency program.
  3. We have an accredited SIMulation program and trainees have exposure throughout their training.
  4. We have a well established mentorship program in our Department and our mentorship groups meet quarterly
  5. We have excellent research opportunities in the Department and Faculty of Medicine
  6. The University PGME Office has a Vacation Policy which clearly defines the process for vacation requests which provides more flexibility for residents to book time away

**Competency-based Medical Education (CBME) or Competence by Design (CBD)**

Competency-based Medical Education is a national Royal College educational
initiative. The core internal medicine residency programs across Canada
formally adopted this initiative in July 2019. We provide all residents with
an Academic Advisor, as this has been identified as a valuable and meaningful
relationship for the residents.

All trainees in our program are expected to have one or two face-to-face
assessments of Entrustable Professional Activities (EPAs) completed every week
and have been asked to complete 6 EPAs per 4-week block. We use the RCPSC
e-portfolio portal to track EPAs in Calgary. A formal Competence Committee
meets regularly and reviews the progress of the trainees - under the direction
of the program's CBD Lead and Competence Committee chair, Dr. Darren Burback.

**Educational support**

We are pleased to be able to support our trainees in providing educational
resource material. This has included a three-year New England Journal of
Medicine (NEJM) Knowledge+ as well as NEJM 360 subscriptions for all trainees
in our program. Trainees are also provided with annual financial support to
attend a conference, and may apply for additional funds from the PGME office.
These funds may also be used for academic subscriptions.

**Thank you for your interest in the Calgary Internal Medicine program!**



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 3 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Program Overview**

Please see our Program website: <https://live-
cumming.ucalgary.ca/departments/medicine/residents/imrp>

The Calgary Internal Medicine Program adheres to the Royal College Specialty
Training requirements and was fully accredited at our last external College
review.

Each PGY year is composed of thirteen 4-week blocks. The first year includes 6
blocks on the Medical Teaching Units (MTU) located at Foothills Hospital,
Peter Lougheed Hospital, Rockyview General Hospital, and/or South Health
Campus.  Trainees are not assigned to one specific site. and have the
opportunity of exploring all adult training sites. The balance of the year
includes subspecialty rotations including one block of Coronary Care Medicine,
Geriatrics and Nephrology. The remaining blocks are scheduled from the other
subspecialties and may include Dermatology, Endocrinology & Metabolism,
Gastroenterology, Hematology, Infectious Diseases, Medical Oncology,
Neurology, Palliative Care, Respiratory Medicine and Rheumatology. Residents
are given an opportunity after the match to identify and rank their areas of
interest that are considered when the program is preparing the schedules.

During the second and third 'senior' years, residents complete six rotations
as Senior Medical Residents. The balance of the years includes subspecialties,
critical care, coronary care, electives (max three over the core 3 years) and
research electives (max three over the core 3 years). One community GIM
rotation is mandatory and is offered in either Grande Prairie, Lethbridge, Red
Deer, Medicine Hat and at the Rockyview General Hospital (RGH). The RGH
_community_  rotation is reserved for those unable to leave Calgary for
personal reasons. Senior residents participate in a rotation draft (ran like a
hockey or football draft) where you are able to have some autonomy over your
schedule for subspecialties and electives while ensuring mandatory rotations
are filled.

Academic Half-day (AHD) is protected on Wednesday afternoons, and includes
lectures, small group learning, simulation based and procedural training and
protected time for independent scholarly activity. In Calgary, we have adopted
a hybrid model of virtual and in-person learning sessions during the Academic
Half Day. Simulation, Procedure, PBL and OSCES are in-person, while most
lectures continue to be held virtually. PGY 3's have protected study time
during their AHD to allow for RCPSC exam preparation.

Resident Research Day, our Annual Resident Retreat, Charitable Half Day and
Journal Clubs are among our special academic activities. Large events such as
the annual Welcome BBQ and Fall Awards Dinner are organized by IMRP and the
Department of Medicine, but there are also many resident driven events
initiated by the IMRP Wellness Committee like hiking, biking, skiing, snow-
shoeing, pumpkin carving, pub nights etc.



* * *

# Training Sites

# Geographical Sites of Training

### **Foothills Medical Centre (FMC)**

Number of beds: 1093 | Number of emergency visits/year: 77,000+

The Foothills Medical Centre (FMC) is a major referral centre for southern
Alberta and south-eastern British Columbia. It functions predominantly at
secondary and tertiary levels but community and family physicians play an
important role. The FMC includes the Foothills Hospital , the Tom Baker Cancer
Centre (TBCC), the Arthur Child Comprehensive Cancer Center, which is opening
the fall of 2024. The Grace Women's Health Centre, McCaig Tower, Teaching-
Research-Wellness Centre, and the Health Sciences Centre (HSC) which houses
the Cumming School of Medicine at the University of Calgary. It has a 40 bed
ICU and an 22 bed CVICU with post CV Surgery and post PCI areas.  There is a
14 bed stroke assessment and treatment unit. It has a very active hospitalist
service which assists greatly with care of inpatients.

### **Peter Lougheed Centre (PLC)**

Number of beds: 600 and number of emergency visits/year: 72,000+

The Peter Lougheed Centre (PLC) provides a blend of primary, secondary and
tertiary levels of patient care and learning experiences. It also houses a
number of specialized programs such as Therapeutic Endoscopy, Cardiac
Rehabilitation, and Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography.   This
site was recently expanded with new medical teaching unit and general medical
units. The PLC has a 22 bed ICU and a highly functional CCU.

### **Rockyview General Hospital (RGH)**

Number of beds: 650 and number of emergency visits/year: 80,000+

The Rockyview General Hospital (RGH) provides a multidisciplinary PGY-1 year
for many residency programs at the University of Calgary. Within Medicine,
educational experiences include rotations in Respirology, Rheumatology,
Neurology and General Internal Medicine (GIM), incorporating ward inpatient
services, consultation services and ambulatory clinics.  RGH is the Calgary
centre of Urological and Ophthalmological services. The RGH is located on the
Glenmore Reservoir and easily accessible by bike or running trails. There is a
17 bed ICU with a 7 bed CCU.

### **South Health Campus (SHC)**

Number of beds: 323 with capacity for 642 (not all filled but capacity exists)
and number of emergency visits/year: 70,000+

The South Health Campus (SHC) is the newest of the four adult hospitals.
Innovations at this campus include a YMCA complete with a Wellness Kitchen to
help you maintain important work-life balance.

### **Outpatient Clinic Experiences**

Outpatient Clinics experiences occur at each of the major hospital sites as
well as the **Richmond Road Diagnostic and Treatment Centre**.  Some clinics
occur in the community settings in Calgary as well as in Grande Prairie,
Lethbridge, Yellowknife, as well as in underserviced areas.

The Province of Alberta has made large investments in tele-education and tele-
health technologies.  For example, each of the adult sites has computerized
patient care systems wherein all diagnostic imaging (and interpretations) as
well as laboratory results are available for viewing on-line.

The University of Calgary has numerous on-line journals. In addition, the
University is part of the Canadian National Site Licensing Project (CNSLP).
All online journals, MD consult, as well as the CNSLP can be accessed through
the Internet at any of the teaching sites free of charge. There is a tutorial
on accessing electronic journals during the first week to ensure all the
residents are familiar with this source of information.

**Faculty**

The Internal Medicine Residency Program draws upon faculty from the
Departments of Medicine, Cardiac Sciences, Critical Care Medicine, and
Clinical Neurosciences.  We strive to provide the highest quality of medical
education.  The Office of Faculty Development provides our faculty with many
opportunities to develop and enhance their skills as medical educators.  

The Department of Medicine alone has approximately 450 teaching faculty which
is in addition to those in Cardiology, Critical Care, and Clinical
Neurosciences.  The University of Calgary Faculty of Medicine offers Royal
College accredited residency programs in nearly all medical subspecialties
including: Cardiology, Critical Care Medicine, Endocrinology and Metabolism,
Gastroenterology, General Internal Medicine, Geriatrics, Hematology,
Infectious Diseases, Palliative Medicine, Nephrology, Medical Oncology,
Respirology, Rheumatology and Toxicology and Clinical Pharmacology.  

The Program adheres to the Specialty Training Requirements described by the
Royal College.  General Internal Medicine experiences include those on medical
teaching units, consultation, and outpatient clinics.  Subspecialties are well
represented and include both inpatient and outpatient clinic experiences.  

We have purchased Ultrasound machines and have developed a Procedural
Certification Program for the use of ultrasound in Internal Medicine.  The
Program has invested heavily in simulation equipment and is proud to have
numerous patient simulators at three of the training hospitals.

The Senior Medical Resident Night Float and Emerg Liason rotation was
established with a view to reduce resident fatigue, improve patient safety and
quality of care, and provide a better learning experience on the Medical
Teaching Units. Senior residents on the teaching teams carry out 12 hour call
shifts, as opposed to 26 hours shifts.

The Program is well supported with one Program Director, three Associate
Program Directors, four Assistant Program Directors, five Administrative
Assistants, and the tremendous support of the Chair of the Department of
Medicine.  Academic Half-day is protected for all residents on medical
rotations and we place a high value on resident well-being.

The Internal Medicine Residency Program is pleased to provide $500 of
conference funding each academic year for each resident. The conference
funding can be used for subscriptions in lieu of reimbursement of attending a
conference. Additional funding may be available when applied for through the
Post Graduate Medical Education Office (for residents presenting their
research at academic meetings and conferences).

The City of Calgary has a population of 1.5 million and offers a wide range of
recreational and cultural facilities that include theatres, an amazing
Philharmonic Orchestra, opera, ballet, and frequent concerts and performances
by internationally renowned artists. Calgary has an impressive restaurant and
dining scene, with restaurants like Major Tom, River Cafe, Lonely Mouth Bar,
DOP and many others that have been voted among the best in Canada.

Calgary is friendly, culturally diverse and is surrounded by natural beauty.
There is something for everybody - art galleries, festivals and markets;
fantastic shopping, an excellent zoo, professional sports like NHL, CFL,
Soccer and Lacrosse and for 10 days each year we host the Calgary Exhibition
and Stampede. The city has an extensive system of parks, golf courses and
cycling paths and with the Rocky Mountains only an hour away, it is easy to
escape for a day of downhill or cross country skiing, hiking, climbing,
canoeing and kayaking. Calgary has the most hours of sun of any city in
Canada, we enjoy chinooks in the winter and our proximity to the Rockies make
our city a wonderful place to live.

The program's social calendar includes a variety of academic and wellness
events including, but is not limited to a Welcome BBQ, Annual Fall Awards
Dinner, Resident Research Day and a Resident Retreat.

* * *

# Additional Information

The program has a collegial philosophy that is mutually supportive. Residents
participate actively in the success and evolution of the program in a variety
of ways including: elected resident representatives to the Residency Program
Committee, involvement in the numerous subcommittees (MTU, Curriculum,
Research, Wellness and CBME), regular Town Hall meetings and a yearly
educational/wellness retreat. There is an "open door" approach that
characterizes the faculty and the program administrative staff.

We believe our two greatest strengths have been the dedication of our teaching
faculty as well as the tremendous contributions and hard work of our trainees.

 Further Information:

Applicants are welcome to email the IMRP Administrative Team Lead, Stacey
Dickinson (stacey.dickinson@ahs.ca), Program Administrator, Trudi Jersak
(trudi.jersak@ahs.ca) or the Lead Medical Residents (calgarychiefs@gmail.com)
regarding specific questions.

The Professional Association of Residents of Alberta (PARA) website includes a
copy of the current resident contract.  Applicants are encouraged to review
this document.

We wish every applicant the very best and look forward to receiving your
materials and hopefully meeting with you.



* * *

# FAQ

For the 2025 CaRMS match we will match up to 6 Alberta International Medical
Graduate (AIMG) applicants.



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27153?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27153