#  McMaster University - Diagnostic Radiology - Hamilton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 27, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Yoan Kagoma  

Address Department of Radiology  
Room 2S23  
1200 Main Street West  
Hamilton, Ontario L8N 3Z5 , Ontario, L8N 3Z5  

(905) 521-2100 ext. 75294

(905) 521-1390

Websites of Interest [ Department of Radiology
](https://radiology.mcmaster.ca/education/postgraduate/residency/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Yoan Kagoma

Title: Program Director

Email: radpd@mcmaster.ca

  

Name: Cheney Matteliano

Title: Program Assistant

Email: radpa@mcmaster.ca

Phone: (905) 521-2100, ext. 75294

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/).  It is important to review the
requirements carefully.

To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit:
<https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/>

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

**Additional criteria for IMGs:**

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Excellent exposure to all imaging modalities

Friendly, supportive, training environment

Good staff/resident ratio

Strong, close-knit, collegial group of residents

Keen and involved faculty, with strong teaching interests

Excellent opportunity for "hands-on" interventional training

Simulation procedural workshops (senior and junior sessions), yearly

MRI, CT and US at all four sites

Exposure to PACS environment at all sites

High volume of diverse disease and varying pathology in Hamilton Hospitals

Excellent medical physics course, twice annually

Keen, enthusiastic program director & supportive resident education committee

Excellent Royal College Exam Pass track record

McMaster University leader in evidence-based medicine

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site.**

**CELPIP:  **must have minimum score of 9 in each of the four skills in the
same sitting

**IELTS ACADEMIC:  **must have minimum score of 7.0 in each of the four skills
in the same sitting

**Letter of language proficiency** is a letter from your Dean attesting that
your medical school program of instruction was completed solely in English or
French.

**OET MEDICINE** : must have minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in
the same sitting

**TOEFL IBT:  **must have minimum score of 93 with a minimum score of 24 on
the speaking section. The **TOEFL iBT Home Edition**  will be accepted as a
substitute for the TOEFL iBT.

Examinations

Required

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

The National Assessment Collaboration (NAC) Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE) is mandatory for all IMGs.** ** A pass result is required on the NAC OSCE. The results are required by the file review opening date. For more information click on the following link [National Assessment Collaboration | Medical Council of Canada](http://mcc.ca/examinations/nac-overview/)

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report
* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

For the 2023 CaRMS match IMGs must have written and passed the Medical Council
of Canada Qualifying Examination Part 1 ([MCCQE1](https://mcc.ca/)). Exam
results must be provided by the File Review Opening Date.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Please give some thought to your selection of referee. They should know you
well and be in a position to comment on your clinical skills, knowledge and
interpersonal skills. They should be able to compare your performance to the
expected standard for your level, or other students they have worked with. It
is helpful if they can comment on your interest in diagnostic radiology.
References from Canadian referees are encouraged. A reference letter from a
Radiologist is not mandatory. Reference letters must be dated within the last
1 year. Undated reference letters will not be accepted.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

All applicant photos are masked until the National Interview period begins.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter is required. Please provide a brief autobiographical sketch,
summarizing your personal background, achievements/interests and
characteristics you think would make you desirable as a candidate for our
program. In your letter, indicate why you wish to pursue a career in
radiology, and why McMaster University and our Radiology program appeal to
you.

Custom Résumé / CV

Please include a personal CV

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

Please order a copy of your undergraduate transcript from your University's
registrar office, if available. Postgraduate degrees (e.g. Master's) will also
be reviewed if submitted.

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed. Documents that are
not in English must be accompanied by a notarized translation.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

It is expected that the requested mandatory documents (medical school and
undergraduate transcript, performance record, personal letter, CV, and 3
reference letters) will be available at the time of file review opening. These
documents are distributed to reviewers shortly after the CaRMS system opens
for program review. Any applications missing these required documents will be
considered incomplete.

Any documents which are received subsequent to this date will be considered
additional or supplementary information only.

PLEASE NOTE: We may not review additional documents beyond those requested for
our CaRMS application (includes reference letters, abstracts, publications,
etc.)

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 22, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: McMaster interview dates are scheduled
along with the other Canadian programs.  
  
Interview Dates for CaRMS are planned for January 22 2025 utilizing a virtual
interview platform.  
  
Our residency program will host a virtual social event in conjunction with the
CARMS interview days.  
  
Applicants selected for interview will be provided with additional details
closer to interview dates.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Personal interviews are required, but
only offered to short-listed candidates. With the large number of applicants
to our program for CMG and IMG CaRMS positions, we cannot interview everyone.  
  
Candidates are requested to include a head and shoulders photograph in their
e-CaRMS file, for assistance with identification on interview day.  
  
All eligible applicant files are reviewed by CARMS Residency Selection
Committee (staff radiologists / chief residents) and a short list is made. The
Program Assistant contacts the selected applicants by email, to invite them
for an interview and to organize a time. Candidates who have not been selected
for interview will also be informed by email.  
  
Interviews are organized to coordinate with other Radiology programs across
Canada.  
  
There are three 10- 15 minute interviews conducted by members of the Residency
Program Committee.  
  
On their designated interview day, candidates will have ample opportunity to
informally meet with many of our residents, outside of the formal interview
process. This is useful for candidates who have not had the opportunity to
arrange an elective at our University.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We are looking for bright, enthusiastic and responsible learners who care for
patients and work well with others. Candidates who are self-motivated and
embrace learning opportunities will thrive in our program. Candidates should
demonstrate strong academic achievements, as well as excellent interpersonal
skills and work ethic.

## Program goals

The McMaster University Diagnostic Radiology Program is designed to produce
strong clinical radiologists.  The program fosters the development of general
radiology skills as well as strong consultative skills.

As a program, we strive to produce radiologists who will be life-long
learners, able to respond to the increasing demands of our exciting, rapidly
expanding medical specialty.

The program is designed to meet the specifications of the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, utlilizing the CanMEDS framework.  Our
general program objectives have been adopted from those outlined by the Royal
College.  Our program curriculum has transitioned to CBD framework as of July
2022 for the incoming (and subsequent) PGY1 cohorts.

## Selection process goals

We are looking for residents who are bright individuals with strong
interpersonal and problem-solving skills, an equitable, patient-centred
approach to care, as well as high ethical and professional standards. They
must have a strong knowledge of radiology and applicable specialties with the
ability to apply that knowledge clinically.

Our ideal candidate possesses all of these attributes and has a passion for
radiology. McMaster University program is aimed at residents who are
interested in either a university-based or community practice. We have the
capacity to support those interested in research, education and other areas of
scholarship within the practice of medicine.

The program is very keen to have residents from all Canadian medical schools
represented in each resident class. We are looking for the best candidates for
our specialty; therefore, preference is not given to medical graduates of any
particular medical school.

Involvement in research is of value in demonstrating a commitment to scholarly
activities; however, it is not a requirement for admission and thus it is not
heavily weighted in our selection process.

## File review process

Review team composition : Review team is composed of multiple radiologists
(6-8) and our chief residents (1-2) who review all available CARMS
applications.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
CMG applications range between 50-60/year over the past decade.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  
We have capacity to interview 8-10 IMG applicants during our interview period.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Variety of experiences to support academic excellence/ collegiality / leadership   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Exposure to radiology during formal electives is an asset   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  CASPer examination has been added for current match cycle to support initiative from Canadian Radiology Program Director Committee.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Ability to work in multidisciplinary environment   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Assessment of academic performance / professionalism issues   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Understanding of individual's interest in field of radiology   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Competency to work in field of radiology and related medical / surgical specialties.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Participation in research projects / publications is reviewed however not mandatory   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evidence of strong academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We expect that candidates will complete at least one elective in Diagnostic
Radiology, in order to understand the specialty. This will give the candidate
the opportunity to appreciate the demands of this 5 year residency program, as
well as the scope of practice of radiology. We understand that scheduling
radiology electives is challenging.   If unable to complete radiology
electives, please ensure you highlight interest in radiology in personal
letter, research experience, and / or reference letters.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Discussion of teamwork (personal examples) / challenges and solutions   
Collegiality |  Review of ability to work in multidisciplinary environment (medical or non-medical)   
Communication skills |  Potential interview questions with hypothetical scenarios   
Health advocacy |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Interest in the discipline |  Review of elective experiences in radiology / Positive and negatives of discipline   
Interest in the program |  Knowledge of McMaster and our program   
Leadership skills |  Review of CV items that may highlight leadership potential   
Professionalism |  Potential specific questions with hypothetical scenarios.   
Scholarly activities |  Review of research projects (if applicable) to understand degree of involvement   
Other interview component(s) |  During their interviews, successful applicants must demonstrate excellent communication skills, the ability to problem solve, and have a collaborative, person-centered mindset.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * Excellent exposure to all imaging modalities
  * Friendly, supportive, training environment
  * Good staff/resident ratio
  * Strong, close-knit, collegial group of residents
  * Keen and involved faculty, with strong teaching interests
  * Excellent opportunity for high exposure to "hands-on" interventional training
  * Simulation procedural workshops (senior and junior sessions), yearly
  * MRI, CT and US at all four sites
  * Exposure to PACS environment at all sites
  * High volume of diverse disease and varying pathology in Hamilton Hospitals
  * Excellent medical physics course, twice annually
  * Keen, enthusiastic program director & supportive resident education committee
  * Excellent Royal College Exam Pass track record
  * McMaster University leader in evidence-based medicine

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Our 5 year program is structured to produce radiologists who can supervise,
advise on and perform imaging procedures as a consultant to referring
clinicians.

We stress knowledge, technical skills and communication skills. Residents are
closely supervised throughout the program but are given increasing
responsibility, so that final year residents function as "junior staff".

For a more detailed description of our program curriculum and department,
please visit our website at
[www.fhs.mcmaster.ca/radiology](http://www.fhs.mcmaster.ca/radiology)

**Curriculum By Design (CBD) / Competency Based Medical Education (CBME)
curriculum commenced July 1, 2022**

**Transition to Discipline - TTD (Blocks 1-11)**

Internal Medicine - 2 blocks  

General Surgery - 2 blocks  
Emergency Medicine - 2 blocks  
Pathology - 1 block  
Pediatrics - 1 block  
Neurology - 1 block  
Introductory Radiology / Anatomy – 2 blocks



**Foundations (Blocks 12 - 19)**

Introductory CT

Introductory Ultrasound

Introductory Neuroradiology

ER / Trauma Radiography

Pediatric Radiology

Chest Radiology

Musculoskeletal Radiology

Body CT

**Core  (Blocks 20 - 59)**

Pediatric Radiology

Chest Radiology

Musculoskeletal Radiology

Ultrasound

Breast Imaging

Nuclear Medicine

Neuroradiology

Cardiac Imaging

Obstetrical Ultrasound

GI Fluoroscopy

Community Rotation

Electives

**Transition to Practice (Blocks 60 - 65)**

Junior Staff (4 blocks)

Electives (1 blocks)

**Research**

Residents are required to complete a research project and clinical audit
during their residency training.  We require presentation of research project
at our Annual Radiology Research Day, at least once during their residency.
Research time is provided as needed. Residents are provided financial support
to present their work at scientific meetings and access to resource persons
regarding study design, statistical analysis etc.  Research curriculum is
supported by resident research coordinator and academic half day lectures.

**Seminars**

Daily rounds, weekly academic half-days, regular Journal Club, and an annual
physics course are integral components of the training program. There are a
variety of other educational opportunities for residents, including a strong
visiting professor lecture series. Residents are encouraged to attend outside
meetings. Financial support is provided to attend the AIRP. Educational
stipends are provided in the PGY 4 and PGY 5 years, to support attendance at
review courses or for educational material/resources.

* * *

# Training Sites

McMaster Radiology Teaching sites

Hamilton Health Sciences - McMaster University Medical Centre

Hamilton Health Sciences - Juravinski Hospital

Hamilton Health Sciences - Hamilton General Hospital

St. Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton

For more information regarding our teaching hospitals, please visit our
website.

* * *

# FAQ

Q: What qualities does your program look for in a potential resident?

A: We are looking for a candidate who fits well with our program. This
includes a strong academic background, as well as collegial spirit. We are
interested in enthusiastic learners who are happy to be at McMaster.
Congenial, reliable and hard-working residents are usually the most
successful. McMaster recognizes and values collaborative learning - this
philosophy allows each resident to gain from the strengths of their peers.
Recognition and dedication to steady, continued personal study is also key.

Q: Do I need to do an elective at McMaster to enhance my profile as a
candidate?

A: We recognize that medical students cannot do electives at all programs. We
recommend at least one radiology elective (minimum 2 weeks), in order that the
candidate has a clear understanding of what a career in radiology entails. We
do not recommend that students use all of their elective time for radiology
electives - a broad spectrum of experiences is important to assist with career
choices as well as well-rounded medical training. We have matched many
residents to our program who have never been to McMaster for an elective.

Q: Will participation in a research project make me more competitive as a
candidate?

A: Research is not a mandatory requirement for application. We have residents
with extensive backgrounds in research, along with others who have limited
experience. Research experience or publications are secondary to academic
excellence and interpersonal skills.

Q: Is there an opportunity for residents to teach?

A: There are ample opportunities for residents to participate in teaching.
Informal teaching opportunities include medical/elective student and junior
resident mentoring. Residents also participate in teaching the summer
prepartory on-call lecture series.  Our residents participate in clinical
skills teaching, medical school orientation, undergraduate medicine radiology
interest groups and select resource sessions on radiology topics for medical
students and other postgraduate programs.

Q: How do you provide ongoing evaluation feedback to residents?

A: Formal and informal feedback to residents is important. Under our new
Competence by Design curriculum, residents receive feedback through regular
Entrustable Professional Activities (EPA) assessments which are opportunities
for 1-on-1 feedback from radiology faculty. Residents are also evaluated at
the end of each of their rotations with a summative evaluation.

In addition, there are several methods of objective resident evaluation. Two
OSCE examinations are held each year in the fall and spring. These
examinations are structured to mimic the Royal College OSCE examinations. The
OSCE is in electronic bell-ringer type examination, in PowerPoint format, with
10 stations covering a spectrum of subspecialty areas. There is also a formal
Mock Oral examination in Royal College style, held each April (PGY 3-5) and
June (PGY 2) residents. Each of these examinations are scored, with timely
individual feedback given to each resident. As well, there is an annual
multiple-choice examination (ACR) taken by most North American residents.
Subspecialty scores are provided, with peer comparison data from across the
continent.

Finally, each resident meets individually with the Program Director, for 6 and
12 month reviews to discuss rotation evaluations, objective tests and personal
goals.

Q: What research opportunities are there in your program?

A: All residents are required to complete one research project and a clinical
audit during residency. There is an annual resident research day, where
residents present their work. There are a number of faculty persons with
varying research interests. We encourage presentation of these projects at
radiology meetings, as well as publishing their work. There are research
grants available through the Postgraduate Education Office. In addition, the
Radiology Research Committee has funding available for resident projects.

Q: Is there dedicated time provided for research?

A: Time available for research is flexible. Residents are able to obtain
individual research days, in order to meet with statisticians, supervisors or
research collaborators. Our program does not designate a dedicated block of
time.  If a project required a scheduled research block, this would be
discussed with the residency training committee. Our residents indicate
satisfaction with the research time available.  There are designated research
resources available to the residents, including a program-designated
statistician and epidemiology resources.

Q: Is there support to attend scientific meetings or courses?

A: Residents who are presenting a poster or podium research project receive
financial support from the program. The amount available is usually sufficient
to cover expenses for travel, accommodation and meeting registration. Most
residents attend the AIRP in Washington DC, in their PGY 4 year. The program
reimburses the tuition for this course. In addition, each PGY 4 and PGY 5
receives an educational stipend of $1500.00/year. The stipends are utilized to
support educational resource purchases (books, CDs, computer resources) or
conference/review course expenses.

Q: Do most of your residents do fellowships after residency?

A: Historically, 75-100% of our graduating residents participate in a
fellowship program, with most successful at obtaining their choice of
fellowship location and subspecialty.

 Q: What type of fellowship do your residents usually do? US vs. Canada?

A: Canadian and US fellowships. Choice is often guided by subspecialty
interests, as well as family commitments and mobility. Common subspecialty
choices include body/cross-sectional imaging, musculoskeletal and
interventional.

 Q: What percentage of your graduates work in community vs. teaching hospital
jobs?

A: Choice of jobs is influenced by the job market, career opportunities and
subspecialty interests. Our graduates work in both environments. In general,
at least 25% of graduates select a teaching hospital position as their initial
career position.

 Q: What is the success rate for your program at the Royal College
examinations?

A: Our residents are well-trained and well-prepared to sit their Royal College
of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada examination. We have an 10-year 100% pass
rate at these examinations.

 Q: Do many of your graduates return to work in Hamilton?

A: Each year, at least one of our graduating residents is recruited to a
faculty position at McMaster. Although there is a large cadre of former
graduates, there is still a wealth of faculty members who have trained
elsewhere, offering the advantage of varied training perspectives and
experience.

 Q: Do you have residents matched to your program other than Canadian medical
graduates through CaRMS?

A: In addition to Canadian-trained medical students via CARMS match, the
Diagnostic Radiology program typically accepts 1-2 additional candidates via
the International Medical Graduate (IMG) program and/or externally funded
(e.g. Gulf State) candidates.

 Q: Do you envision any upcoming changes to the program?

A: Our program is well-established, with a strong track record of case
material, resident teaching and exam success. With recent updates to the Royal
College training requirements and movement of clinical services at HHS, we
have redesigned our rotation schedule and curriculum to meet requirements and
best meet our residents’ educational needs..  We are flexible to any change in
faculty or hospital services in Hamilton, as our program design is rotation-
based, not hospital-based.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26716?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26716