#  Memorial University of Newfoundland - Neurology - St. John's  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 23, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Notice of intent to withdraw accreditation

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Linda Magnusson  

Address Neurology  
Health Sciences Centre  
300 Prince Philip Drive  
St. John's , Newfoundland and Labrador, A1B 3V6  

Work  (709) 864-6073

Work

Websites of Interest [ Neurology Residency Program
](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/discmedicine/programs/neurology/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Linda Magnusson

Title: Program Director

  

Name: Dr. Marsha Eustace

Title: Assistant Program Director

  

Name: Cory Rankin

Title: Program Administrator

Email: neurology@mun.ca

Phone: 7098646073

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please review Memorial University's [Provincial
Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/) and admission requirements for postgraduate medical education.



**Orientation**

Applicants who match to Memorial University must attend orientation during the
last week of June. Details will be provided in March 2025.

* * *

# Return of Service

CMGs/USMGs:

No return of service (RoS) is required for CMG seats in the first iteration.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Successful applicants will receive an email stating the date and time of their
interview. We have a unique time zone that is offset by at least half an hour
from the rest of Canada, so please double-check the time of your interview.



Interviews are segmented into three 20-minute sessions, hosted by the program
director, assistant program director, and two current residents.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Exemption to English language proficiency testing**

  * If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States where English is the language of instruction, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.  
    * **If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States which provides training in multiple language streams, please self-identify which stream you graduated from, e.g. English-Stream, French-Stream, Spanish-Stream, etc.**

**Who is required to provide English Language Proficiency?**

  * If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States where the language of instruction is not in English (e.g. French) you are required to provide proof of proficiency in the English language. It is important to note that this requirement extends to all such applicants, regardless of whether other secondary/post-secondary education took place in English and regardless of citizenship.

The accepted English language proficiency exams, and the required scores, are
as follows:

  * International English Language Testing System - Academic (IELTS-Academic), with a minimum score of **7**  in each of the components in the same sitting;
  * Occupational English Test - Medicine (OET-Medicine), with a minimum grade of **B**  in each of the four subsets in the same sitting;
  * Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program Test - General (CELPIP-General), with a minimum score of **9**  in each of the four skills in the same sitting.

Exams must be dated within 24 months of the residency start date (July 1).
Results must be available by the CaRMS document review deadline.

Examinations

Optional - will be reviewed

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If applicable.



Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

3 reference letters are required.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Successful candidates will include information about their background
including their journey in medicine. Additionally, it is important to
highlight aspects of the field of Neurology which they find intriguing, and
why they think a career in Neurology is for them.

We would also like to know more about candidates interests outside of
medicine, highlighting their ability to balance work life and personal life.

Lastly, we would like to know why they are considering a residency at
Memorial. It would be nice to highlight knowledge of the University, program
and province.





Custom Résumé / CV

Memorial Declaration for Interruptions

ALL applicants must submit the [Declaration of Interruptions
](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/pgme/current-learners/forms/)form with their
application.

Consent for disclosure

ALL applicants must submit the [Consent to
Disclose](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/pgme/current-learners/forms/) form with
their application.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

If available

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

If applicable

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 4, 2025
  * February 5, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be conducted virtually and
as such there will be a degree of flexibility to accommodate time zone
differences. All interview times will be scheduled using the Newfoundland time
zone.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Traditional interview format (one on
one/two on one).  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Eligible candidates must have a demonstrated interest in the field of
neurology and have a good academic record. Other factors including reports by
clinical preceptors, interviews, personal letters and interest in scholarly
activity may also be taken into consideration.

## Program goals

Upon completion of the five year residency training program in Neurology at
Memorial University, a resident is expected to be competent in Neurology.

The resident must acquire a working knowledge of the theoretical basis of the
specialty, including its foundations in the basic medical sciences and
research.

Residents must demonstrate the requisite knowledge, skills, and attitudes for
effective patient-centred care and service to a diverse population.

As physicians, residents in our program are expected to provide quality care
to the residents of Newfoundland and Labrador.

We strive to continue to provide a supportive training environment with strong
collegiality between Neurologists and residents and a mentorship program to
assist with resident well-being and career planning.

## Selection process goals

Neurology is a very cerebral speciality. We are interested in applicants who
share our collective enthusiasm for the speciality. Ideally, candidates would
have completed rotations in Neurology either through core clerkship or
elective opportunities.

Given Memorial is a research focused University, successful applicants should
have research experience or be interested in exploring various research
avenues.

It is also important to consider that we offer a smaller Residency program,
consisting of a small staff-to-resident-ratio, which gives us an advantage
over larger programs, allowing for greater exposure to complex cases early in
residency. Incoming residents should be prepared for this, and able to meet
that challenge by having a strong work ethic and an aptitude for being able to
rise to that challenge.

Overall, we are looking for energetic, and enthusiastic residents who would be
excited to explore Neurology with us.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our file review team consists of the program
director, assistant program director, and two residents. We review all
applications separately, and meet to review as a committee.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
In the first iteration, we review files only from Canadian Medical schools,
however, we are open to applicants from international Universities in the
second iteration.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  
The majority of applicants are offered interviews as long as they meet the
requisites listed.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Background education along with employment history, volunteer experience/community involvement.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Interest in the specialty but also performance during individual electives/rotations.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We no not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Well rounded skill set, with community leadership and involvement.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Strong communicator, collaborator; someone who would excel in the non Medical Expert CanMEDS roles.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Medical School Record including ITERS and comments about performance during individual rotations.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Show interest in the program and interest in the field of Neurology. Interest/intrigue in NL.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Someone who can speak to the applicant’s proficiency in medicine and/or academia.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We have a focus on research at Memorial and like to see some background interest in our applicants.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Reviewed to gain insight into prior academic performance.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We like to hear of experience in a team setting.   
Collegiality |  We look for past experience which can highlight this integral skill set.   
Communication skills |  We like to hear of past experiences were language/communication helped better a patient's care.   
Health advocacy |  The successful applicants must be able to give specific examples of their efforts in health advocacy   
Interest in the discipline |  What has drawn people to the field of neurology and to pursue a career in it.   
Interest in the program |  Applicants have done background reading into MUN and why they think they would be a good fit.   
Leadership skills |  Examples which can highlight this quality in the applicant.   
Professionalism |  Medicine requires an individual to uphold a standard of moral fortitude and ethical behaviour.   
Scholarly activities |  Our research program is growing at Memorial and we like to see enthusiasm about research.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Memorial University Neurology Residency Training Program's priority is the
training of competent general neurologists. At the same time, there is a great
deal of flexibilty built into the schedule to allow residents to tailor the
program somewhat towards their needs for practice and future goals including
pursuit of fellowships.  

Our strengths include a thorough academic curriculum, substantial exposure to
patient care and the close colleagial atmosphere of a small program.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Neurology Residency Program at Memorial University of Newfoundland is a
five year program. Memorial University uses 4 week rotations. We moved to a
Competence By Design curriculum in July 2020 and we use a dedicated MUNCAT app
for EPA completion. Regular clinical coaching is provided to our residents.

PGY 1  
  

This is a year of mixed rotations:

\- Internal medicine - 4 blocks (Internal medicine is divided over the first 2
years. There will be some flexibility regarding timing of rotations but
ideally those included in the PGY1 year will be 2 blocks on General Medicine
MTUs, and 2 blocks of a Medicine selective from either Rheumatology,
Endocrinology, Geriatrics or Hematology subject to availability.)

\- Neurosurgery - 1 block

\- Emergency Medicine - 1 block

\- Neurology inpatient service \- 3 blocks

\- Neurology consult service - 1 block

\- Electives - 1 block

\- Neuroradiology - 1 block

\- 1 week Ophthalmology

\- 1 weeks ENT

\- 2 weeks of Clinics (shared with Ophthalmology/ENT rotations)

  
  

PGY 2  
  

Mixed rotations including:

Internal Medicine - 4 blocks (1 ICU, 1 CCU, and 2 blocks of a Medicine
selective from either Rheumatology, Endocrinology, Geriatrics or Hematology
subject to availability.)

Psychiatry - 2 blocks (consult liaison service and geriatric psychiatry)

Palliative Care - 1 block

Community Neurology - 1 block (New Brunswick)

Neurology consults - 1 block

Neurology wards - 1 block

Neurology clinics - 2 blocks

Physiatry - 1 block (out of province)

  
  

PGY 3  
  

Adult neurology - 8 blocks (neurology inpatient service, consult service)

Research - 1 block

Electives - 2 blocks

EEG - 1 block

EEG - 1 block (out of province)



  
  

PGY 4  
  

\- Pediatric neurology - 3 blocks

\- EMG - 3 blocks

\- Electives - 2 blocks

- Neurology Clinics - 3 blocks

\- Neuropathology - 2 blocks





  
  

PGY 5  
  

- Junior Attending - 2 blocks 

\- Neurology Consults - 1 block

\- Research - 2 blocks

\- Electives - 2 blocks

\- Neurology Clinics - 6 blocks

  
  

Research  
  

Neurology residents are included as part of the Internal Medicine research
program. The expectation exists that residents will complete at least one
scholarly project during their training and are invited to participate in the
Discipline of Medicine Scholarship Day (normally held in December of each
year).



  
  

Seminars  
  

The program includes a comprehensive academic teaching program.

  
  

Curriculum  
  

There is an organized academic curriculum as follows:

Tuesday 2-3 pm - Mainly a didactic lecture series organized to ensure adequate
coverage of a wide range of topics based on the objectives of training
provided by the Royal College for neurology residents.

Tuesday 3-4 pm \- Sessions on the non-medical expert CanMeds competencies,
journal club, didactic lectures, case-based learning and clinical skills
sessions.

Tuesday 4-5 pm - Neurology rounds (case based learning including pediatric
neurology, neurosurgery and neuroradiology).





* * *

# Training Sites

 \- Training sites include: Health Sciences Centre, St. Clare's Mercy
Hospital, Waterford Hospital, Leonard A. Miller Centre. EEG rotations are
completed at McGill or University of Toronto; Community Neurology is completed
in Saint John, NB; and a physiatry rotation is also completed out of province.

\- There are opportunities for interprovincial and international electives
while training for perhaps as many as six months in total.

\- The ratio of residents to faculty in 2025 will be 8:8

\- For inpatient service, the average patient load is 20 and consult service
average patient load is two consults per day following a total of
approximately five patients.

\- There are multiple general neurology clinics per week. There are
subspecialty clinics in MS, epilepsy, movement disorders, botox for movement
disorders and spasticity, and EMG.

\- Our institution does provide residents with access to electronic medical
resources.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26935?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26935