#  University of British Columbia - Pediatrics - Vancouver - Community Impact  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on October 09, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Melissa Chan  
Dr. Michaela Remington  

Address UBC Department of Pediatrics  
Room 2D19 - 4480 Oak Street  
Vancouver, British Columbia, V6H 3V4  

(604) 875-3465

Websites of Interest [ UBC Department of Pediatrics - Postgraduate Residency
Program ](http://pediatrics.med.ubc.ca/education/residency-program/)  
[ CANPREPP ](https://canprepp.ca/programs/university-of-british-columbia-
pediatrics-vancouver/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Michaela (Mia) Remington

Title: Program Director

  

Name: Dr. Lara Malks Jjumba

Title: Community Impact stream lead in Prince George

  

Name: Dr. Melissa Chan

Title: Program Director

  

General Information: For questions not covered on CaRMS site contact:

Name: Pam Fei

Title: Program Assistant

Email: pediatrics.residency@ubc.ca

Phone: 604 875 3465

  

* * *

# Important Information

Thank you for your interest in our program.  We invite you to join us to learn
more about our UBC Residency Program during our virtual information session.

The first half of the session will cover general topics around the Program,
including all our sites - Vancouver, Fraser and Victoria - and our Community
Impact (CI) stream and Research track. There will be breakout rooms with
smaller group discussions with some of our residents and Q+A in the later half
of the session.

October 15, 2024 from 17:00 – 18:30 (PST)



**Zoom Meeting Connection  Information:**



**Meeting ID** : 92014 221648; **Passcode** : 221648

<https://ubc.zoom.us/>

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

A maximum of three references from supervisors who know you well and can speak
to your strengths, character and motivation for pediatrics.

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  600

  

Our program values the personal letter as an opportunity to get to know you
and learn more about your journey to pediatrics. We value authenticity,
honesty, and a wide range of life experiences.

This a chance to highlight things about yourself that may not come up in other
parts of your application or to provide context to anything in your
application that you think might not be clear to the selection committee (ex.
gaps in training).

With this in mind; please address the following in your personal letter:

  * What has influenced your decision to pursue pediatrics? 
  * How will our program help you achieve your career goals?

Please note:  If you are have also applied to our general Vancouver CMG
stream, reviewers will have read your personal letter.  In this case, please
limit this letter to a maximum of 250 words, focusing only on the following:

  * Why are you particularly interested in and well suited to the Community Impact Stream?

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

_All applicant files submitted before the deadline will be reviewed by the
selection committee. Each file is evaluated for characteristics likely to
contribute to success as a pediatric resident in our program and eventually as
a pediatrician, and for potential to meet the needs of the diverse pediatric
population of BC.   Emphasis is on candidates who are likely to provide
pediatric care to underserved communities in our province._

_After review of documents, selected applicants will be offered a virtual
interview.   __Not all applicants meeting the minimal requirements will be
offered an interview.  _

_The final ranking process is determined by a combination of file review and
interview scores._

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 24, 2025

Details regarding interview dates:

  * Interviews will be held virtually.

  * Interviews for applicants applying to both the main Vancouver site  and the Community Impact stream will be held jointly on January 24, 2024.

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will be offered to those
applicants considered most suitable for the residency program based on the
submitted package.  Program will notify all applicants of their status as:
selected to interview, on waitlist for an interview, not selected for an
interview. Applicants on the waitlist will be notified if and when interview
spaces become available  
  
An email notification will be sent on January 5, 2024 and, if applicable, will
include instructions on accessing an online self-scheduling tool used by all
programs participating in the 2023 General Pediatrics CaRMS R-1 match.  
  
Potential candidates will be invited to participate in an MMI style interview
with participation from program directors,  faculty, and residents.  For the
community impact stream, there will be an additional interview scheduled with
the Community Impact faculty.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The Community Impact stream will provide candidates with significant
opportunities for independence. The nature of the program will require
residents to be flexible; although most of their training will occur at BC
Children's Hospital in Vancouver, a significant number of rotations will take
place in Prince George, and other community-based UBC sites. Trainees who are
motivated, independent, and mature in their learning style and who are
enthusiastic about rural, remote and/or community practice are encouraged to
apply.

Applications should demonstate evidence of:

  * An interest in pediatrics and understanding of the field (this may include elective experience, research or work experience involving children and youth)

  * Excellent communication and collaboration skills.
  * Compassion, strong work ethic and professionalism.

  * An inquisitive mind (ability to reason, critical thinking skills, curiosity)

  * Strong clinical skills and reasoning 

  * A willingness to accept feedback and commitment to self-improvement.

  * Flexibility, buoyance and independence

  * An interest and commitment to meeting the care needs of underserved populations and communities

 We value and celebrate diversity in our residents, program and community.

## Program goals

The mission of the UBC pediatric residency training program is to provide
quality postgraduate training experiences to prepare doctors to be highly
competent pediatric specialists and sub-specialists, in order to meet the
diverse needs of patients and communities in British Columbia.  

Our goal is to equip residents to be ready for independent practice, capable
of assuming a consultant's role, in pediatric careers that include excellence
in clinical care, medical education, clinical research, and child health
advocacy, fulfilling all the objectives of specialty training in pediatrics of
the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

At UBC, we are committed to training physicians who will ultimately be serving
our population.  A focus of the community impact stream is to train
pediatricians with an interest in pediatric care in remote, rural and
underserved communities.

Residents in our program are expected to demonstrate clinical and academic
excellence, exceptional interpersonal and teamwork skills, collegiality with
peers, scholarly perspective, and a sense of responsibility and dedication to
the profession.

At UBC, we rely on the entire province for training. We celebrate the learning
opportunities available to learners through our distributed partnerships.
Therefore, the ability to complete rotations 'away' from your home base is
expected.  For the community impact stream, this includes approximately six
months of the first year based in Prince George, a regional centre in Northern
BC.

## Selection process goals

Identify applicants interested in Pediatrics, and those who will develop into
exceptional pediatricians

Identify applicants who show evidence of a commitment to community pediatrics,
remote and rural medicine, and demonstrate interest in the care of underserved
and equite deserving populations

Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability to collaborate with
patients, colleagues, and healthcare team members alike

Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability and enthusiasm to learn and
are able to adapt to the various demands of residency training

Identify applicants who have a sincere interest to serve British Columbians

Identify applicants who are independent, flexible and mature learners

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team is composed of the program
directors, and 20 - 25 other faculty (including faculty at distributed sites)
. Additionally, applications will be reviewed by two faculty from Prince
George for specific suitability for the community impact stream.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Evidence of engagement in research, medical education, leadership and/or extracurricular activities (including work experience)   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Electives in rural, remote or community-based settings are recognized, but not required   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  CaSPER   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Work and life experience   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidenced by commitment to self improvement, professionalism, and growth mindset   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstrated interpersonal skills; clinical competence   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in and suitability for a career in pediatrics and this specific program stream; desire to serve the needs of British Columbians   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interaction with colleagues and patients; interest in and aptitude for pediatrics; capacity for growth   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Demonstration of academic curiosity and an inquisitive mind   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Absence of professionalism concerns   
Other file component(s) |  Suitability for the Community Impact Stream (CI) - we are looking for candidates who:  
• Are independent, flexible learners  
• Show evidence of a commitment to community pediatrics, remote and rural
medicine  
• Demonstrate interest in the care of underserved and/or equity deserving
populations  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

For electives in Pediatrics, the program may contact any elective supervisor
listed on your CaRMS application.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high-quality patient care through working in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Behaviours, attitudes, abilities required to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Clear and concise communication throughout interview; evidence of strong communication skills   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrated understanding of social justice and impact of inequities on the health of children and families   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated interest and aptitude for pediatrics; realistic understanding of pediatrics as a career   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest in our program, setting, and serving the needs of British Columbians   
Leadership skills |  Self-awareness, recognition of one's strengths and weaknesses. Ability to cope with adversity and difficult situations.   
Professionalism |  Resilience and emotional intelligence; demonstrated optimism and growth mindset (willingness to learn from challenges); recognition of boundaries and limitations   
Scholarly activities |  Critical thinking and analysis skills   
Other interview component(s) |  Commitment to rural, remote and/or community pediatrics and the care of underserved populations  
Evidence of self-directed learning and initiative  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

### **Community Impact stream of the UBC Pediatric Residency Program Vancouver
site**

One resident each year from the Vancouver site may choose to match to the
Community Impact stream, which has a focus on providing pediatric care to
underserved populations.  Six blocks of the Foundations curriculum are based
in Prince George, a regional centre in Northern BC. CTU (clinical teaching
unit), community pediatrics and level II NICU are experienced in an integrated
longitudinal manner.   Community rotations in Core and Transition to
Discipline stages may also be based in Prince George.

This stream provides residents the opportunity to develop the skills necessary
to provide care to underserved and equity deserving populations.  With a focus
on rural and social pediatrics, the curriculum has been designed to emphasize
training opportunities at community-based sites.  Partnering with our clinical
faculty members in Prince George, the resident will gain early experience in
community pediatric medicine in their first year and be encouraged to continue
to explore pediatrics through a social justice lens throughout their
residency. There will be opportunities to be involved in outreach programs, a
community–based continuity clinic, and global health electives. The mandatory
resident research project can be focused in these areas.

As a smaller regional centre, Prince George will give the pediatric resident a
unique opportunity to become a leader, teacher and mentor to medical students
during their time there. Even as a PGY1 resident, the pediatric resident will
be the most senior trainee in pediatrics. This will also afford ample
opportunity to take on responsibility in a supported way under direction of
the general pediatrician, without the “layers” of seniority that can occur in
larger teaching hospitals. We believe, supported by feedback from previous
residents, that this provides outstanding learning opportunities and enables
development of the competencies and confidence that a pediatrician needs to
practice in any community.

Developing the trainee’s skills as an educator and scholar, a gifted and
skilled communicator, and a reflective medical leader will be an active goal
and part of ongoing educational opportunities.  The Community Impact Stream is
fully integrated into the Vancouver-based training-program and will be
provided the same educational supports.

We currently have 4 residents in the Community Impact Stream.  At present we
are unable to accept IMG applications for the Community Impact Stream.

For more information on our general program, please see **UBC - Vancouver CMG
program description.**



###  UBC Pediatric Residency Program

The UBC general pediatric residency training program strives to provide a
broad inpatient, ambulatory and community educational base to equip general
pediatricians with the skills necessary for independent practice and/or the
successful transition to subspecialty training. Training within the tertiary
care setting helps graduates develop the confidence and skills necessary to
treat children with medical and psychosocial complexity and allows for
exposure to all pediatric subspecialties. This is complemented by mandatory
time spent each year in community practices and hospitals around the province
where residents gain valuable and unique learning opportunities.  Our
pediatric residency training program is committed to providing an excellent
educational experience within the guidelines of the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

Residents attend mandated academic activities, including academic half-days
and Grand Rounds on a weekly basis. These are video-conferenced to our
distributed sites throughout the province. There are two mandatory resident
retreats and a Careers Night annually, attended by residents from both sites.

Residents also practice resuscitation scenarios in the high-fidelity simulator
program, both on acute care rotations (PICU and emergency medicine) and in
their longitudinal simulation curriculum in the academic half-day. Regular
mock codes take place for residents on the clinical teaching unit (CTU).

Research is a high priority of all the divisions within the Department of
Pediatrics.  Most departmental members are active investigators.  The  BC
Children’s Hospital Research Institute (BCCHRI) located beside BC Children's
Hospital, is dedicated to world-class research spanning a wide range of
children's and women's health concerns. It is the largest research institute
of its kind in Western Canada.

All residents are expected to work on clinical, basic science, quality
improvement or medical education research and to present their work at least
once, either at the annual research day or at a conference. First year
residents take part in a 24-hour research curriculum during the academic half-
day. The resident Journal Club is scheduled bimonthly and introduces residents
to key clinical research methodologies and critical appraisal of the
literature.

The UBC Department of Pediatrics and the pediatrics residency program have a
commitment to social justice as a lens for all pediatric care, and to
addressing health inequities affecting children and youth. In addition to a
mandatory social pediatrics rotation, residents have opportunities to engage
in resident-driven local health advocacy projects, outreach programs in BC, as
well as global child health initiatives, including local social pediatrics
electives and electives overseas.

Residents can participate in the outreach visits to Haida Gwaii and
Smithers/Hazelton, as well as the Brighter Smiles program that serves several
First Nations communities.  Currently, partnerships exist with hospitals in
and Australia, allowing senior residents the opportunity to participate in
ethical, extended (typically three month) global health electives.





* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The curriculum has been revised in accordance with the Royal College's
_Competence By Design_  required and recommended training experiences, and
standards for accreditation for pediatrics as of July 2021.  The 4 stages of
CBD are mapped over 4 years, after which residents can choose to apply to a
subspecialty. The first three stages provide exposure to acute care and
ambulatory pediatrics as well as the subspecialties, with a graded
responsibility from junior to senior residency.  Residents participate in the
resident continuity clinic during Core and Transition to Practice stages.

**Transition to Discipline:**

  * Orientation block
  * Newborn care
  * Pediatric emergency medicine
  * CTU (clinical teaching unit) at BC Children's Hospital

**Foundations  (junior resident):**

  * 5.5 blocks in Prince George of integrated training which includes CTU, well newborns and level II nursery, community general pediatrics, social pediatrics, ambulatory clinics and outreach programs
  * Subspecialties: emergency medicine, endocrinology, gastroenterology, neurology clinics, hematology-oncology clinics, respirology/allergy
  * Neonatal care: community level III NICU

#### **Core:**

#### **     Core 1 (transition towards senior resident):**

  * CTU, night float, hospital consults, social pediatrics
  * Community general pediatrics in Prince George
  * Subspecialties: nephrology, oncology, cardiology, pediatric surgery
  * Neonatal care: tertiary level III nursery
  * Pediatric intensive care
  * Electives x 2
  * Research x 2 weeks

#### **     Core 2 (senior resident):**

  * CTU Senior in Prince George
  * night float, community hospital pediatrics
  * Subspecialties: developmental pediatrics, neurology, adolescent medicine, psychiatry, emergency, dermatology, either complex care or palliative care
  * medical selective (genetics, infectious diseases, metabolic diseases, or rheumatology)
  * Neonatal care: tertiary level III nursery
  * Pediatric intensive care
  * Elective x 2

#### Transition to Practice:

  * Junior consultant in a distributed site, community ambulatory pediatrics, CTU, Night float
  * Emergency medicine
  * NICU selective
  * Electives.

### **  
Accommodation:**

Details regarding housing and accommodation for mandated distributed rotations
are outlined in the PGME guidelines.



### Formal Academic Teaching

Residents participate in mandated academic activities, including the
following:

  * Academic Half Day: 3 1/2 hours per week _(12:30­-4:00 pm Tuesdays)_.  This is protected academic time.
  * Simulation Program:  eight 3-hour sessions during academic half days throughout the year.  This is protected academic time.
  * Grand Rounds: 1 hour per week _(1200 - 1300 Fridays)_
  * Rotation specific rounds and seminars: (_1­-5  hours per week)_
  * CTU teaching: lead resident and subspecialty teaching sessions; mock codes or 'just in time' simulations weekly
  * Journal Club: bi-monthly meetings, 2 hours per meeting, usually off campus
  * Twice yearly resident retreats
  * Common courses (NRP, PALS, etc.)

  
**Research**

In order to fulfill the RCPSC objectives of training, each resident is
expected to work on a clinical, basic science, quality improvement or medical
education research project throughout the program and to present their work at
least once, either at the annual research day or at a conference. The Resident
Research Director runs the research program with a research committee and a
full-time scholarly activities coordinator.  First year residents take part in
a 24 hour research curriculum during the academic half day.

The resident Journal Club is scheduled bimonthly and introduces residents to
key clinical research methodologies. The Club is organized by the residents
and hosted by faculty members from different divisions in Pediatrics.

  
**Mandatory Courses**

The Department of Pediatrics schedules the NRP, PALS and Peds BASIC courses in
the first and second years of resident training. Residents are also required
to complete ACLS, Residents as Teachers, and online courses including the
Indigenous Cultural Competency Course and Immunization Pearls.  
  

### Night Float

A night float call system is used for the coverage of the clinical teaching
units (CTU) during the weeknights. Night float runs on alternating nights over
a two weeks period (6 to 7 call shifts) with cross covering residents filling
gaps. Several rotations (PICU, NICU, IN, etc.) continue to use a traditional
call schedule upholding Resident Doctors of BC call regulations.



* * *

# Training Sites

Resources:

BC Children’s Hospital, Vancouver

BC Women’s Hospital, Vancouver

Sunny Hill Health Centre for Children, Vancouver

University Hospital of Northern BC, Prince George

Distributed community pediatrics sites

Examples of Regional/Rural Electives: Terrace, Cranbrook, Whitehorse



_The Hospitals_



Through their affiliation with the University of British Columbia, British
Columbia Children's and Women's Hospitals serve as the primary source of
pediatric training in the province.  The new Teck Acute Care Center opened in
late 2017.

**British Columbia Children's Hospital (BCCH)** is the only tertiary care
pediatric hospital in BC. The hospital also provides primary and secondary
pediatric care to the pediatric population in and around Vancouver.  Virtually
all medical and surgical sub-specialties are represented at this centre. There
is a total of 154 pediatric beds with approximately 7100 admissions per year.
The 18 bed Pediatric ICU has approximately 800 admissions per year. We have an
active pediatric cardio-thoracic surgery service. British Columbia Children's
Hospital has a Pediatric Emergency Department with approximately 50,000 visits
per year. The Ambulatory Care Building hosts over 40 clinics,  seeing over
160,000 visits per year. There are active medical, surgical and psychiatric
daycare programs.  http://www.bcchildrens.ca/

 **British Columbia Women's Hospital** offers level 2 and 3 neonatal
experience with 60 neonatal beds and over 1100 admission to NICU each year,
and the **Sunny Hill Health Centre for Children** provides child development
and rehabilitation services, with 12 inpatient beds, and 12,000 ambulatory
visits annually.

Residents also spend time in a number of other community hospitals in the
province, including Surrey Memorial Hospital, the Royal Inland Hospital in
Kamloops, Royal Columbian Hospital New Westminster, Abbotsford Regional
General Hospital, Nanaimo Regional General Hospital, University hospital of
Northern BC (Prince George), and Kelowna Regional General Hospital.



**University of Hospital of Northern BC (UHNBC**) in Prince George is the
regional pediatric referral centre for northern British Columbia, serving a
regional population of approximately 300,000 and a geographic area of
approximately 600,000 km2. The pediatric ward is a 12-bed unit with family
suites for every patient. The Neonatal ICU is a level 2B unit with twelve pods
which allow for single room neonatal care. The Labor and Delivery unit has
approximately 1200 newborns delivered of gestational age 30 weeks and older
every year. The Pediatric Ambulatory clinic hosts resident clinics in general
pediatrics and specialty clinics staffed by local pediatricians in asthma and
diabetes, as well as visiting pediatric specialty clinics from virtually all
subspecialty disciplines from BC Children’s Hospital. Residents in Prince
George will also attend off-site clinics in child maltreatment, eating
disorders, First Nations health, autism assessments, FASD assessments, complex
behavioral conditions.

The Pediatric medical staff in Prince George are a small collegial group of
physicians who interact frequently with primary care providers and other
specialists (particularly obstetricians). They support one another at all
times, and are supported by highly trained nursing and allied health staff.
Residents in Prince George can expect to become part of the medical community,
particularly with staff in pediatrics, NICU and maternity/LDR. Trainees who
are motivated and proactive can expect significant hands on experience in a
range of settings, and will enjoy the opportunity to thrive in a professional
environment that is excited about a new training opportunity.



_The University_  

 The Department of Pediatrics, part of the **University of British Columbia**
's Faculty of Medicine, has played a vital role in developing undergraduate
and postgraduate clinical training programs since 1952. The strength of the
Department lies in three areas: teaching, research, and exemplary patient
care. We are fully accredited by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons
of Canada. In addition, most subspecialties offer Royal College accredited
training programs for pediatric graduates, with approximately 80 subspecialty
residents and fellows per year.  https://pediatrics.med.ubc.ca/

 The **UBC Northern Medical Program** is a highly successful distributed
training site of the UBC Faculty of Medicine. Medical students complete most
of their four-year training program in Prince George. Most students complete
their entire clerkship year in Prince George, though some choose to do
clerkship in smaller, more rural communities in BC. The development and
success of the NMP has resulted in graduating physicians who are excited by
rural medicine, many of whom are now practicing in northern and rural
communities in BC. Having the NMP in Prince George since 2004 has led to the
development of a medical staff in Prince George who are excited by and
expertly trained in medical education. In addition, the UBC Prince George
Family Medicine residency program trains 15 new residents per year, there is a
psychiatry residency program (2 seats) and there are several UBC Royal College
specialty residents who spend time in Prince George as part of their training.
https://www2.unbc.ca/northern-medical-program

* * *

# Additional Information

UBC Pediatrics provides each resident with an annual education stipend.
Residents can access these monies to attend and/or present at conferences,
purchase textbooks and offset other educational expenses during their
training.

Even if on rotation in Prince George, residents will join the Vancouver and
Victoria based residents in person for key educational events, including
orientation block, fall and spring retreats, Celebrate Research Day, careers
evening and an awards banquet in Vancouver. Residents will also attend OSCE
examinations in Vancouver (1 in the PGY1,2 and 3years, 2-3 in the PGY 4 year).
Mandated events include supported travel and accommodation.

Both individual and group mentorship programs exist. All residents are matched
to a multi-year mentorship group based in Vancouver. The resident group
provides peer mentorship for incoming R1s, assisting them to “learn the ropes”
and support the transition into a new and challenging residency program.

In the summer, we welcome our new trainees with a Garden Party. Our Annual
Awards Banquet in June is a time to honour and celebrate the accomplishments
of our residents, fellows and faculty members.

### **  
Accommodation:**

Details regarding housing and accommodation for mandated BCCH or rural
rotations are outlined in the PGME guidelines.

_  
A little bit about Prince George..._

The city of Prince George is situated on the unceded traditional territory of
the Lheidli T’enneh First Nation, part of the Dakelh (Carrier) peoples'
territory. Prince George is the northern capital of BC and is near the
geographic centre of the province. It is an 8-9 hour drive from Vancouver. A
direct flight is one hour. Prince George has a developing downtown scene with
an increasing number of quaint restaurants, coffee shops and stores. It has a
symphony orchestra, 3 theatres, an art gallery and a vibrant arts community.
There are many activities for children and families with outstanding indoor
sports facilities. Prince George residents are particularly fond of spending
time outdoors, regardless of the weather. Summers are pleasant and warm,
winters are snowy and often sunny. It rarely rains in PG. Winter sports are
highly popular, with world class cross-country skiing trails and an outdoor
speed-skating track available for public use. There are small local downhill
ski resorts nearby. Prince George is surrounded by numerous lakes; kayaking,
stand-up paddle boarding, boating and fishing are popular in the summer.
People also love hiking and camping, nearby or farther afield. Driving time to
Jasper in the east and Smithers in the west is about 4 hours. Traffic is
virtually non-existent; it takes no more than 20 minutes to drive from the
farthest reaches of PG, end to end. Housing prices are low and many family
medicine residents who come for 2 years of training buy their own homes.



And a little bit about Vancouver...

The City of Vancouver is situated on the unceded traditional territories of
the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh (Squamish), and səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-
Waututh) Nations. Vancouver is one of North America's most beautiful cities,
hosting a natural harbor, mountains, forests, and beaches. The city has a mild
maritime climate, yet it is in close proximity to snow-capped mountains and
outdoor winter activities while the Pacific Ocean is most suited for sailing,
sea- kayaking, swimming, diving and windsurfing.  Vancouverites enjoy a
vibrant, multicultural city with a plethora of international restaurants.

Public transit is available throughout the lower mainland by bus, sea bus, and
sky train. The Canada Line connects Richmond to downtown Vancouver and runs
along the Cambie Street Corridor.  From the stop at Cambie Street and 25th
Avenue (King Edward) it is a 10 minute walk to BC Children's Hospital.
Travellers can take bikes on public transit.

Bicycling is a key year-round form of transport, with over 1,400km of bike
routes (400 km on shared roadways with cars) throughout the Vancouver area.
The Central Valley Greenway, a 24 km pathway for cycling, jogging, walking,
skateboarding, blading and for those with wheelchairs, is a major
transportation and recreation route that links to multiple destinations across
the city.

* * *

# FAQ





* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27179?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27179