#  Dalhousie University - Cardiac Surgery - Halifax

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. David Horne  

Address Cardiac Surgery  
1796 Summer Street  
Halifax Infirmary, QEII HSC  
Halifax NS , Nova Scotia, B3H 3A7  

Work  902-473-5590

Websites of Interest

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Lindsay Anderson

Title: Program Administrator

Email: lindsay.anderson@nshealth.ca

Phone: 902-473-5590

  

Name: David Horné

Title: Program Director

Email: David.Horne@iwk.nshealth.ca

Phone: 902-473-5590

  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

####  

You must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident _**at the time of
application**_.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters are required. These should preferably include letters from
academic cardiac surgeons, university professors and elective supervisors who
can comment on your interest and aptitude for cardiac surgery as well as on
any exemplary personal skills or accomplishments.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

In less than 1000 words, please describe why you are applying to cardiac
surgery, and highlight features about yourself that you recon will be an
attribute that will make you successful as a cardiac surgery resident.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

The Residency Program Committee (RPC) includes 4-5 staff
surgeons/intensivists, our chief resident plus another resident
representative. This committee reviews and ranks applicant CV's from CARMS,
and selects potential candidates for interviews. This RPC plus the chief of
the division will conduct the interviews and complete the ranking process
after.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 23, 2025

Details regarding interview dates:  
Our interview date will be January 23, 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The interview (virtual) will consist
of the Residency Program Committee (4-5 staff surgeons, chief resident plus
another resident representative) along with the division chief. This committee
performs a standardized interview for potential candidates on one day, and
completes the final ranking list as well. Candidates are initially ranked
based on an averaged points system based on CV and interview, after which any
other applicable information from any of our complete clinical and
administrative team members will also be considered.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

All applicants are encouraged to apply and will be considered by the Selection
Committee (Residency Program Commitee). Interested applicants should
demonstrate the following:

\- A superior academic record

\- An elective at Dalhousie is not mandatory, but strongly reccommended  

\- Interest in, and knowledge of cardiac surgery as demonstrated by electives,
references and research projects relating to cardiac surgery

\- Exceptional maturity and ability to relate and interact well with patients,
families and coworkers

## Program goals

Our program goal is to train cardiac surgeons of the future. In order to reach
this goal we focus on:

1\. Residents being able to perform the breadth of adult cardiac surgery
procedures proficiently before the end of their training

2\. Residents being good clinicians outside of the operating room with
exceptional Cardiovascular Intensive Care Unit exposure and experience

3\. Residents passing the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
cardiac surgery final board examination

4\. Residents to have exposure and ability to perform directed research
including publication of work

## Selection process goals

Our program and university value the importance of equity, diversity and
inclusion (EDI) in residency education, and achieving a diverse and inclusive
group of residents is a goal in our selection process.

Candidates need to meet our essential skills criteria to be able to perform
and be trained as a cardiac surgeon (these will not be tested during the CARMS
interview or matching process):

  1. Adjusted auditory ability to respond to auditory stimulation in the OR without visual prompting
  2. Visual acuity and functioning after refractory adjustment, enabling normal vision and 3D or depth perception
  3. Advanced bilateral fine motor skills of the upper extremities including hands and forearms
  4. Ability to be upright in one location for extended periods of time

Candidates need to show evidence of interest in the field of cardiac surgery
(yet not an absolute criteria), have references commenting on surgical
aptitude as well as good interpersonal and professional skills. With the
advent of CBD, successful candidates need to be proactive, driven, organized
and computer/mobile device literate.

The goal of the selection process is to identify an individual that meets the
above criteria that we anticipate will fit well into our division.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team consists of the following members:
4-5 staff surgeons/intensivists, our division chief, our chief resident and
another resident representative.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Academic background, elective rotations, balanced lifestyle   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Related to Cardiac Surgery or cardiology/any other surgical field   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Grade evaluation   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Interests   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Community and institutional committee membership or leadership   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Grades   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Their interest in pursuing Cardiac Surgery   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Strong recommendations, especially surgical skills and aptitude   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Experience in research and publication   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Medical School and Undergrad   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work with other disciplines, other trainees and allied health workers   
Collegiality |  Ability to work within a team environment   
Communication skills |  Verbal and non-verbal   
Health advocacy |  Volunteer- or humanitarian work   
Interest in the discipline |  Electives and research   
Interest in the program |  Electives/research in our local program. Informal feedback from our current residents.   
Leadership skills |  Ability to take initiative and CV/reference letter evidence   
Professionalism |  In all interactions   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The program offers outstanding clinical training in all areas of cardiac
surgery. Residents are given a great deal of autonomy at quite a junior level.
The program offers a full range of established clinical and lab research
experiences in which all residents are expected to be involved in.

Our adult program performs 900-1000 operations annually ranging from CAD,
valve disease, heart failure including MCS (VAD's + ECMO) and cardiac
transplant, aortic disease, pericardial disease and device implantation for
brady-arrhythmias. Cardiac surgeons are involved in CVIVU care, and residents
are an integral part of care delivery in the CVICU including after-hours
coverage. Our pediatric and congenital division performs STAT 1-4 pediatric
cardiac surgeries, perform adult congenital surgeries and provide ECMO-care
for Atlantic Canada.

We place strong emphasis on continued resident research and involvement in
quality assurance and improvement projects, under the leadership of a
dedicated research director.

The Residency Program has a well established academic curriculum over a 2-year
schedule, with block examinations after each block (topic per block i.e.
aortic valve or MCS etc.).

Organized skills lab sessions occur every other month and includes 2-3 cadaver
sessions/year. RCPSC examination preparation is facilitated annually,
including extensive practice oral examinations from all staff surgeons.

A resident wellness representative also arranges social events for residents
with/without staff surgeons a few times a year.







* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 6 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**PGY1 and 2**

We have transitioned to Competency Based Medical Education (CBME). The
rotations have been designed to ensure that the Entrusted Professional
Activities (EPA's) are obtained through each phase (TTD- Transition to
Discipline, FOD- Foundations of Discipline) in the first two years.  
  

**PGY3 (flexible)**

Research academic enrichment year *see below



**PGY4 and 5**

The Core of Discipline (COD) EPA's will be completed during these two years.



**PGY6**

The Transition to Practice (TTP) EPA's should be completed within the last
year.



_Parallel resident training programs will continue (CBME vs. Old Program)
until 2026._

Research  
  

All residents are expected to engage in research projects during their
training. There is a complete clinical database of all cardiac surgical
patients from 1995 to present and there are links established to
administrative date/vital statistics, to allow for long term follow-up. Dr.
Christine Herman is our research director. We also have experienced clinical
researchers among our staff and several staff with established basic science
labs. In addition, our expectation is that residents take at least one full
year in either basic science investigation or formal outcomes research. We
strongly encourage residents to obtain graduate research degrees (MSc or PhD)
during their research time.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

The PGY1 and PGY2 years will have rotations at the QEII Health Sciences Centre
and IWK Health Centre Hospitals in Halifax as well as at the Dalhousie
affiliated New Brunswick Hospitals.

Facilities for research are located at the Tupper Building, Dalhousie
University and at the IWK Health Centre Hospital.

Electronic medical resources:

\- Two computers are available with internet.

\- Kellogg Medical Library

\- periodical resources

\- SAS and other statistics software

\- Access to complete MHC database of all cardiac surgery with hospital
outcomes and links to administrative databases for long term follow-up, and
full-time biostatistician.

NOTE: All residency programs are required to have 10% of their residency
training outside of Halifax Regional Municipality as stipulated in the most
recent Academic Funding Plan set out by the Department of Health and Wellness.
Please be aware that if matched to Halifax, community rotation sites
throughout the Martimes are available for rotations, up to 10% of the rotation
may take place in the community.

  

The program offers outstanding clinical training in all areas of cardiac
surgery. Residents are given a great deal of autonomy at quite a junior level.
The program also offers a full range of established clinical and lab research
experience in which all residents are expected to be involved.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26589?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26589