#  University of Alberta - Family Medicine - Edmonton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on October 25, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 7

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Michelle Morros  

Address Family Medicine  
5-16 University Terrace  
University of Alberta  
Edmonton, Alberta  

Work  (780) 492-9961

Fax  (780) 492-8191

Websites of Interest [ Family Medicine Residents' Association
](http://www.fmra.ualberta.ca/)  
[ Dept of Family Medicine ](https://www.ualberta.ca/en/family-
medicine/postgraduate/prospective-residents/index.html)  
[ AIMG website ](https://www.aimg.ca/)  
[ Facebook ](http://facebook.com/UofAFM)  
[ Instagram ](http://instagram.com/ualberta_dofm/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Erika Siroski

Title: Program Team Lead

Email: erika.siroski@ualberta.ca

  

Name: Dr. Juliana Rey Parra

Title: AIMG Director

Email: reyparra@ualberta.ca

Phone: 7804929961

  

* * *

# Important Information

The most up-to-date information about our programs can be found on our
centralized website at: [https://www.ualberta.ca/family-
medicine/postgraduate/prospective-
residents/index.html](https://www.ualberta.ca/family-
medicine/postgraduate/prospective-residents/index.html)

Multiple opportunities to meet with our programs residents, faculty and
administrators will be available throughout the CaRMS season. Please see
[CANPREPP - Edmonton](https://canprepp.ca/programs/university-of-alberta-
family-medicine-edmonton/) for dates and registration.

**AIMG PROGRAM**

Please read the following information carefully:

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) interested in postgraduate medical
training positions in Alberta are eligible to apply to IMG positions at the
University of Alberta provided they have applied to, and been assessed as
eligible, by the Alberta International Medical Graduate Program (AIMG)
Program. Please refer to the [Alberta Provincial
Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/) and [visit the AIMG Program website](http://www.aimg.ca/)
for details on deadlines, eligibility criteria, and the application process.

Alberta IMG Program (AIMG) Multiple Mini Interview (MMI) results:

Please note that the Multiple Mini Interviews (MMI) scores will be shared
directly to the residency programs by AIMG. MMI results are not submitted by
applicants.

All matched applicants MUST successfully complete an Externship before they
can proceed to residency training. Applicants MUST be available to start
Externship on their set date. CPSA licensure is mandatory for this component.
The AIMG Program will provide information on this process to successful
applicants.

All matched applicants must meet the licensing criteria for registration with
the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA) for postgraduate
education. Please review the requirements at www.cpsa.ab.ca. Any delays in
providing the required documentation to the CPSA may result in a delay in the
issuance of licensure and a delay in the start of Externship and postgraduate
training.

Residency programs determine the final outcome of Externship; the decision is
final and there is no appeal process.

**** ****

To complete an application for the University of Alberta's Urban Family
Medicine Program stream:

1) You will need 3 referees to **submit** the [Family Medicine Structured
Reference Form](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/sample-FM-structured-reference-
letter-CMG.pdf).

2) You must **complete** the Personal Letter as detailed in the “Additional
Documents” section. Please note that the guidelines for the letter differ
slightly between our urban and rural streams.

3) You have the **option of completing** the CaRMS Self-Identification
Questionnaire (CSIQ). The CSIQ is not currently being used as part of the
application or selection process. More information can be found in the
“Additional Information” section.

4) You must **complete** the FMProC (Family Medicine Professional Choices)
test as noted in the “Examination” section.

**FMProC**

All Family Medicine Residency Programs across Canada use the FMProC (Family
Medicine Professional Choices) in their selection process, which is a Family
Medicine-context specific Situational Judgment Test.

**All applicants to the University of Alberta Family Medicine Residency
Program will be required to write the FMProC for their application to be
deemed complete**. More details and information about registration for FMProC
can be found here:[https://fmproc.com/](https://fmproc.com/).

**Applicants should register early and take the test early during the testing
periods posted.**

**CaRMS Round 1:**

**Registration** : Opens 11th September 2024 Wednesday 12 noon ET, closes 7th
November 2024 Thursday 10AM  ET.

****Test Window:** Opens 28th October Monday 8AM ET, closes 11th November
Monday 10AM ET. **

* * *

# Return of Service

There are no return of service requirements at the University of Alberta.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

**_Candidates who match to our program are required to submit proof of ACLS
certification prior to their start date. Without ACLS certification,
candidates who match to our program will not be able to begin training on July
1._**



* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Please see the Alberta [provincial
criteria.](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/)

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) are required to provide proof of
English language proficiency as determined by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) who completed their medical education in
Quebec or at the University of Ottawa (French Stream) are required to provide
proof of English language proficiency as determined by the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

CMGs who completed their medical education at the University of Ottawa must
indicate on their application which stream they completed (either French or
English).

_For more information on the CPSA English language requirements, please visit
the  [CPSA website](https://cpsa.ca/physicians/registration/english-language-
proficiency/)._

Examinations

Required

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

National Assessment Collaboration (NAC) OSCE result is REQUIRED. Both pages of
the report must be submitted.  Please note that Alberta OSCE results are no
longer valid.

Shared through physiciansapply.ca to your CaRMS application.

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

Although not required at the time of application, if you have completed the
MCCQE1 please share your results to CaRMS through physiciansapply.ca. If not
available, it is expected that the candidate is in the process of applying for
and writing these exams.   The MCCQE1 results will be required if admitted to
the program.

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).



Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Please note that traditional narrative reference letters will NOT be accepted.
Please ask referees to submit a [FAMILY MEDICINE STRUCTURED REFERENCE
FORM](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/sample-FM-structured-reference-letter-
CMG.pdf), available on the CaRMS website.

Forms completed by physicians with whom the candidate has worked in a CLINICAL
setting are preferred.



Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Custom Résumé / CV

Detailed outline of medical practice experience

Please use the format below when providing details regarding your experiences.
Organize your experiences chronologically, with the most recent experiences at
the top of the document.

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sXtmww_4kGmyBU-
VrclwQ2TqPcKiKJJlkDGQxN0g9iU/edit?usp=sharing

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Instead of a traditional personal letter, please answer the following
**three** questions as your personal letter. When completing your personal
letter in the CaRMS.ca "Personal Letter" section, please copy and paste the
question stems above your answer.

1) Please highlight three things about yourself that you would like to ensure
we do not miss in our review. Items may include special skills or
accomplishments, or anything else you feel will strengthen your application to
UofA Family Medicine. Your answers will be used to evaluate your interest and
suitability for Rural Family Medicine as well as any connection to our
community. Maximum 75 words per item (Max 225 words total). Please do not
exceed the maximum word count.

2) First year family medicine residents are expected to be able to provide
hands-on patient care with minimal supervision, often from day one. This
involves independent decision making around diagnosis and management of acute
presentations (in hospital as well as in clinic) and may include ordering
investigations, prescribing medications or performing procedures. Please
describe how your clinical experience demonstrates your readiness for entry
into residency. Include where (the setting), when (how long ago and duration)
and what (examples of hands-on work as opposed to observing). (Max 100 words)

3) If you have applied to any of our rural programs, please describe any
special interest or connection you may have to a rural, regional or remote
community either in Alberta or not. Please use no more than 100 words. We
understand that not everybody who is interested in rural medicine actually
comes from a small town and as such, candidates without a specific connection
to a rural, regional or remote community will still be given consideration.



Alberta IMG Program (AIMGP) Multiple Mini Interview (MMI) results

**The AIMG Program will forward MMI results directly to our program. No action
is required from candidate in regards to MMI results.**

Optional - will be reviewed

Alberta IMG Clinical Assessment Placement

If you have completed a CAP, please submit a copy of your final report from
the AIMG Program's Clinical Assessment Placement.

Program questionnaire

**Sometimes applicants are worried about certain items or aspects of their
application. Using the[ Program Questionnaire
Template](https://drive.google.com/file/d/15dgZiafS0fXyOpNwdHd6sFPMAFh79HW6/view?usp=drive_link),
you may optionally upload this “Program Questionnaire” document to explain any
concerns you may have, for example, academic performance, professionalism
concerns, leaves or gaps in training, Family Medicine experience, or other. If
you have no concerns, please do not upload this document.**

Self-identification questionnaire

Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism in residency
selection. We invite applicants to optionally complete and include the CSIQ to
assist our understanding of the diversity of applicant pools, but the CSIQ is
not currently utilized as part of our application or selection process. We are
using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable opportunities
for all applicants.



* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

For details of our file review process please see "Selection Criteria"

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 24, 2025
  * January 25, 2025
  * January 26, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: **Family Medicine interview dates are:
January 24, 25, 26.**  Information about the interview process will be sent if
selected for an interview.  
  
All interviews will be conducted virtually. Please note that if you are chosen
for interviews and you have applied to both urban and rural programs, you will
only have one interview as they are combined. Dress code is business casual.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The Department uses the file ranking
to determine a cut-off level for interview invitations.  
  
  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

#1 - CaRMS Files

Factors that will be taken into consideration from the application file in
establishing the candidate's suitability in family medicine residency include:

  * Academic performance
  * Clinical performance
  * Family Medicine experience
  * References
  * Professionalism

#2 - Interviews

  * Communication skills
  * People skills
  * Desire to become a family physician
  * Maturity
  * Team player
  * Work ethic
  * Self-directed learning

##  

## Program goals

To produce competent, caring, full service family physicians with a passion
for serving their community.

The University of Alberta Family Medicine Program believes that the best
learning comes from exposure to as many clinical experiences as possible
including diverse settings and challenging levels of responsibility. As such,
many of our rotations require 24 hours, overnight call and many of our clinics
have long hours. We encourage all interested candidates to apply to our
program but would like you to be aware of this information as you consider the
best match for yourself.



## Selection process goals

The University of Alberta ideal candidate:

1\. Demonstrates a genuine passion for family medicine.

2\. Demonstrates a solid knowledge base and excellent critical thinking
skills.

3\. Demonstrates superior communication skills.

4\. Demonstrates a deep sense of responsibility to the community, including
diverse populations and multiple settings.

5\. Demonstrates adherence to the highest professional standards.

6\. Takes responsibility for their own well-being in order to ensure they are
able to fulfill their responsibilities given the physical and emotional
demands of a rigorous residency training program.



## File review process

Review team composition : The review team consists of faculty members (rural
and urban) with the IMG Directors and Selection Director.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 201 - 400  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  
The department uses the file ranking to determine cut-off level for interview
invitations.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Required; content evaluated as a supplement to the application.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Our program does not favour residents who do electives at our site or numerous electives in our specialty. We consider and value applicants with broad clinical experiences.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  FMProC: professional integrity, adaptability, team-working skills, empathy/compassion NAC-OSCE: medical knowledge, communication skills MCCQE1: scores are considered   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Work and volunteer experience; Canadian experience favoured.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Community service and engagement; organizations.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic proficiency, professionalism, leadership.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Required; details in additional documents section.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Medical expert, professionalism, communication, suitability for family medicine   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Relevance to primary care favoured   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic proficiency   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Electives will not be considered a requirement.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

It is beneficial to have completed electives and/or observerships in family
medicine somewhere in Canada. Experience in a broad range of medical settings
that demonstrates an interest in and aptitude for the values and skills of
family medicine will also be favoured.

Our program does not favour residents who do electives at our site or numerous
electives in our specialty. We consider and value applicants with broad
clinical experiences.



## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Not specifically evaluated at interview   
Collegiality |  Behaviour, attitude and ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Verbal, non-verbal skills and English (oral and written)   
Health advocacy |  Not specifically evaluated at interview   
Interest in the discipline |  Understanding of family medicine   
Interest in the program |  Connection to and/or interest in our community   
Leadership skills |  Involvement in teaching, mentoring, organizations etc.   
Professionalism |  Interactions with faculty, staff and residents   
Scholarly activities |  Not specifically evaluated at interview   
Other interview component(s) |  Clinical reasoning skills   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  The University of Alberta Family Medicine Program believes that all
potential applicants should endeavour to work to their best abilities and
behave in a professional manner throughout their training and/or professional
lives. Solicited or unsolicited feedback received regarding a candidate, in
particular relating to the medical expert, communicator or professional roles
MAY be considered if it is felt to be relevant and/or egregious and can be
reasonably verified.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**We are Caring, Dedicated, and Responsive**  
The main strength of our program is in its personnel. Our program leadership,
administrators, preceptors, residents, and in some instances our patients,
exhibit a true desire to provide excellent clinical care and prioritize our
resident’s training. Our program is exceptionally receptive to feedback and
responsive. Annually we hold a “resident feedback” session during an Academic
Day, to field organized feedback regarding areas of strength and improvement
from the entire resident cohort.  Examples of changes made to prioritize
resident learning and wellbeing include:

  * Addition and/or removal of rotations as learning experiences and clinical expectations change
  * Increasing flexibility of vacation scheduling
  * Simplifying residents’ experience in tracking graduation requirements
  * Introducing a “Transition to Residency” curriculum in block 1 of the R1 year
  * Increasing program assistance to Family Medicine Residents’ Association (FMRA) activity

****  
******Residents are a Priority**  
Residents are treated with the utmost respect as junior colleagues in our
program. We respect your status as adult, self-driven learners by providing
flexibility through electives, horizontal programming, and options for
integration.  We recognize that the breadth of Family Medicine’s scope can be
intimidating. To that end, our curriculum allows ample opportunities for
exposure to diverse clinical settings, including acute care. Maintaining a
balance between acute and outpatient care, resident wellness, and the clinical
confidence of our graduates is one of our highest priorities. We respect that
residency training can be demanding. To provide dedicated, individualized
support, we have a designated Assistant Program Director, Resident Support
whose main focus is to support residents in need, and to provide guidance for
navigating residency. Flex days, float days, educational days, and a recent
increase in vacation flexibility are additional ways we support resident
wellness. Post-call taxi rides (both to and from the hospital) are reimbursed
to ensure resident safety. ****  
******Our Graduates Are Prepared**  
Our curriculum is deliberate in its design to ensure residents leave our
program prepared to practice in any setting. Exposure to a solid foundation of
family medicine, bolstered by experiences in rural, acute, and specialty care
help to equip our graduates with the competencies they need to confidently
provide care to their patients and communities. Family physicians learn
throughout their career, and our curriculum helps our residents build skills
to continually adapt to a dynamic medical landscape. ****  
******Our Residents have Fun**  
Our program leans heavily on a sense of community. We have an active Family
Medicine Residents Association (FMRA) with regular social activities, a
welcome BBQ each summer, and a graduation celebration at the end of training.
Post-Covid19, we are actively reviving in-person, social activities to ensure
our residents enjoy time together, outside of clinical settings. Come join our
family - we would love to have you! **Clinical Highlights:**

  * Fantastic and enthusiastic preceptors who are passionate about teaching.
  * Continuity Clinics - 1 full-day back to your home family medicine clinic every 2 weeks.
  * Tailored Rural Family Medicine - up to 5 months of training can be rural.
  * Reproductive and sexual health integrated into your family medicine experience.
  * Optional integrated programming experiences in psychiatry, palliative care, care of the elderly, PCHT, etc.
  * Horizontal electives throughout Family Medicine rotations.
  * Electronic medical records in all Family Medicine Centres. 
  * NetCare online health records connecting Alberta Health Services medical centres and hospitals.
  * Connect-Care - Integrated electronic medical records across most hospital systems in Edmonton allowing dynamic, real-time informational continuity. [Connect Care](https://www.albertahealthservices.ca/cis/cis.aspx)
  * Interprovincial and international elective opportunities are available to residents.

  
---  
  
  
  
  
* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**First-Year Curriculum**  
---  
  | 

  * Foundations - 4 weeks (Block 1) - Completion of required courses (First Aid, NRP, PALS), workshops, and a general transition to residency.
  * Family Medicine - 20 weeks minimum -integrating maternity and newborn care, Behavioural Medicine workshops and opportunities for horizontal electives
  * Adult In-patient Medicine - 8 weeks. Experience will be divided between Internal Medicine and Family Medicine In-patient units.  
  * CCU - 4 weeks
  * Pediatrics - 6 weeks total  -  4 weeks Peds ER, 2 weeks community hospital based
  * Emergency - 4 weeks 
  * Obstetrics - 2 weeks
  * Vacation - 4 weeks - Can be taken all at once or split into 2 - 2 week 
  * Integrated Options - Care of the Elderly, Palliative Care, Psychiatry, Primary Care Hospital Teams. Internal applications for integration are reviewed once accepted to the program.** **
  * Continuity clinics - full day clinics every 2 weeks throughout residency at your home site for teaching and clinic continuity

  
  
**Second-Year Curriculum**  
  | 

  * Family Medicine - up to 16 weeks of family medicine may be spent with either urban or rural based community family physician(s). A minimum of 8 weeks of rural family medicine is required, but all 16 weeks can be done in rural location(s) should you choose.
  * Geriatrics - 4 weeks
  * Emergency - 4 weeks 
  * General Surgery - 4 weeks
  * MSK/Ortho Selective - 2 weeks 
  * Palliative Care - 2 weeks
  * Psychiatry - 4 weeks
  * Electives/Selectives - minimum of 12 weeks
  * Vacation - 4 weeks Can be taken all at once or split into 2 - 2 week 
  * Continuity clinics \- bi-weekly full day clinics at your home site for teaching and clinic continuity
  * Selectives can include: Family Medicine, Obstetrics, Primary Care Obstetrics, Intensive Care (ICU), Family Medicine Hospital or In-patient Team, Palliative Care, Inner City Medicine, Anesthesia, Long Term Care and others as approved individually.
  * Electives are chosen individually by each resident with the guidance of the resident's faculty advisor. Electives can include but are not limited to: Dermatology, Sports Medicine, Rheumatology, ER, Child Psychiatry, Cardiology, Diabetic Care, Ophthalmology, Plastics, Urology, etc.  They may include interprovincial and international experiences if approved.

  
  
**Academic Curriculum**  
  |  **Foundations Block "Transition to Residency"** The first block in R1 is dedicated to transitioning to residency. This will prioritize familiarization with your home clinic and faculty advisor, organized completion of mandatory requirements such as simulations, Pediatric Advanced Life Support (PALS), EBM workshop and others. This block also allows residents to connect with each other and build community and support.   **Academic Days (AD)** The Academic curriculum consists of 24 rotating monthly topics on a two-year schedule. Monthly academic days include small group case-based learning, journal review, ethics cases, practice exam (SAMP) questions, literature updates, and didactic lectures by family doctors and other specialists and professionals. We use online tools, including recorded video lectures to enhance learning. **Acute Care Simulation Sessions** **Exam Preparation -** Simulated Office Orals (SOO) practice exam workshops for R2’s Monthly practice SAMP questions for both years. **Evidence-Based Medicine Workshop (EBM) (2 days)** **Procedural Skills workshops** \- Including (but not limited to) IUDs, Endometrial biopsies, obstetric perineal repairs, central lines, lumbar punctures, joint injections, skin biopsies and excisions, and more. **Behavioural Medicine Workshop -** training in communication skills, ethics, and physician wellness **Resident As Teacher (RAT)** \- Residents will have sessions and education on how to be an effective teacher, and teach small group sessions to Y1 to Y4 medical students. **Practice Management   \- **Workshop for R2’s as they transition to independent practice **CASTED Course -** Enhanced Orthopedics Training **Point of Care Ultrasound Intro Course -** Introduction to the use of Ultrasound in Primary Care **Planetary Health** \- new initiatives being developed in collaboration with our Yellowknife stream. **Other Postgraduate Courses:** ACLS is required before a resident starts the program on July 1st.  ALARM, PALS and NRP courses are mandatory and will be coordinated with the 1st R1 “Foundations” block. Costs will be reimbursed by Alberta Health Services upon successful completion.  
  
**Research Opportunities**  
  |  All residents are required to complete **Practice Quality Improvement** projects to develop skills required to implement the process of quality assessment and improvement in the practice setting.   Residents interested in developing research skills have the additional optional opportunity to do a **research project**. The research project is supervised by a faculty member. Residents have the opportunity to do a **research elective** in either the first or second year of the residency program. During year 1, the research elective is offered as a 2-week horizontal elective, while in year 2 it can be 2-6 weeks. The research elective can be adapted to the needs of the resident. The **Family Medicine Research Day** occurs each year in June. Faculty members and residents have the opportunity to present their scholarly work (oral presentation and posters).  **The**Research Committee** of the Department is comprised of faculty and resident representation (one first year and one second year resident representative). The committee meets monthly during September to June and acts as a resource to family medicine residents on matters related to research and scholarly activity.**  
  
**Special Events and Conferences**  
  |  **In September, residents can participate in the Wilderness Retreat, which has been very popular every year and focuses on wilderness or remote medicine managing with limited resources in austere environments.  In addition, residents are allotted some money each year for conference registration fees.  In June, we celebrate the completion of residency with a Graduation dinner. **  
  


* * *

# Training Sites

**Teaching sites:**

  * Grey Nuns Family Medicine Centre
  * MacEwan University Health Centre
  * Misericordia Family Medicine Centre
  * Northeast Family Medicine Centre
  * Family Medicine Clinic - Kaye Edmonton Clinic
  * _Westview* Physician Collaborative Community Teaching Sites in Spruce Grove_
  * Community teaching sites (including those in St. Albert*, Leduc*, south and west Edmonton areas) affiliate with core sites for administration and academic activities. 

*Westview, Leduc and St. Albert sites are considered suburban or rural-like in their settings, utilize their local community hospitals, and each is located within a 15 minute commute from the city boundaries.

Inner City Stream:  Based at Radius Community Health Centre.

Women's Health Stream: Based at St. Albert Medical.

All residents enter an internal match after CaRMS for their choice of site.
Requests are considered based on interest and plans for future practice and
accommodated as much as possible.

**Other resources:**

Outpatient departments, family physicians' offices in Edmonton and rural
locations, specialists' offices, and other community hospitals outside major
metropolitan areas.

* * *

# Additional Information

**Driver's License**

A current driver's license and access to a vehicle are mandatory due to the
distance between teaching sites.

**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)**

The University of Alberta recognizes the importance of diversity, equity,
inclusivity, decolonization, and indigenization (EDIDI) and is committed to
the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry’s policy on anti-racism.

Further, the University is committed to implementing the Truth and
Reconciliation Commission calls to action that are relevant to education and
medicine.The pursuit of diversity and equitable opportunities is a core value
that guides our selection practices.

The University encourages applications from underrepresented groups, including
Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women,
persons of a minority gender identity or sexual orientation, and individuals
who would contribute to the diversity of the medical community. The CaRMS
Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) is an optional form that candidates
can fill out.

Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism in residency
selection. We invite applicants to optionally complete and include the CSIQ to
assist our understanding of the diversity of applicant pools, but the CSIQ is
not currently utilized as part of our application or selection process. We are
using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable opportunities
for all applicants.

  
  

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26403?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26403