#  University of Ottawa - Pediatrics - Ottawa  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 10 click here

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Stuart Harman  

Address Paediatrics  
Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario  
401 Smyth Road  
Ottawa , Ontario, K1H 8L1  

Work  613-737-7600 ext 2440

Fax  (613)-738-4864

Websites of Interest [ CHEO Pediatric Medical Education
](https://www.uottawa.ca/faculty-medicine/pediatrics)  
[ Canada's Portal for Residency Program Promotion - uOttawa Pediatrics
](https://canprepp.ca/programs/university-of-ottawa-pediatrics-ottawa/)  
[ Why Choose uOttawa for Medical Residency? Video Promotion
](https://youtu.be/YvKOt6Bt-sM)  
[ Instagram Page run by uOttawa Pediatrics Residents
](https://www.instagram.com/ottawapeds/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Mahitab Shahien

Title: Medical Education Assistant Coordinator

Email: mshahien@cheo.on.ca

Phone: 613-737-7600 ext 2285

  

Name: Dr. Brianna Empringham

Title: Interim Assistant Program Director

Email: bempringham@cheo.on.ca

  

Name: Dr. Vanessa Bohn

Title: Assistant Program Director (on parental leave until February 2025)

Email: vbohn@cheo.on.ca

Phone: 613-737-7600 ext 3955

  

* * *

# Important Information

**All candidates must meet the Ontario Criteria of Eligibility**  found
[here](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-criteria/provincial-
criteria/ontario/).



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English



All candidates must meet the Ontario criteria of eligibility.





* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  * Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  * Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  * Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  * Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

References should be from attending staff.

See Selection Criteria.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  600

  

Content should include:

  * why you are choosing pediatrics
  * reflection on your clinical experience to date
  * long term goals
  * reason for considering the University of Ottawa Pediatric Program
  * what you will contribute to the program environment

This letter is an opportunity to highlight anything that may not be reflected
in your CV. It can also be used as a place to explain anything atypical in
your application. If a particular aspect of your submission doesn't seem to
shine, the personal letter is a great place to share why that metric doesn't
truly capture how well-suited to our program you really are.

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

File review opens on November 29th, 2024.

The goal of the review process is to identify candidates who will both thrive
in our program and help our program thrive.

The ideal resident cohort is a team, with diverse but complimentary strengths
and skills. Common traits among our successful team members are motivation to
reach full potential, commitment to patients, and concern for the team as a
whole. If this describes you, then we hope to see you during interviews.

All files are reviewed independently by at least 2 reviewers, using a
standardized template to rank files for consideration of an interview. Our aim
is to have as fair and consistent a selection process as possible, and we
follow recommendations from the "Best Practices in Applications & Selection"
final report endorsed by CaRMS.

Once all of the files have been reviewed, applicants will be contacted
regarding an interview and interview details will be provided. Applicants not
granted an interview will also be notified.

Interview dates will be January 28th - 30th, 2025

We wish we could interview every excellent candidate, but alas, interview
spots are limited. We ask that if anyone realizes they need to cancel their
interview, notify us ASAP so that another colleague on the list can have an
opportunity.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 28, 2025
  * January 29, 2025
  * January 30, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be scheduled throughout the
day, in 2-hour blocks, preceded by an orientation.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process:

All interviews will be conducted as an online video interaction. Telephone
interviews will not be offered - video functionality is required.

Our interviews use the multiple mini interview (MMI) format. Candidates will
have several 10 minute, individual interviews administered by a multi-
disciplinary group of faculty and residents. Each interview will focus on a
different aspect of the candidate (eg. background, future plans, problem-
solving ability). One interview will be with our Program Directors.

We will also offer a virtual social event with our staff and residents, and a
virtual tour of our site.

* * *

# Selection Criteria

As opposed to an ideal resident, we seek an ideal group of residents whose
qualities and talents will compliment each other. It will be advantageous to
the candidate and the team if individuals are honest with themselves and with
us about what they bring to the table.

In the selection process, we are looking for evidence that a candidate has
shown continuous drive to better themself. We also want to see that candidates
appreciate multiple points of view, care about others, and can contribute to a
team. We are most interested in how residents have displayed these qualities
during medical school, as opposed to the period before medical school.

## Program goals

The purpose of our program is to train residents into high calibre
pediatricians. Certification from the University of Ottawa Pediatrics Program
signals that one is prepared to work in any capacity expected of a fully
trained pediatrician, and has the skill-set required to excel in further
subspecialty training.

Residents graduating from our program will be well prepared to meet their
career goals in the setting of their choosing, be it rural or urban,
community-based or in an academic center. We provide learning opportunities in
all these settings. In addition to a strong foundation in core pediatric
clinical skills and patient-centered care, our residents have exposure to all
the CanMeds roles including scholarly work, research, and health advocacy. Our
resident team is a close-knit group who are highly motivated and support each
other both at work and outside of work. They are integral to the functioning
of our program, and we highly value their leadership and input into all
aspects of their training. We provide our residents with a safe and supportive
learning environment where they are challenged to achieve their full
potential.

## Selection process goals

The University of Ottawa Pediatrics program aims to train excellent
pediatricians who are committed to optimizing the health and well-being of all
children, youth and families in the communities they serve. Selection criteria
are based both on current attributes and future potential, recognizing that
past behavior and achievements are the best predictors of future performance.

  * Candidates must have demonstrated a serious interest and aptitude in pediatrics, as evidenced through the file review and interview process. 

  * Candidates should demonstrate excellent communication skills. Although bilingualism is not necessary, a working knowledge of French is an asset.

  * Candidates should demonstrate a mature and caring approach to individuals from diverse ethnic, religious, and socioeconomic backgrounds. 

  * Candidates should have an inquiring mind. Experience or interest in research is an asset. 

  * Candidates should exhibit a strong ability to work within a team structure, especially in a multidisciplinary environment. 

  * Candidates should show capacity for health advocacy, whether it be at the individual, institutional or systems-level.

  * Candidates should be compassionate individuals with demonstrated skills in self-reflection to benefit from their residency education and develop skills in lifelong learning.

  * Candidates should have a strong work ethic and the aptitude to develop appropriate time management and coping strategies to manage the multiple demands of the profession. Evidence of having completed a significant long-term project or endeavour outside of the mandatory curriculum during medical school is highly valued.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our CaRMS Selection Committee is composed of a
diverse group of engaged general pediatricians and subspecialists from both
CHEO faculty and our associated community care providers. Residents do not
participate in file review but are an important part of the interview team.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 201 - 400  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Extra-curricular activities, involvement in the medical school/university community, involvement in the broader community, research experience/publications, prior education, employment experience. It is expected that candidates will have had different opportunities and different areas in which they excelled.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  A broad range of elective experience, with a demonstrable interest in paediatrics, is valued.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Involvement in academic, community or volunteer programs, including length and degree of commitment. Employment activities will also be considered. The more clear the connection is between an extra-curricular activity and the job/training requirements of a resident, the better. Extra-curricular activity during medical school is considered with more weight than that prior to medical school.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Participation in academic leadership role/community programs, including length and degree of commitment   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Review for “red flags” or academic awards   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  We recognize that personal letters are challenging to write. These are an opportunity for candidates to explain any atypical aspects of their application, to express their rationale for wanting to train in our program/city, and to help us understand why we want them specifically for our program.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Extent of relationship/supervision; work ethic, teamwork skills, screening for unprofessionalism. Reference letters must be from attending physician staff.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research experience, including degree of involvement in research projects; number of publications/presentations.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Review for “red flags”, gaps in training   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We are very understanding of the fact that limited space and opportunity may
prevent some excellent candidates from having an elective rotation at our
institution during medical school. Please rest assured that your applications
will not be viewed negatively for being unable to complete pediatric electives
at CHEO.



## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work within a team structure and collaborate with colleagues   
Collegiality |  Team-based mentality, insight into how one's actions affect colleagues   
Communication skills |  Approach to workplace conflict, difficult conversations   
Health advocacy |  Reflection on how physicians can support others to find their voice in healthcare systems   
Interest in the discipline |  Reflection on interest and aptitude for career in pediatrics   
Interest in the program |  Reasons for considering the University of Ottawa Pediatrics Program   
Leadership skills |  Characteristics of a good leader (eg. calmness under pressure, teamwork, motivating others) assessed throughout stations   
Professionalism |  Approach to bioethically sensitive topics; degree of insight and self-reflection   
Scholarly activities |  Opportunity given to discuss past research experience/scholarly activity   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  We do not actively seek out ancillary information on applicants, as
doing so has high potential for inconsistency and bias. The Selection
Committee does reserve the right, however, to discuss whether additional
information that comes to their attention can be ethically considered in the
selection process. A candidate with an outstanding warrant for their arrest,
for example, might have this counted against them even if the information is
not uncovered during the file review or interview process.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Quick Facts  
---  
  | 

> As a training program in an academic pediatric hospital, we achieve the
> optimal balance between supervised clinical practice and emerging
> independence and provide direct contact with a variety of expert faculty
> supervisors. This is enhanced by the involvement of engaged Community
> Pediatrics faculty. We are the only pediatric hospital in the region serving
> a large catchment area, which provides the opportunity for exposure to
> common pediatric conditions as well as those unique to tertiary care
> pediatrics, covering subspecialty representation from all disciplines.
> Residents are exposed to Community Pediatrics throughout their training and
> are provided with opportunities to complete rotations in rural and remote
> settings. Residents have an opportunity to pursue interprovincial and
> international electives (a supervisor and objectives must be identified, and
> approved by the Program Director).  We provide a rich on-call experience
> which allows for both night float systems and 24-hour call experiences. This
> is valued by our residents for its variety of clinical contact and
> continuous opportunities for on-call experiences in several areas of the
> hospital throughout the 4 years of residency. We have a strong research
> component in the department and an affiliation with the CHEO Research
> Institute. Residents who wish to further develop their research portfolio
> are well supported and mentored by several CHEO-based researchers with
> nationally and internationally recognized research programs. We encourage
> scholarly questions in a variety of areas including basic science, clinical
> practice, medical education, quality improvement and advocacy.  
  
* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The program meets the pediatric training requirements for certification by the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada and the American Board of
Pediatrics, and the licensing requirements of the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Ontario. The Competence By Design (CBD) curriculum launched in
2021. The 4 stages of CBD are mapped over 4 years, after which residents can
choose to apply to a subspecialty or enter practice. The Department of
Pediatrics at uOttawa includes academic general pediatricians, community
consultant pediatricians and academic subspecialists.

Our philosophy is geared towards providing a solid foundation in general
pediatrics and giving each trainee the pediatric experiences required for
their personal career goals. Residents, by the end of their training, should
have the confidence and skills needed to expertly practice general pediatrics
in any sized community, or to enter additional subspecialty training.

  
Our training site offers a multitude of experiences in a variety of hospital
and community-based settings, including: Adolescent Medicine, Anesthesia,
Advocacy/Social Pediatrics, Ambulatory Care, Cardiology, Child Protection,
Consulting Rural Pediatrics, Complex Care, Development, Diabetes Camp,
Emergency Medicine, Endocrinology, Gastroenterology, Genetics,
Hematology/Oncology, Infectious Diseases, Inpatient Medicine (CTU),
Metabolics, Neonatology, Nephrology, Neurology, Newborn Care, Orthopedics,
Palliative Care, Pediatric Intensive care, Mental Health, Radiology, Research,
Respirology, Rheumatology, SPOT/IV team, Surgery, Transport medicine.

**Transition to Discipline and Foundations of Discipline (PGY 1 to Early PGY
2)  **

The first two stages of residency will give the trainee a solid base in
general pediatrics. Residents will participate in an initial onboarding period
during Transition to Discipline. By the end of the Foundations of Discipline
stage, the resident will be skilled in the diagnosis and initial management of
less-complex pediatric conditions and presentations.

**Core of Discipline (PGY 2 to Early PGY 4)  **

Now that the trainee has acquired foundational knowledge of the field of
general pediatrics, the Core of Discipline stage is designed to provide a
deeper exposure to subspecialty areas of pediatrics and to encourage the
resident into taking a leadership role in the care of each patient. At this
stage the resident will progress into more senior and supervisory roles, where
the trainee is entrusted with the management of ward and/or ambulatory
patients, including those with complex problems. The resident also takes on
the responsibility of supervising more junior trainees. In the latter half of
this stage, the resident assumes supervisory roles both in their daytime and
on call activities. This stage encourages the development of skills in
prioritization, clinical judgment and increasing self-confidence. To encourage
the integration of knowledge from different areas of pediatrics, the resident
will work in both outpatient and inpatient settings.

  
**Transition to Practice (PGY 4)  **

The Transition to Practice stage is designed for the refinement of the
knowledge, skills, and attitudes learned in the preceding stage and provides
more flexible time to target training opportunities dependent on the
resident’s chosen career path and goals. Residents identify and work towards
meeting their own learning needs with a variety of experiences including
ambulatory and in-patient blocks, At this stage residents will progress to a
junior attending supervisory role in both inpatient and outpatient settings
and participate in longitudinal outpatient care.

**Rotations by Year (A rotation block is 4 weeks long)**

_PGY 1:  _Orientation/On-boarding, Healthy Newborn Care, Perinatal Medicine -
Junior Role, Clinical Teaching Unit - Junior Role (3 blocks), Emergency
Medicine, Infectious Diseases, Respirology, Community Pediatrics, General
Surgery, Orthopedics (1/2 Block), Vascular Access (1/2 Block)



_PGY 2:_ Clinical Teaching Unit - Senior Role (1 Block), Selective - resident
chooses from a list of experiences (1.5 Blocks), Night Float, PICU - Junior
Role (2 blocks), Perinatal Medicine - Senior Role, NICU, Haematology/Oncology,
Adolescent Medicine, Mental Health, Rural Community Pediatrics (typically in
North Bay, Ontario), Elective



_PGY 3:  _Clinical Teaching Unit - Senior Role (2 Blocks), Selective -
resident chooses from a list of experiences (2 Blocks), Night Float, Daytime
Float Senior, Neurology, Cardiology, Child and Youth Prtoection, NICU or PICU,
Emergency Medicine, Northern Community Pediatrics (Iqaluit or Whitehorse),
Elective



_PGY 4:_ Elective (3 Blocks), Selective - resident chooses from a list of
experiences (2 Blocks), Junior Attending (1.5 Blocks), Ambulatory Clinics -
resident chooses their own mix of subspecialty clinics, Night Float or Daytime
Float Senior (1/2 Block), Complex Care, NICU - level 2 or 3, Developmental
Pediatrics, Community Pediatrics



* Residents have up to 60 days (3 blocks worth) of protected time to work on their Scholarly Activity/Research Projects. This is spread over 4 years.

* Residents in 3rd and 4th year spend an average of 2 days per month in a longitudinal pediatrics clinic 

**Education and Assessments:**

Residents in our program have protected time to attend regular teaching
sessions in addition to an Academic Half Day. The Academic Half Day rotates
through a 3-year core curriculum that includes teaching in general and
subspecialty pediatrics as well as exploring topics related to other CanMeds
roles such as advocacy, leadership and professionalism. This structured
academic curriculum incorporates seminars, lectures, interactive discussions
and journal clubs, and is planned by the PGME Education Subcommittee, which
includes resident representation. Protected time includes weekly Residents'
Academic Half-day as well as Grand Rounds and monthly Patient Safety rounds
which provide excellent learning experiences for the residents. Multiple
simulation experiences in both acute care as well as communication skills are
also included. As in all Canadian Pediatric Residency Programs, formative OSCE
examinations and biannual MCQ/SAQ Canadian In-Training (CITE) practice exams
are held twice yearly (part of the national Pediatric Collaboration of
Canada), and all residents must pass a STACER (Standardized Assessment of a
Clinical Encounter Report) prior to graduation. Residents in the first three
years of training also write the annual American Board of Pediatrics in-
training examination every July.

**Scholarly Activities:**

Scholarly activity is a required component of pediatric residency training.
Each resident must lead or demonstrate significant contribution to a scholarly
project during their training. Their project can be related to any aspect
(research, education, clinical care, advocacy, quality improvement) of
Pediatrics. Our program offers excellent support, guidance and instruction
through expert faculty mentors and the resident Scholarly Activity Guidance
and Evaluative (SAGE) Committee. All residents must present their scholarly
projects at our program’s annual Resident Research Day, and many residents
also disseminate their scholarly work at national and international meetings
or through peer reviewed publications. Residents who wish to further develop
their research and scholarly activity portfolio as a major component of their
future career are well supported and mentored by several CHEO-based child-
health researchers with nationally and internationally recognized research
programs.



  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

 **The Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario -  401 Smyth Rd, Ottawa, ON K1H
8L1**

The Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO) is a tertiary care
children's hospital that provides the only pediatric inpatient services in the
Ottawa-Carleton region and serves a referral population of over 1,500,000. It
contains a Pediatric Emergency Department, a level 3 NICU, a PICU, multiple
Pediatric In-patient wards, a Pediatric Surgical Unit, and numerous Pediatric
Subspecialty Medical Day Units and services.

The University of Ottawa residency training program in pediatrics, based at
CHEO, has excellent patient volume and diversity in both the inpatient and
outpatient units. The program exposes residents to primary, secondary and
tertiary level models for provision of care to children. There are numerous
subspecialty rotations available, many of which also offer Royal College
accredited subspecialty training.

Our medium-sized hospital provides a work environment that is friendly and
supportive.  The focus is on patient- and family-centred care and the
multidisciplinary team highly values its resident members. The Postgraduate
Medical Education Committee carefully evaluates and incorporates feedback from
the residents through the Annual Resident Retreat and resident representation
on the PGME Committee.



**The Ottawa Hospital General Campus -  501 Smyth Rd, Ottawa, ON K1H 8L6**

Residents in our program spend some time in the NICU of the The Ottawa
Hospital (TOH) General Campus, which is connected by tunnel to CHEO. The
Ottawa Hospital has a birthing unit, and so the level 3 NICU at the General
Campus attends deliveries and offers a different experience than the NICU
within CHEO.



**Hôpital Montfort -  713 Montréal Rd, Ottawa, ON K1K 0T2**

Also known as the Monfort Hospital, this is the only hospital in Ottawa that
administers in French and the only Francophone academic hospital west of the
province of Quebec. Residents with reasonable comfort communicating en
Français will have some community pediatrics experiences at Hôpital Montfort.



**North Bay Regional Health Centre - 50 College Dr, North Bay, ON P1B 5A4**

Residents in second year have a remote community pediatrics rotation in North
Bay,  gaining experience in both office-based practice and in the North Bay
Regional Health Centre. Some residents may alternatively have a similar
experience with our academic partners in Sudbury or Thunder Bay.



**Qikiqtani General Hospital - Niaqunngusiariaq, Iqaluit, NU X0A 0H0**

In their senior years, residents spend a rotation providing pediatric care in
Canada's North. Qikiqtani General Hospital (QGH) in the Nunavut territorial
capital of Iqaluit on Baffin Island is the sole hospital in the territory, and
provides excellent experiences in triage, stabilization and cross-cultural
medicine. The residents highly value and evaluate this rotation, from the
clinical perspective but also for the opportunities it provides to experience
more remote Canadian geography and culture. Residents in 3rd year may
alternatively rotate through the Yukon and the Whitehorse General Hospital,
receiving a similarly rich cross-cultural pediatrics experience.



In addition to the hospitals described above, there are a multitude of niche
pediatric clinic opportunities within and around the city of Ottawa.





* * *

# Additional Information

Our program strives to give residents a voice in how it is run. We have strong
resident representation on our Resident Program Committee; the Program
Directors meet with the whole resident group in-person at monthly housestaff
meetings and with residents individually at twice yearly check-in meetings;
there are numerous resident-led committees (even one to determine what food is
served at events like academic half day), and residents are encouraged to
reach out to staff with ideas for enhancing the program. As long as training
objectives are met, patients get well cared for, and the work gets done then
there is always room for the Resident Program Committee to consider new
approaches to policy and procedure. This is only effective with a group of
residents motivated to learn and committed to the team. If that is you, we
believe you'll be at home here.



Residents in our program have an excellent track record of finding employment
or matching to the subspecialty training programs they desire.



We aim to train our residents into the colleagues we'll want to work with.



**Unique Opportunities:**

The rural/remote pediatric rotations in our program offer many unique
experiences.

Our longitudinal clinic experience begins in 3rd year, as opposed to 4th year,
with a large variety of potential placements.

Our Scholarly Activity Guidance and Evaluation committee works hard to ensure
that all residents are set up to succeed in their Scholarly Projects. The CHEO
Research Institute also provides robust resources for research success. Even
residents with limited prior research experience have an opportunity to
complete meaningful scholarly work.

Our program also offers several unique experiences in Advocacy, Simulation,
Wellness, and Patient Safety.







Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27368?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27368