#  University of British Columbia - Public Health and Preventive Medicine
including Family Medicine - Vancouver  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 20, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Trevor Corneil  
Dr. Sue Pollock  

Address School of Population and Public Health  
University of British Columbia  
137-2206 East Mall  
Vancouver , British Columbia, V6T 1Z3  

(604) 822-7646

Websites of Interest [ Website ](https://www.spph.ubc.ca/programs/residency-
program/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Trevor Corneil MD MHSc FCFP FRCPC

Title: Program Director

Email: spph.residency@ubc.ca

Phone: 604-822-7646

  

Name: Sue Pollock MD MSc FRCPC

Title: Associate Program Director

Email: spph.residency@ubc.ca

Phone: 604-822-7646

  

Name: Stephanie Milne BA

Title: Program Manager

Email: spph.residency@ubc.ca

Phone: 604-822-7646

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Both the standard PHPM and integrated PHPM-FP streams are available to
successful applicants to UBC PHPM program:  **

  * As of July 2024, UBC began offering a new integrated PHPM-FP stream which runs together with the standard PHPM stream for residents in our PHPM program.
  * A significant advantage of the new integrated program will be residents’ ability to move between the PHPM and PHPM-FP streams of training (and vice-versa) should they find their career interests broadening or narrowing during their PGY-1 or PGY-2 years. 
  * Applications for those interested in either the PHPM or PHPM-FP streams will apply to a single UBC PHPM CaRMS program listing (PHPM including FP).

**Applicants with prior graduate level coursework in public health:  **

  * For those applicants with previous graduate level coursework in public health including epidemiology and biostatistics, once accepted into the UBC PHPM program they may submit a request to the Program Director to obtain up to 12 months of credit for some or all of their academic training to date.  
  * Requests for credit will only be considered AFTER the final CaRMS match results and the applicant has been accepted into the UBC PHPM program. 

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

N/A

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

At least one of your three reference letters should be from a Public Health &
Preventive Medicine specialist. If you are considering the integrated PHPM-FP
stream, at least one of your two remaining reference letters should be from a
Family Practice physician.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

The personal letter is an opportunity to explain why you are interested in
PHPM and/or PHPM with FP as a career specialty. In addition to clinical
experiences, please self-reflect on personal characteristics and lived or
living experiences which may be relevant to both your residency training and
future career goals.

Custom Résumé / CV

The personal CV is an opportunity to highlight those clinical, educational,
work, research, and volunteer experiences that demonstrate an aptitude for and
interest in PHPM practice with or without FP.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Optional - will be reviewed

Self-identification questionnaire

UBC PHPM strives to be a diverse and inclusive community that is both a
welcoming and safe for all physician learners. We know that diverse learning
environments support more creativity and innovation in clinical and public
health practice. As future leaders in public health, establishing and
promoting equity, diversity, and inclusion as a priority for our residents
will have a positive impact on the health and wellbeing of all British
Columbians.  

As a program we recognize that the barriers and biases experienced by persons
in marginalized groups, and in particular those impacted by discrimination,
systemic racism and the legacy of colonization, continues to negatively impact
their ability to be heard and achieve recognition in the medical sciences. As
such, as a program we are proactive in our efforts to increase both diversity
and representation within our resident cohort.

We invite candidates to share their lived experience through the CSIQ and/or
their personal letters. The information collected will be used to ensure a
diverse group of candidates for interviews, and to add members to the file
review and interview panels who share similar identities and lived or living
experiences. It may also also be used to adjust final rankings based on the
advice of the selections committee and in the context of ensuring the
diversity of the current resident cohort.

Candidates are _**not required**_ to submit the CaRMS Self-identification
questionnaire, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so the information
received would only be used to advantage those who would contribute to the
diversity of our community. This information will be stored on a secure
password protected server, available only to the selections committee, and
program staff.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Applicants will be asked prior to
scheduling an interview for their preference of calendar date and morning or
afternoon. While we cannont guarantee an interview date or time, our program
will do its best to accomodate the needs of a given applicant.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: After review of the application
files, the program will offer interviews to selected candidates. Candidates
who have not received email notification via CaRMS online inviting them to an
interview will not move forward in the selection process.  
  
All 2025 R-1 match interviews will be in a VITUAL format - in person
interviews are not being offered. The interview panel will include two to
three clinical teaching faculty, the program director, and one or more
residents.  
  
Residents who are not involved in the interviews or final ranking process will
be available after a candidate's interview to answer questions about the
program and discuss their training experience.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Residents are selected on the basis of their academic record, personal letter,
letters of reference and interview. Candidates should demonstrate an
understanding of Public Health and Preventive Medicine (PHPM) and/or Family
Practice (FP), describe how their clinical, non-clinical, lived, and living
experiences have informed their decision to apply to UBC's PHPM and/or PHPM-FP
streams, and be able to articulate how PHPM specialty training with or without
FP will contribute to potential future career paths. Specific skills and
attributes of a successful applicant to UBC's PHPM program are described
below.  

## Program goals

**Vision**

A flagship PHPM program that attracts the best candidates from across the
country and paves the way for the public health leaders of our future.

**Mission Statement**

UBCs PHPM residency program trains collaborative, innovative, inspired,
reflective practitioners who can adapt to diverse needs of populations and
career opportunities. We do this by creating a positive learning and teaching
environment that supports and develops unique capacities and ensures
meaningful contribution.

**Program Goals**

  1. Create a positive and supportive learning environment that celebrates the unique aptitudes, career interests, and personal goals of our learners.
  2. Encourage a culture of inquiry and growth that supports the development of knowledgeable, innovative, and culturally humble public health practitioners.
  3. Build capacity for and excellence in public health practice and family medicine by leveraging the diversity of learning opportunities across BC.
  4. Develop competencies in public health leadership that meet the current and future needs of persons, populations, and health systems.
  5. Deliver a transparent, supportive, and well organized program that builds resilience and ensures resident wellness.

## Selection process goals

Summary of skills and attributes of a successful applicant in PHPM and/or
PHPM-FP:

  * Commitment to and interest in PHPM and/or PHPM-FP 
  * Conscientiousness, reliability, dependability and organization skills  
  * Service orientation, social conscience, and compassion  
  * Understanding of and experience with equity, diversity, and inclusion
  * Initiative, growth mindset, and desire to learn 
  * Stress tolerance, resilience and adaptability 
  * Teamwork, social and interpersonal skills, communication skills  
  * Integrity and ethics  

Details of skills and attributes of a successful applicant in PHPM and/or
PHPM-FP:

  * Commitment to and interest in PHPM with or without FP: demonstrated arc of interest in and experience with population and public health and an understanding of its clinical application across a variety of settings including family practice
  * Conscientiousness, reliability, dependability and organizational skills: consistently fulfills obligations in a timely and satisfactory manner; takes responsibility for personal actions and performance  
  * Service orientation, social conscience, and compassion: demonstrates a desire to help others and sensitivity to others' needs; demonstrates and understanding of the impact of health inequities on the health and wellbeing of individuals and their communities 
  * Understanding of and experience with equity, diversity, and inclusion: awareness of public health issues relevant to marginalized, colonized and racialized communities through volunteer work, medical training, or personal lived and living experience; familiarity with the concepts of dignity, belonging, and justice   
  * Initiative, growth mindset, and desire to learn: sets goals for continuous self-improvement and for learning new concepts and skills; assesses own strengths and weaknesses; solicits and responds appropriately to feedback  
  * Stress tolerance, resilience and adaptability: demonstrates tolerance of stressful or changing environments or situations and adapts effectively to them; is persistent, even under difficult situations; recovers from setbacks  
  * Teamwork, social and interpersonal skills, communication skills: works collaboratively with others, develops poitive relationships; demonstrates superior communication skills; acts professionally
  * Integrity and ethics; adheres to ethical principles and follows rules and procedures; encourages others to behave in honest and ethical ways  

## File review process

Review team composition : Each file is reviewed by one faculty and one
resident reviewer using a scoring sheet.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
20-50 applications received and reviewed

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Commitment to and interest in public health and preventive medicine with or without family practice, research, and leadership activities   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Clinical experience in speciality or rotations relevant to either/both specialties including applied epidemiology and research   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Results acceptable to the undergraduate or undergraduate medical program in which applicant was/is enrolled   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteer work in both medical and non-medical settings relevant to specialty   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Demonstrated leadership and interpersonal skills, professional behaviour   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstrated leadership and interpersonal skills, professional behaviour   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Understanding of and interest in specialities, experience with both clinical and non-clinical aspects of public health, understanding of and/or experience with equity, diversity, and inclusion including lived and living experience   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interactions with colleagues, patients and staff, aptitude for PHPM specialty, professionalism, growth mindset   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research experience and publications in areas relevant to specialty   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance in clinical rotations and academic courses relevant to specialty   
Other file component(s) |  Any MCC exam results (minimum requirements to successfully complete). CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (optional).   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

There is no requirement for electives to have been completed at UBC.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Understands the importance of and demonstrates capacities in working with others including peers, colleagues, and community stakeholders.   
Collegiality |  Demonstrates collegiality across a wide variety of clinical and non-clinical contexts.   
Communication skills |  Able to describe the importance of communication skills in the practice of population and public health through a variety of media.   
Health advocacy |  Articulates the importance of health advocacy in public health specialty and family practice, and describes experience in advocating for others.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrates commitment to and an interest in public health and primary care, understanding how these interests relate to public health specialty practice.   
Interest in the program |  Able to ask relevant questions and demonstrates knowledge of regional public health issues.   
Leadership skills |  Articulates the value of teamwork, social and interpersonal skills, demonstrates excellent communication skills.   
Professionalism |  Understands continuous self-improvement, demonstrates a willingness to learn new concepts and skills, and is able to assess own strengths and weaknesses.   
Scholarly activities |  Able to demonstrate and/or describe the importance of research and scholarly work in public health specialty practice.   
Other interview component(s) |  Equity, diversity, and inclusion (EDI): understanding of and/or experience with EDI, and an ability to think critically about EDI. This can be through clinical, non-clinical, lived and/or living experience. Familiarity with the concepts of dignity, belonging, and justice.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

At UBC we are excited to offer a newly redesigned competency based Public
Health & Preventive Medicine (PHPM) program with both standard and integrated
Family Practice (FP) streams.

Historically, postgraduate residents pursuing both PHPM and FP certification
were enrolled in separate training programs at UBC. As of July 2024 we began
offering our new integrated PHPM-FP stream which runs together with the
standard PHPM stream for residents in our PHPM program. The PHPM-FP stream is
both funded and operated by the PHPM program as a satellite "program site" of
the UBC FP program, focusing on rotations and learning experiences that are
most relevant to achieving competencies in both specialities.

With an overarching theme of Health Equity, the PHPM-FP stream will include
both block and longitudinal components that focus on inner-city, Indigenous,
and rural-remote persons, communities, and populations. Spread out over 36
months during the PGY-2 through PGY-4 years, the length of FP training itself
will meet the minimum 24-month training requirements of the CFPC.

A significant advantage of the new integrated program will be residents’
ability to move between the PHPM and PHPM-FP streams of training (and vice-
versa) should they find their career interests broadening or narrowing during
their PGY-1 or PGY-2 years. Applications for those interested in either the
PHPM or PHPM-FP streams will apply to a single UBC PHPM CaRMS program listing.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Overview**

The PHPM program at UBC is a 5-year specialty program that meets or exceeds
the training requirements of the RCPSC and (if relevant) the CFPC.

UBC PHPM delivers a competency-based PHPM curriculum organized into eight core
vertical content dimensions: communicable disease, environmental health,
health promotion, MHSU-harm reduction, emergency management, leadership, and
health policy. Core cross-cutting content dimensions include indigenous
health, communication skills, professionalism, and advocacy. This aligns well
with the RCPSC transition to CBD scheduled for July of 2025. Residents in the
standard PHPM stream, will have the opportunity in their final year to
specialize in areas within or complementary to PHPM.

Residents sub-specializing in primary care, will follow the PHPM-FP integrated
stream with rotations and learning experiences that are most relevant to
achieving competencies in both specialities. They will complete the CFPC
Triple C competency based curriculum encompassing: foundations of the doctor-
patient relationship, health equity and community care, maternity and newborn
care, care of children and adolescents, care of adults, care of elderly,
palliative and end of life care, mental health & addictions care, and surgical
and procedural skills.

While the UBC's PHPM program is based in Vancouver for PGY-1, residents will
have the option of completing up to 36 months of their PGY-2 through 5
training in a city/cities around the province including Surrey, Victoria,
Kelowna, and Prince George. All PHPM-FM residents are required to complete a
minimum of 8-12 months of training outside BC's Lower Mainland. At UBC funding
is provided by PGME for all travel expenses including transportation and
housing for all mandatory rotations outside a resident's home city and within
BC.

**PGY-1 Academic Foundations**

Following a two-month introductory public health rotation, resident in their
PGY-1 year complete graduate level coursework and a practicum leading to a
PHPM specific 42 credit Master of Public Health (MPH) at UBC. Residents
develop foundational knowledge and skills including epidemiology,
biostatistics, communicable disease, environmental health, and other relevant
areas prior to starting their clinical Public Health & Preventive Medicine
(PHPM) training experiences.

  * Those applicants who are interested in pursuing an MSc or PhD degree instead of or in addition to the MPH should discuss with the program director _ __AFTER  _they have been accepted into the UBC PHPM program. 
  * Those applicants with previous graduate level coursework in public health including epidemiology and biostatistics may submit a request to the competency committee to obtain up to 12 months of credit for some or all of their academic training to date.  Requests by applicants for academic credit will only be considered AFTER they have been accepted into the UBC PHPM program. 

**PGY-2 to PGY-4 Clinical Foundations and Core Training**

Residents in the standard PHPM stream complete a 12 month basic clinical
training year at St. Paul's Hospital in Vancouver, with a focus on direct
patient care rotations relevant to public health practice residents will gain
exposure to persons living in or frequenting Vancouver's inner-city
communities. This is followed by 12 months of core general public health
practice rotations in urban, regional, and rural health regions around the the
province, and 12 months of core speciality public health practice at health
agencies including BCCDC, WorkSafe BC, and the Office of the PHO.

Residents in the PHPM-FP stream complete both block and longitudinal direct
patient care rotations that focus on inner-city, Indigenous, and rural-remote
persons, communities, and populations. Spread out over 36 months, the length
of FP training itself will meet the minimum 24-month training requirements of
the CFPC and include 6 months each of core general and specialty public health
practice.

**PGY-5 Elective and Transition to Practice**

Residents in the standard PHPM stream will complete up to 12 months of
specialty elective practice in areas within or complimentary to PHPM which can
include but is not limited to field general public health practice,
epidemiology, communicable disease, environmental health, occupational
medicine, addictions medicine, and preventive medicine. Resident in the PHPM-
FP stream will complete the final 6 month each of core general and speciality
public health practice training. All residents will participate in examination
preparation and complete a transition to practice rotation.

**Research**

All residents are expected to complete one major and several minor research
projects over the course of their PHPM training. There are opportunities for
additional research electives and training experiences during both core and
elective components of the program.  

**Seminars**

Academic Half Day (AHD) is a credit-based course at UBC's School of Population
and Public Health held most Friday afternoons. Seminars include public health
practice, applied epidemiology and research, fellowship exam preparation, and
resident wellness learning activities.  

* * *

# Training Sites

Core academic training is undertaken in the Master of Public Health program at
UBC's School of Population and Public Health at the Point Grey Campus. All
courses are delivered in-person with some opportunities for hybrid learning.

Core basic clinical and family practice training rotations are undertaken
primarily at St. Paul's Hospital and outpatient clinics within BC's Lower
Mainland. Core general and specialty public health practice rotations are
undertaken in regional health authorities and provincial agencies in
Vancouver, BC's Lower Mainland, and in cities around the province. All
residents are required to complete a minimum of 4 months of training outside
of Vancouver and BC's Lower Mainland. Residents can spend up to 24 months of
training outside Vancouver and BC’s lower mainland.  

  * _General rotations_ are typically with Medical Health Officers in regional and provincial health authorities including Fraser Health, Interior Health, Island Health, Northern Health, and Vancouver Coastal Health. 
  * _Specialty rotations_ are with PHPM specialists at agencies including BC Centre for Disease Control, WorkSafe BC, First Nations Health Authority, BC Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS, and the Office of the Provincial Health Officer.



* * *

# Additional Information

UBC PHPM strives to be a diverse and inclusive community that is both a
welcoming and safe for all physician learners. We know that diverse learning
environments support more creativity and innovation in clinical and public
health practice. And as future leaders in public health, establishing and
promoting equity, diversity, and inclusion as a priority for our residents
will have a positive impact on the health and wellbeing of all British
Columbians.  

As a program we recognize that the barriers and biases experienced by persons
in marginalized groups, and in particular those impacted by discrimination,
systemic racism and the legacy of colonization, continues to negatively impact
their ability to be heard and achieve recognition in the medical sciences. As
such, as a program we are proactive in our efforts to increase both diversity
and representation within our resident cohort.

We encourage applications from members of groups that have been marginalized
on any grounds enumerated under the B.C. Human Rights Code, including sex,
sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, racialization, disability,
political belief, religion, marital or family status, age, and/or status as a
First Nation, Metis, Inuit, or Indigenous person.

All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however Canadians and
permanent residents of Canada will be given priority.

  * Please visit the [UBC SPPH MPH website](https://spph.ubc.ca/programs/mph/) for information about academic training in UBCs MPH program.
  * Please visit the [UBC PHPM program pathways website](https://spph.ubc.ca/programs/residency-program/program-pathway/) for information about clinical training in UBCs PHPM.   
  * Please visit the [UBC PHPM website](https://www.spph.ubc.ca/programs/residency-program/) for full program details.



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27405?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27405