#  Dalhousie University - Anesthesiology - Halifax  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on October 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 6

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Shannon Bradley  

Address Anesthesia, Pain Management and Perioperative Medicine  
QEII Health Sciences Centre, VG Building  
1276 South Street, Rm 231C  
Halifax, Nova Scotia, B3H 2Y9  

Work  (902) 473-2325

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Department of Anesthesia, Pain Management &
Perioperative Medicine ](http://anesthesia.medicine.dal.ca/department-
home.php)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Shannon Bradley

Title: Program Director

Email: slbradle@dal.ca

Phone: (902) 473-2325

  

Name: Dr. Andrew Jarvie

Title: Associate Program Director

  

Name: Mr. Allister Barton

Title: Education Manager

Email: allister.barton@dal.ca

Phone: 902-473-2325

  

* * *

# Important Information

Any information included on requested documents submitted to CaRMS, as well as
all interactions throughout the CaRMS process, may be taken into account
during a candidate's review and assessment.

Our program values the importance of equity, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) as
a goal in the selection process.

To help inform and advance EDI in our selection process we are pleased to
offer the option to submit the voluntary CaRMS Self Identification
Questionnaire. Additionally, there is an additional verification process for
Indigenous membership or citizenship. Please see sections below for further
information

If you require any support for the purpose of accommodation, specifically to
reduce or remove barriers to equitable candidate assessment, please do not
hesitate to notify us at the time of accepting an interview.

To obtain a postgraduate training license after the conclusion of the match,
Canadian Medical Graduates (CMG's) must have registered and challenged the
Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Exam Par 1 (MCCQE 1) by July 1, 2025.
Those unsuccessful in the exam are subject to the decision of the regulatory
authority regarding licensure.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

####  

You must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident _**at the time of
application**_.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Reference letters from attending staff are preferred. If more than 3 reference
letters are submitted, your application will not be reviewed.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

A narrative (up to a maximum of 500 words) is required outlining:

  * The attributes that make you a good physician 
  * A time in your non-medical life that you faced failure or adversity and what you learned from that
  * Why you want to train in the Dalhousie Anesthesia program

Consider commenting on any failures, leaves of absences, etc. during your
previous education showing what you have learned from that experience. Only if
you feel that your application doesn't demonstrate well your interest in
anesthesia (due to late decision to pursue for example) you may also explain
this in your letter.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry

**Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry and/or Self-Identification of Black
Learners**

We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. Any responses received will be used only to support our
program’s and Dalhousie’s equity, diversity, and inclusion goals.

We invite applicable candidates to also complete Dalhousie’s verification
process for Indigenous identity, membership, or citizenship; or the self-
identification process for those who identify as Black.



**Conditionally required**

Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry

If you have self-identified as Indigenous, we require additional information.

Applicants shall provide a certified copy of one or more of the following
documents with their application:

  1. A Certificate of Indian Status issued by the Government of Canada, or a First Nation recognized by the Government of Canada;
  2. Written confirmation of membership or citizenship with a federally recognized band or tribal authority in the United States or Canada;
  3. Written confirmation of Inuit enrolment or a copy of an Inuit enrolment/beneficiary card issued by a modern Inuit treaty organization or government as follows:  
3.1 Inuvialuit Regional Corporation;  
3.2 Nunavut Tunngavik Incorporated;  
3.3 Makivik Corporation;  
3.4 Nunatsiavut Government;

  4. Written confirmation of Métis citizenship/membership or a copy of a Métis citizenship/membership card provided by a Métis government as follows:  
4.1 Métis National Council governing members:  
4.2 Métis Nation – Saskatchewan;  
4.3 Métis Nation of Alberta;  
4.4 Métis Nation British Columbia;  
4.5 Métis Nation of Ontario;  
4.6 Manitoba Métis Federation;  
4.7 Métis Settlements of Alberta.

Applicants who do not supply any of the documents listed above shall supply a
250-word statement with applicable supporting documentation that demonstrates
how they meet the citizenship or membership criteria established by the
recognized Indigenous nation to which they claim membership or citizenship.

The above information is only made available to Dalhousie PGME, Program
Director, and Program Manager of applicable training programs and will only be
used for purposes of the CaRMS matching process.

Please see below for the certification of documents.

# Certification of Documents

Documents may be certified by one of the following professionals:

  1. Accountant
  2. Chief of a First Nations Band
  3. Commissioner for Oaths
  4. Employee of a Service Canada Centre acting in an official capacity
  5. Funeral Director
  6. Justice of the Peace
  7. Lawyer, Magistrate, or Notary
  8. Manager of a Financial Institution
  9. Regulated Medical or Health Practitioner
  10. Member of Parliament or their staff
  11. Member of a Provincial/Territorial Legislature or their staff
  12. Minister of Religion
  13. Municipal Clerk
  14. Official of a Federal/Provincial/Indigenous Government Department or one of its agencies
  15. Official of an Embassy, Consulate, or High Commission
  16. Police Officer
  17. Professional Engineer
  18. Social Worker
  19. Teacher
  20. University Professor or Staff

The person certifying the document(s) must:

  1. Compare the original to the copy
  2. State their official position or title
  3. Print their name
  4. Sign their name
  5. Write the date they certified the document
  6. Provide their telephone number
  7. Write the following statement: This is a true copy of the original document, which has not been altered in any way

**Conditionally required**

Self-identification Process for Black Learners

If you self-identify as Black, please complete the following questions, and
include with your application:

1\. **Do you self-identify as Black?**

Yes/No

2.**If yes, please choose the category you identify most with:**

a. African Nova Scotian*

b. Black Maritimer

i. Nova Scotia without ties to a historic African Nova Scotian community

ii. New Brunswick

iii. Prince Edward Island

c. Black Canadian

d. Multiracial

i. African Nova Scotian and ______

ii. Black Maritimer and ________

iii. Black Canadian and _________

iv. Black and Indigenous

3\. **In 500 words or less, please speak to the self-identification category
you chose above. Include things to highlight your connection to Black
community as well as your lineage. If you chose African Nova Scotian, note
Dalhousie uses the following definition from the African Nova Scotian
Strategy, and we ask you speak to your specific land-based community.**

* “African Nova Scotians are a distinct People who descend from free and enslaved Black Planters, Black Loyalists, Black Refugees, Maroons and other Black people who inhabited the original 52 land-based Black communities in that part of Mi’kma’ki known as Nova Scotia.” ([African Nova Scotian Strategy](https://www.dal.ca/about/mission-vision-values/equity-diversity-inclusion-and-accessibility/about-office-equity-inclusion.html#:~:text=WHAT%20IS%20THE%20AFRICAN%20NOVA,with%20African%20Nova%20Scotian%20communities))



All self-identification documentation will be reviewed by the Black faculty
leadership within the Faculty of Medicine.



Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire or to complete Dalhousie’s verification process, but for those
that do feel comfortable doing so the information received would only be used
to advantage those who would contribute to the diversity of our community.

Optional - will be reviewed

Self-identification questionnaire

We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. Any responses received will be used only to support our
program’s and Dalhousie’s equity, diversity, and inclusion goals.

Additionally, we invite applicable candidates to also complete Dalhousie’s
verification process for Indigenous identity, membership, or citizenship.

Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire or to complete Dalhousie’s verification process, but for those
that do feel comfortable doing so the information received would only be used
to advantage those who would contribute to the diversity of our community

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Incomplete applications will not be considered. Late reference letters may be
considered under extenuating circumstances only.

If additional documents NOT requested (ie a separate CV) ARE included, the
file may NOT be reviewed.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 18, 2025
  * January 19, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: All candidates selected for an interview
will be notified on or before December 31, 2024. You will be notified via
email on the process of how to book your interview. Interviews are scheduled
for Saturday and Sunday, January 18-19, 2025.  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The interview will be in the format
of MMI (Multiple Mini Interviews).  There will be an opportunity to meet
(virtually) with some of the current residents.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Applicants are chosen based on the following characteristics (in no particular
order):

  * Aptitude for independent learning and organization
  * Interest in, and knowledge of, the specialty
  * Academic potential
  * Aptitude for anesthesia - technical and non-technical
  * Ability to handle stress
  * Communication skills
  * Team work
  * Leadership potential
  * Professionalism
  * Scholarly interests (research, education, QA, etc)
  * Participation in extracurricular activities
  * Diversity
  * Interest in Dalhousie Anesthesia Program
  * Interest in practicing in the Maritime provinces (New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, and Prince Edward Island)

## Program goals

Dalhousie University has the ongoing goal of implementing a first-rate
anesthesia residency program designed to train physicians capable of
delivering an outstanding level of patient care consistent with requirements
of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada (RCPSC). Our program
strives to ensure its residents reflect the communities they serve, and as
such welcome and encourage applications from all qualified individuals of any
race, national or ethnic origin, colour, religion, age, gender, or sexual
orientation.

Dalhousie's mid-sized program allows for more individualized attention through
the residency process, ensuring continued progression of your confidence and
knowledge in the areas of specialty skills, judgment, professional
responsibility and clinical independence is expected over the five years of
anesthesia training. Upon completion of this training, our residents are able
to demonstrate their competency as a specialist anesthesiologist, capable of
assuming a consultant's role in the specialty. By the conclusion of the
program, residents will also be able to demonstrate the knowledge, skills and
attitudes relating to gender, culture and ethnicity pertinent to anesthesia
practice. In addition, all residents will be able to demonstrate an ability to
incorporate gender, cultural and ethnic perspectives in research methodology,
data presentation and analysis. In the course of developing these important
skills, Dalhousie's program prides itself in ensuring resident wellness and
work-life balance remains a priority.

## Selection process goals

The characteristics listed below describe the areas of priority we are looking
for in candidates, we realize not everyone excels at all aspects and we are
aiming to choose well-rounded individuals that will thrive in our program, the
table below outlines where we are primarily evaluating the different
characteristics. We are looking for a diverse group of residents with the aim
of training anesthesiologists for both academic and community settings.

Dalhousie is committed to fostering a collegial culture grounded in diversity
and inclusiveness. The university encourages applications from Indigenous
persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women, persons of a
minority sexual orientation and/or gender identity, and all candidates who
would contribute to the diversity of our community.

Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire or to complete the verification process for Indigenous identity,
membership, or citizenship, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so
the information received would only be used to advantage those who would
contribute to the diversity of our community.

Any self identification questionnaires received and the results of the
verification process will be reviewed as part of our file review process, and
used as an aid for file reviewers in selecting a diverse group of candidates
for interviews. Information received may also be used by the program to adjust
final rankings, at the discretion of the selection committee, to address
issues of program priority and diversity."



Resident Selection Criteria |  File Review |  Interview  
---|---|---  
Aptitude for self-directed learning and organization |  X |  X  
Interest/Knowledge of Specialty |  X |  X  
Academic Potential |  X |     
Aptitude for anesthesia |  X |     
Ability to handle stress |  X |  X  
Communication skills |  X |  X  
Team work |  X |  X  
Leadership potential |  X |     
Professionalism |  X |  X  
Scholarly Interests |  X |  X  
Extra -curricular activities |  X |  X  
Interest in Dal Program |  X |  X  
Interest in practicing in the Maritimes |  X |     
Self-Identification Questionnaire |  X |    
  
## File review process

Review team composition : The selection committee will include the Program and
Associate Program Directors, Residents, Office of Education staff and Faculty
members. The committee aims for a diversity of background, academic experience
and clinical sites. Each file is reviewed and scored by a minimum of 3
reviewers.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
Approximately 160 per year.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We do not evaluate this file component separately   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Interest in anesthesia and variety of electives   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Interests in general, volunteering, time management   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  If any, including mentoring   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Performance   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Writing ability, attention to detail, and how your narrative addresses the requested components   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interactions with colleagues and patients, aptitude for anesthesia   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Previous experience and future interest   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance, clinical evaluations   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We recognize that not all interested applicants are able to secure an elective
with us and do take this into consideration.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Positive, respectful interactions   
Collegiality |  Work together towards common goals   
Communication skills |  Clear, concise and respectful, active listening   
Health advocacy |  Appreciation of social determinants of health and importance of health advocacy   
Interest in the discipline |  Not evaluated in interview   
Interest in the program |  Interest and connections to the Maritimes   
Leadership skills |  Engaged, proactive, motivates and builds a team   
Professionalism |  Accountable to team, willing to admit to mistakes and learn from them, respectful   
Scholarly activities |  Not evaluated in interview   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

As a resident in Dalhousie Anesthesia, Pain Management & Perioperative
Medicine you will gain the clinical, academic, research and professional
experience you need to become a highly competent, compassionate
anesthesiologist and leader in the field. You will be well supported to meet
your training goals and well prepared to pass the Royal College of Physicians
& Surgeons exams.

It is highly competitive to enter our five-year residency program. We receive
about 160 applications each year from qualified medical students in Canada.

Some highlights as identified by our residents:

  * Size of the program - big enough for good experience but small enough that everyone knows you
  * Supportive and organized office of education to support resident experience
  * Staff to learner ratio, lots of one-on-one teaching opportunities
  * Global health program and opportunities
  * Research office support for the resident research program
  * Welcoming and friendly city and program

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Stages of Training**

The Anesthesia Program contains four levels of training: [Note: one block is 4
weeks]

  1. Transition to Discipline - 2 blocks of orientation in non-subspecialty anesthesia
  2. Foundations - 22 blocks of fundamental anesthesia, medicine, surgery, pediatrics, obstetrics, critical care, pain/regional, and elective or formal enhanced learning plan
  3. Core - 28 blocks of subspecialty anesthesia, medicine, critical care, and elective or formal enhanced learning plan
  4. Transition to Practice - 13 blocks allocated but may be completed in a minimum of 5 blocks; includes complex anesthesia, obstetric anesthesia, pediatric anesthesia, critical care, teaching, and elective



**Transition to Discipline**

This 8 week stage emphasizes the orientation and assessment of new trainees
arriving from different medical schools and programs.  It includes orientation
to academic, administrative and clinical components required to succeed early
in the Dalhousie Anesthesia Program.  New residents are matched with 3
clinical mentors who they will work with over the 8 weeks, one of whom will
become the residents' academic advisor for their residency program.  The
clinical orientation also includes basic teaching sessions and an intensive
simulation curriculum on the management of common intraoperative problems.



**Foundations**

This 22 block stage covers broad-based competencies that every trainee must
acquire before moving on to more advanced, discipline-specific competencies.
The stage is comprised of 9 modules including:  Airway and ENT, Perioperative
Medicine, Surgery, Obstetrics, Pediatrics, Cardiovascular, Pain and Regional,
Emergency and Critical Care.  Each module helps the resident to focus on basic
assessment and knowledge of anatomy, physiology, and pharmacology combined
with their application to anesthesia.  For example, the ENT and Airway module
includes one block on ENT surgery and one block of Airway anesthesia.  The
Obstetrics module includes one block of obstetrics and one block of
obstetrical anesthesia.  The rotation designated as "PLB (Personal Learning
Block)" can be used for research, elective or a formal enhanced learning plan
and allows for flexibility within the Program.



**Core**

This stage includes all the major subspecialty areas that make up the
discipline.  Residents rotate through 13 modules over 28 blocks.  Modules
include Pediatrics, Neuro, Obstetrics, Cardiovascular, Thoracic, Complex
Surgery, Community and Out of OR anesthesia as well as Perioperative Medicine,
Pain and Regional, Emergency and Critical Care Medicine and Other.  



**Transition To Practice**

This stage of residency is designed to promote independent practice.
Residents will complete a minimum of 5 blocks including Pediatrics,
Obstetrics, Complex Surgery, and Community anesthesia as well as Critical
Care.  The other 8 blocks can be used for electives or research.  Most
residents will require the full 13 blocks however it may be possible to finish
early if the resident is able to defend their portfolio to show that they have
met all the required competencies and training elements.







**Research**  
  

There is a formal course on research methodology and critical appraisal. There
are active journal and research clubs. Completion of a scholarly project
during training is required. Major areas of research activity in the
department include pediatric and adult pain, airway management, obstetrics,
cardiovascular and ambulatory anesthesia.

  
  

**Academic Curriculum**

Residents are released from clinical duties on Wednesday afternoons to attend
the academic program. The academic curriculum is offered in parallel sessions,
and then all the residents come together for weekly resident led case based
discussions. The curriculum was reviewed in the fall of 2020 for content
updates and scheduling changes to accommodate the date change for the Royal
College examination period.

Junior residents participate in the Foundations Program which concentrates on
basic principles of anesthesia including preoperative assessment, pharmacology
and physiology, anesthesia equipment and anesthesia practice.  Teaching is
mostly case based, simulation, and small group learning.

Senior residents attend the Core Program which runs over 2 years and covers
all subspecialties. Again, teaching is mostly case based and simulation.   The
Transition to Practice year will concentrate on exam preparation and
independent practice.

Residents in 2nd year and above participate in biannual mock oral examinations
for practice and experience. There is a mid-training OSCE to monitor learning
in these academic programs. All residents complete the AKT examinations at the
specified intervals.

**Community**

Community rotation sites throughout the Maritimes are available for rotations,
and a minimum of 10% (approximately equal to 6 blocks) of the program will
take place in the community.

* * *

# Training Sites

\- QEII Health Science Center is the base hospital, Halifax, NS (encompassing
3 sites - Halifax Infirmary, Victoria General and Dartmouth General Hospital)

\- IWK Health Centre, Halifax, NS

\- Horizon Health New Brunswick - Moncton and Saint John, NB

\- Other sites throughout the Maritime Provinces (New Brunswick, Nova Scotia,
and Prince Edward Island) are available at the residents’ request.

* * *

# FAQ

Does everyone get an interview?

  * We have a Selection Committee made up of members of our Residency Program Committee, faculty, residents, and administration who review and score each application.  These reviews serve as the basis for candidates to be offered interviews. Only selected candidates will be offered interviews.  Applicants not interviewed will not be ranked.

How can I connect with current residents in the program or meet with the
Program Director?

  * There will be virtual meetings set up with both the Program Director and current residents in the program.  The dates and times of these meetings will be advertised through the CANPREPP calendar.

Can I submit additional info?

  * Required documentation is outlined under the section "Supporting Documentation". All info/documentation must be submitted prior to the CaRMS deadline. Any documentation submitted after this date will not be considered. Any additional documentation submitted will not be reviewed.



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27416?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27416