#  McMaster University - Emergency Medicine - Hamilton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 8

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Caillin Langmann  

Address Emergency Medicine  
McMaster Clinic, 2nd Floor  
237 Barton Street East  
Hamilton, Ontario, L8L 2X2  

(905) 521-2100 ext 76207

(905) 577-8457

Websites of Interest [ FRCPC McMaster Emergency Medicine
](https://medicine.healthsci.mcmaster.ca/divisions/emergency-
medicine/emergency-medicine-education/residency-program/)  
[ Division of Emergency Medicine
](https://medicine.healthsci.mcmaster.ca/divisions/emergency-medicine/)  
[ Tourism Hamilton ](http://tourismhamilton.com/)  
[ Hamilton YouTube Video ](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzOCGBcY0aY)  
[ Five Places to go in Hamilton, Ontario
](http://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/24/travel/five-places-to-go-in-hamilton-
ontario.html)  
[ Hamilton, Ontario Food Blog ](https://www.instagram.com/tastehamont/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Caillin Langmann

Title: Program Director

Email: caillin.langmann@medportal.ca

  

Name: Ms. Teresa Vallera

Title: Program Manager

Email: vallera@mcmaster.ca

Phone: 905-521-2100, x76207

  

Name: Mrs. Julia Smerilli

Title: Education Program Associate

Email: pgemerg@mcmaster.ca

Phone: 905-521-2100 ext. 76993

  

Name: Dr. Dean Vlahaki

Title: Assistant Program Director EM

Email: dean.vlahaki@medportal.ca

  

Name: Dr. Spencer Sample

Title: Assistant Program Director EM

Email: spencer.sample@medportal.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please refer to the CARMS website for provincial eligibility information -
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-criteria/>

It is important to review the requirements carefully.

You can also find information on the [McMaster Postgraduate
Website](https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/)

Our [McMaster FRCPC EM
Website](https://medicine.healthsci.mcmaster.ca/divisions/emergency-
medicine/emergency-medicine-education/residency-program/)

**Competency Based Medical Education:**

To contribute to the success of Canadian Physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called Competence by Design
(CBD), aims to enhance patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong
learning with evolving patient needs and empowering learners to more fully
engage in their education process.

CBD within our program uses both competencies as well as a global evaluation
strategies as a framework for the basis for progression. Duration of training
will not change for our program. The residency program is broken down into
stages, and each stage will have a series of milestones based on required
competencies. These milestones will create more targeted learning outcomes and
involve more frequent, formative assessments within the clinical workplace to
ensure residents are developing and receiving feedback on the skills they
need.

McMaster’s Emergency Medicine program (along with others across the country)
transitioned to Competence by Design (CBD) in July of 2018.

The Specialty Committee at the Royal College (including all of the program
directors) have developed:

  * [Entrustable Professional Activities](https://www.dropbox.com/s/srjbyya5ng5xsmr/EPA%20BY%20ROTATION.pdf?dl=0) (EPAs).  EPAs are cardinal tasks that are required to become a competent emergency physician.  EPAs along with global and end of block assessments, will form the basis of evaluation and promotion in the Competency Based Education Model.
  * Required Training Experiences which will help determine which rotations/experiences residents must undertake.

The new stages for residency programs under CBD are:

  * Transition to Discipline (~3 Months)
  * Foundations of Discipline (~9 Months)
  * Core of Discipline (~3 years)
  * Transition to Practice (~1 year) 

Transition between stages will take place once the requisite competencies in a
particular stage have been completed and global knowledge base and ED
functioning are appropriate for the next stage.

CBME has resulted in:

  * Fewer off service rotations
  * Modifications to off service rotations to maximize the relevancy to EM
  * A program that will be more tailored to individual residents

In the lead up to CBD we implemented a highly-rated, new academic half day
curriculum, simulation curriculum, bootcamp series, administration and CQI
curriculum. Our curriculum is under constant review and we have made numerous
modifications based on resident feedback.

The Exam will take place after the Core stage and time for training in an Area
of Focused Competence (subspecialty training) will take place in the
Transition to Practice Stage.

More information will be forthcoming at the CaRMS interviews and for
candidates who match to the program.

Further information regarding Competency Based Medical Education (CBME) can be
viewed at: <https://cbmepg.mcmaster.ca/>

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Thank you for your interest in the McMaster University Royal College Training
Program in Emergency Medicine.

The McMaster University Emergency Medicine Program offers a rich experience
for residency training. Our Hospitals provide care for a catchment area of
approximately 2 million people in the greater Hamilton area as well as being
the primary referral site for surrounding communities including Niagara and
Kitchener-Waterloo. We have over 80 faculty at multiple sites in and around
Hamilton involved in residency education in this high acuity, high volume
environment.

Our teaching sites include – The Hamilton General Hospital, St. Josephs
Healthcare Hamilton, The Juravinski Hospital and Cancer Center, McMaster
Children’s Hospital along with a number of community sites. Each of these
hospitals provide exposure to different aspects of Emergency Medicine to
ensure residents receive a broad exposure to Emergency Medicine.

We also have a number of opportunities for subspecialty training and research
both within the Division of Emergency Medicine as well as within the
University as a whole. Residents within the Program have an abundance of
opportunities to become involved in medical education, teaching and leadership
based on where their interests lie.

The McMaster University Emergency Medicine Program is accredited by the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Emergency Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Three Emergency Medicine structured reference letters are required and must be
written by attending physicians or faculty. Letters from Residents will not be
accepted.

At least 2 letters should be from clinical experiences. We will also consider
a letter from research and academic experiences.

Letters from Emergency Medicine Faculty are not required.



Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

A complete curriculum vitae including all education, employment, academic and
extracurricular activities.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

The personal letter is a key part of the application. Please answer the
following questions in your personal letter (Maximum 300 words per question).
The questions can be answered either as individual questions or as a
narrative.

  * **As you are likely aware, there are many pathways to practice Emergency Medicine in Canada. Tell us why you are interested in Emergency Medicine generally and why are you interested in becoming a specialist in Emergency Medicine?**
  * **What are some of the challenges facing Emergency Medicine in Canada?**
  * **Tell us what your career in Emergency Medicine looks like 5 years after you have completed residency. How can the McMaster Emergency Medicine program help you reach those goals?**
  * **What can you contribute to the McMaster Emergency Medicine program?**

Applications do not always identify barriers that applicants have faced in
their training. This may include, but are not limited to financial barriers,
life circumstances, systemic bias or other challenges. The McMaster FRCPC
Emergency Medicine program also recognizes the profound social biases and
systemic barriers which have contributed to the historic and current
underrepresentation of Indigenous and Black individuals within medicine.

To that end, if you feel that you either/both of the above statements apply to
you, you have the **option**  of answering the following question in 300
additional words:

  * **Describe your personal identity and how this will affect your future career goals**

We also strongly encourage candidates to complete the optional CaRMS Self
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ).

Candidates who identify as being from underrepresented or disadvantaged groups
as well as responses to the question above, will be reviewed along with the
rest of your application by the Program Directors, file reviewers and where
possible, faculty and residents with lived experience to positively augment
your application.





Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Photograph is used as memory aid only

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed.

Optional - will be reviewed

Self-identification questionnaire

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Given the large number of applicants expected, we will be unable to offer an
interview to all candidates. Personal interviews will be offered to a limited
number of applicants with the highest overall average scores who also do not
score below a minimum threshold in any one attribute.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 22, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interview date: Wednesday, January 22, 2025  
  
Interview dates are coordinated with all other Emergency Medicine programs in
the country.  There will be a virtual social event on Tuesday, January 21,
2025 in the evening for applicants invited to interview.  Current residents
and faculty will also be in attendance.  
  
Applicants will be notified in early January regarding interview decisions.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: In keeping with AFMC Decisions, all
interviews this cycle will be held virtually via Zoom.  
  
In addition to the social event on Tuesday evening, applicants will have the
opportunity to meet with our residents informally throughout the interview
day. Our Residents will also provide an orientation to the program and provide
candidates with information about the program, the city and our hospitals.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Final rank ordering of applicants will take into consideration BOTH the
strength of the application and interview performance.

## Program goals

  * To prepare our residents to become expert consultant-level clinicians and leaders in Emergency Medicine.
  * To provide support for the development of academic, research and professional competencies within the framework of the CanMEDS roles.
  * To encourage and support our residents as they develop subspecialty interests in Emergency Medicine and provide resources and guidance to develop these interests.
  * To use mentorship, along with our formal curriculum, to provide our residents with the tools to foster successful careers in Emergency Medicine.

Upon completion of the program, graduates should be competent and comfortable
to work in any pediatric, general or geriatric emergency department including
rural, community, urban and academic. It is also our expectation that
graduates should be able to function in the role of trauma team leader.

## Selection process goals

Through the CaRMS process our goal is recruit residents who meet the following
criteria:

  * Demonstrate interest and insight into Emergency Medicine
  * Demonstrate interest in Specialist/Academic Emergency Medicine. This could include, but not limited to, subspecialty training, interest in being an educator, administrator, leader, teacher, or researcher
  * Ability to work well with others and where necessary lead a team
  * Teaching and Problem-Solving Skills
  * Self-Assessment and Reflection Skills
  * Teachable with a growth mindset
  * Ability to cope with demands of a busy residency
  * Will integrate well with our current group of residents and faculty
  * Professional behavior

As much as possible we aim to provide a process that is fair and equitable and
will endeavor to level the playing field for candidates from non-traditional
or disadvantaged backgrounds.

## File review process

Review team composition : Review team composition: Each applicants Curriculum
Vitae, academic transcript, Medical Student Performance Record, reference
letters, and personal statement (as required in the “supporting documents”
section) will be reviewed and scored by a number of people within the Program
(both residents and faculty).

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Experience in Leadership, Research, Community Involvement, Employment and Education   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Interest and Insight into Specialist Emergency Medicine   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Experience in Leadership, Research, Community Involvement, Employment and Education   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  These skills/potential are assessed through extracurricular involvement, employment, CV and personal letters   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Clinical and Communication Skills, ability to function within a team environment   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest/Insight into Specialist EM, Leadership, Research, Community Involvement, Employment and Education   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Clinical and Communication Skills, ability to function within a team environment   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research Experience is a component of our assessment, we assess through the CV and personal letter   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Clinical and Communication Skills, ability to function within a team environment   
Other file component(s) |  Selection of candidates is based on a combination of personal attributes and skills compatible with a career in Emergency Medicine. The Selection Committee is interested in candidates with a strong academic background and who are motivated to assume academic or leadership positions in Emergency Medicine.   
  
Applicants must demonstrate interest and insight into Specialist Emergency
Medicine, excellent interpersonal and teamwork skills, good decision-making
ability, maturity, and willingness to positively contribute to the program.
Proximity to medical school graduation and relevant clinical contact are also
important selection criteria.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We encourage candidates who are interested in the program to attend a program
townhall, speak to [program leadership](mailto:pgemerg@mcmaster.ca)
([pgemerg@mcmaster.ca](mailto:pgemerg@mcmaster.ca)) or reach out to our [chief
residents](mailto:emchief@mcmaster.ca)
([emchief@mcmaster.ca](mailto:emchief@mcmaster.ca)) to learn more about the
program. We are also hosting a number of town halls for applicants to talk
about the program, application process etc. To register, please click
[here](https://forms.gle/tdeRnXw5kTwrKEBA6 "McMaster EM Program Town Halls").

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  We will contact all candidates to confirm if an interview will be
granted. Only applicants who are interviewed will be ranked.  
  
The interview will consist of five 10-minute interview stations. Four of the
stations will have a faculty member and a resident, and the fifth station will
be a resident station with two residents. In general, the interviewers will
not have reviewed your file.  
  
The Multiple Mini Interview (MMI) has been shown to be more reliable in terms
of giving the candidate more opportunities to interact with the interviewers.
Having multiple independent assessments has also been shown to increase the
reliability of interview assessments.  
  
Criteria for scoring include suitability for Specialist Emergency Medicine,
insight into specialty, decision-making ability, personal characteristics, and
suitability to the McMaster FRCP EM program.  
  
In keeping with AFMC Decisions, all interviews this cycle will be held
virtually via Zoom.  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work well with others – specifically other physicians, learners and allied health staff   
Collegiality |  Ability to work well with others – specifically other physicians, learners and allied health staff   
Communication skills |  Ability to communicate effectively with others in the clinical and non-clinical environment.   
Health advocacy |  Assess the candidate’s interest in health advocacy for individual patients along with on a system level   
Interest in the discipline |  Assess the candidate’s interest and insight into Specialist Emergency Medicine   
Interest in the program |  Assess the candidate’s interest in the McMaster University FRCPC EM Program   
Leadership skills |  Assess the candidate’s leadership skills and potential   
Professionalism |  Assess the candidate’s professionalism as well as how to manage unprofessional behaviour   
Scholarly activities |  Assess the candidate’s experience and interest in scholarship   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  Not a proper fit for program/discipline  
  
  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Ultrasound Course/Rotation** – All of our PGY 1 residents take part in a
hands-on Ultrasound Course to ensure that they have the skills needed for
their future rotations. This course includes scanning days, where residents
have the opportunity to conduct a number of scans on volunteer patients.
Finally, residents have a 2-4 week scanning block in PGY 2 where they can
practice their ultrasound skills in the ED while supervised by one of our
POCUS Fellows or Staff and can see and utilize the practical applications of
POCUS while in the ED.

**Simulation** – Residents are given the opportunity to participate in
simulation throughout residency training, with more intensive training in the
first two months of PGY 1 as well as throughout the year in PGY 2 and PGY 4/5.
Sessions take place weekly in the first two blocks of PGY1 in our transition
to residency boot camp. In PGY2, sessions occur once a month and are led by
faculty with simulation expertise and using high fidelity mannequins. The
Senior Simulation Curriculum runs across PGY4 and 5 to ensure that it does not
conflict with our PGY4 residents studying for their Royal College Exams.

**Critical Care Day** \- The program organizes a biennial critical care day to
review common and uncommon critical care procedures in the anatomy lab to
ensure that our residents are familiar with how to perform them.

**Disaster Day** \- The program organizes a biennial Disaster Day to give our
residents the opportunity to participate in a Mock Disaster. Our residents are
managing a busy Emergency Department, when disaster strikes! Over the course
of the morning they manage the organized chaos of simulated disaster. It has
received great reviews from our residents and has been a great learning
opportunity.

**Transition to Practice (TTP) Curriculum**  – McMaster has developed a multi-
part TTP curriculum for residents in PGY 5. Faculty from within the Program as
well as guest presenters hold sessions with the residents to discuss
transition to practice and administrative topics relevant to the practice of
Emergency Medicine. A number of our faculty have an interest in administration
and are involved in hospital/university administration. These faculty have
been mentors for residents with similar interests. The program is geared to
help develop leadership and administrative skills in Emergency Medicine.

**Retreat** – Once a year the program holds a resident retreat off-site. This
time is protected for residents to get together outside of the hospital and
discuss issues both within and outside of clinical emergency medicine. Topics
discussed during the retreat have included –End of Life Care, Career
Opportunities, Ethics, International Medicine etc.

**EMS Rotation** – Residents in PGY2 take part in a formal EMS Curriculum.
During this time residents have didactic sessions, attend EMS related
meetings, take part in ride outs with Paramedics in one of the local EMS
Services and may conduct an EMS related project.

**Practice Exams**  \- Residents have the opportunity to write practice
written examinations several times per year:

  * The Canadian In-Training Exam is written twice per year
  * Block exams approximately 3 times per year covering material reviewed in academic half days in the preceding months.

All of these exams are in a format similar to the written component of the
Royal College exam. All of these exams are excellent practice for the Royal
College Exams.

Residents also have the opportunity to participate in practice oral exams:

  * PGY 2-3 - Semi Annually
  * PGY 4 (year of exam) - Approximately Monthly

Research Curriculum and Support - Residents can participate in research to a
level commensurate with their career goals and objectives. At a minimum,
residents are responsible for completing:

  * At least one academic project suitable for submission to a peer-reviewed process over the course of their residency
  * Presenting a completed academic project at our Internal Research Day at least once

Residents are also encouraged to present at national and international
meetings.

Formal training in Critical Appraisal and Epidemiology is provided over a 2
month block for all residents during their PGY 1 year.

**Bootcamp Curriculum**  – the bootcamp curriculum is designed to help
Residents transition through the various stages of residency. There are
bootcamps at each stage of training tailored to help our residents develop new
skills they will need to be successful Emergency Medicine Residents and
Physicians.

**Wellness Curriculum** \- The resident run wellness committee has created a
curriculum to address the many aspects of collective wellness and challenges
that trainees face during residency. Mediums of wellness promotion include
workshops conducted during Academic Half Day on social aspects of medicine,
team building and social events throughout the year, and initiatives within
the emergency department to promote healthy work habits. This curriculum
includes resident-chosen speakers to address topics of their choice felt to be
important by the group; for example, mindfulness and stress reduction, and the
integration of theatre and play in medicine.

**  IDEA Curriculum** \- The Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Anti-Racism
Committee is a resident led committee with a dual focus on academic
programming and on increasing representation in emergency medicine. They have
worked with the program to expand our current curriculum to include more
content in these areas during Academic Half Day.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

This residency program is for 5 year(s)

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

[Clinical Curriculum](https://www.dropbox.com/s/rky8lyg7pofofus/Clinical-
Curriculum.pdf?dl=0)

**PGY 1 – Transition to Discipline & Foundations of Discipline:**

The PGY 1 year provides comprehensive basic clinical training in: Emergency
Medicine, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Internal Medicine, General Surgery,
Anesthesia, Pediatrics, and Obstetrics and Gynecology. Residents will rotate
through the Hamilton General Hospital, St. Josephs Healthcare Hamilton, The
Juravinski Hospital and the McMaster Children's Hospital. Residents in PGY 1
also participate in a 2-month research seminar series to prepare them for
developing their own research projects as well as an introductory ultrasound
course.

**PGY 2 – Core of Discipline:**

The PGY 2 year provides comprehensive training in Emergency Medicine.
Residents spend the entire year in the emergency department. In addition to
this, there is an EMS Curriculum as well as the POCUS Scanning Block. This
intensive exposure helps consolidate Emergency Medicine knowledge and prepares
residents for their off-service consultation year.

**PGY 3 – Core of Discipline:**

The PGY 3 year provides comprehensive training in subspecialties relevant to
the practice of Emergency Medicine. Rotations include: Community Emergency
Medicine, Critical Care (adult and pediatric), Cardiac Care, Trauma and 5
selective blocks which can include Plastic Surgery, Orthopedic Surgery,
Trauma, Research, Radiology, Neurosciences, Consult Medicine, Family Medicine,
OBGYN, Public Health, Community Anesthesia and Thoracic Surgery. These
selective blocks allow residents the opportunity to tailor their learning to
meet unmet needs in their training to date and/or explore areas of interest to
them that may become part of their subspecialty year.

**PGY 4 – Core of Discipline:**

The PGY-4 year provides comprehensive training in Emergency Medicine and
Pediatric Emergency Medicine. Over the course of PGY 4 residents must complete
a minimum of 10 Blocks of Emergency Medicine and 2 Blocks of Pediatric
Emergency Medicine. Within CBD Residents write their Royal College
Examinations at the End of Core, typically near the end of PGY4

**PGY 5  \- Transition to Practice and Area of Focused Competence**

The PGY 5 year encompasses both the Transition to Practice Stage as well as an
Area of Focused Competence:

 The Transition to Practice period includes EM Time as well as elective
experiences to prepare residents for independent practice.

This AFC period allows residents to design their own curriculum to formally
pursue subspecialty training or to develop expertise in an area relevant to
Emergency Medicine and the resident's career goals. The AFC may be done off-
site or in non-clinical areas with relevance to Emergency Medicine. Some
examples of previous AFCs include:

  * Masters Programs:
    * Master of Business Administration
    * Master of Medical Education
    * Master of Economics in Health Policy 
  * Trauma
  * Toxicology
  * Critical Care
  * Pediatric Emergency Medicine
  * Sports Medicine
  * Simulation
  * Point of Care Ultrasound (POCUS)
  * International Health
  * Pre-Hospital Care
  * Administration
  * Research
  * Disaster Medicine
  * Wilderness Medicine
  * Medical Education (Royal College Clinician Educator Program)
  * Tropical Medicine
  * Quality Improvement and Patient Safety
  * Hyperbaric Medicine
  * Geriatric Emergency Medicine

AFC proposals must be approved by the Residency Education Committee midway
through the PGY 4 year and are developed in conjunction with the Program
Director. Although formally listed as 6 months of Transition to Practice and 6
months of AFC, they can be done concurrently and he AFC period may be
stretched to a full year as long as Transition to Practice Goals are also
completed.

**Academic Curriculum**

[Formal Academic
Curriculum](https://www.dropbox.com/s/899548aahmgcnz4/Curriculum%20Map%202020.pdf?dl=0)

The McMaster Emergency Medicine Program has a robust academic curriculum. Our
residents have a minimum of a weekly protected academic half day. Depending on
the year there is frequently an academic full day or other academic sessions
throughout the week. The core curriculum covers all of the medical expert
topics one needs to become a consultant emergency physician. In parallel to
the medical expert curriculum there are sessions that cover the intrinsic
CanMEDS competencies. In addition to the core academic half day, most years
have specific academic programs tailored to meet their academic needs.

**PGY 1:**

Introduction to Residency - PGY 1 Residents have a number of sessions with the
Program Directors and senior Residents to prepare them for residency along
with an introduction to the city and the various hospitals that they will be
working at over the duration of the program.

Bootcamps - Over the first few months of residency PGY 1 Residents have a
Transition to Residency Bootcamp which covers Cardinal EM Presentations along
with simulation sessions that will prepare them for managing a variety of
emergency presentations they will experience both in the ED as well as their
off-service rotations. This is in addition to the core Academic Half Day.

Research Course - PGY 1s also participate in a research course that will
review critical appraisal and research methods to prepare them for completing
their research project later in training.

Introductory POCUS Course - Run annually for PGY1 - introduces residents to
Point of Care Ultrasound

**PGY 2:**  

Bootcamp – Early in PGY 2 bootcamp sessions focus on communication,
collaboration and documentation in the ED. Later in PGY 2, the focus is on the
management of critically-ill patients to prepare residents for their critical
care rotations.

Simulation - Junior Residents have monthly simulation rounds to review the
management of core ED presentations and to practice resuscitation skills as
well as team and resuscitation management

CQI Curriculum – PGY 2 residents participate in a multi-disciplinary CQI
curriculum to learn principles of CQI and are given the option to complete a
related scholarly project in this area of research.

EMS – Residents take part in Didactic Sessions, Ambulance Ride Outs, an EMS
Specific Project and Paramedic Education Sessions.

POCUS - Residents have a POCUS Block where they perform Point of Care
Ultrasound in the ED under the supervision of Faculty or POCUS Fellows to gain
further experience in using POCUS in the clinical setting.

**PGY 4:**

Bootcamp – Late PGY3/Early PGY4 – Transition to Senior Resident – includes
topics such as teaching in the ED, flow management and large and small group
teaching.

Senior Simulation Curriculum – PGY 4 Residents have monthly simulation
sessions to review the management of Advanced/Complex ED presentations and to
hone resuscitation skills as well as team and resuscitation management

Exam Review Sessions – As part of their studying, the PGY 4 Residents can
identify any areas that they feel they require a review session, which can be
set up with the program or with individual faculty members.

Practice Oral Exams - Practice Oral Exams are done semi-annually for Residents
in PGY 2-3, however in preparation for the Royal College Exam these sessions
are done monthly.

**PGY 5:**

Bootcamps:

  * Teaching & Flow Bootcamp – Early in PGY5 - Will focus on developing clinical teaching skills as well as learning practical/advanced aspects of ED management and flow.
  * Transitioning to Practice Bootcamp – Longitudinally in PGY5 - Includes topics such as administrative topics, Billing, Finances and Educational Promotion

**All**** **

Residents also participate in a number of longitudinal education sessions,
including Regional Rounds with invited local, national and international guest
speakers. In addition, we hold Morbidity and Mortality/Amazing and Awesome
rounds a few times a year. This gives residents an opportunity to discuss both
challenging cases as well as cases that highlight excellence in clinical care
in a safe environment. These rounds help inform the clinical services on how
we can make system level improvements.

**Journal Club**

The Program runs eight Journal Club sessions per year to assist in the
development of the residents’ critical appraisal skills and to keep abreast of
new and practice-changing research. Sessions focused on updates of current
literature take place in staff homes with a dinner served while other sessions
will take place in small group settings concurrent with half-day to
specifically focus on critical appraisal skills.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Patient Load**

Average patient load depends on the site and level of the resident. Junior
residents are closely supervised by either staff or senior residents. As
residents become more senior they are given more autonomy and supervisory
roles while still being supervised themselves. They also practice taking on
additional responsibilities such as teaching, managing patient volume/flow,
and how to approach concurrent administrative duties in the emergency
department. Our Emergency Departments are not dependent on trainees to
function.

**Training Sites:**

_Hamilton General Hospital_

The Hamilton General Hospital is the regional referral center for Trauma,
Cardiac, Stroke, Vascular and Neurosciences programs. It is a busy, high
acuity department in downtown Hamilton and caters to a large inner city
population. Rotations at the HGH exposes residents to issues of substance
abuse, blunt and penetrating trauma, infectious diseases and other health
problems that can affect marginalized populations.

_Juravinski Hospital_

The Juravinski Hospital is adjoining the regional cancer center. As such, many
of the patients who present to the ED have complex conditions requiring
significant work up and management at the ED level. This, coupled with a large
number of patients from the surrounding area, makes the Juravinski an
excellent teaching site with a wide breadth of patient types.

_McMaster Children's Hospital_

MCH is a tertiary care pediatric hospital. It is the regional pediatric
referral center for all of the EDs in the region and is also the regional
pediatric trauma center. The emergency department provides a unique
opportunity to see a great diversity of clinical conditions and disease states
in pediatric patients. It provides excellent exposure to almost all pediatric
subspecialties. MCH is a high-volume Pediatric Emergency Department staffed by
a mix of PEM trained as well as FRCPC EM trained physicians.

_St. Joseph’s Healthcare Hamilton_

St. Joseph’s Hospital in Hamilton is a very high-volume site also in the core
of the city. SJH houses the regional psychiatry, nephrology and thoracic
surgery programs. The emergency department manages a large number of patients
with a variety of toxicologic presentations as well as patients from the above
programs and the surrounding community. While rotating at SJH, residents also
work a few shifts at the SJH Urgent Care which is a high-volume site with lots
of procedural opportunities and a varied patient mix including pediatrics.

_Community Sites_

Our Community Sites are very busy community emergency departments. Our
Residents have the option to work at a number of community sites, both on
Emergency Medicine Electives as well as for other elective or selective
rotations. These include:

  * Brampton Civic Hospital
  * Trillium Health Partners
  * St. Catherine’s General Hospital
  * Grand River Hospital
  * St. Mary’s Hospital

These are a high volume, high acuity community EDs with a large number of
faculty who are committed to teaching EM Residents.

* * *

# Additional Information

_Emergency Medicine Residency Education Committee_

The REC is responsible for the overall operations of the Royal College
Training Program in Emergency Medicine. This includes ensuring that residents
in the program have the environment, mentorship and uniform experience to
successfully complete the program objectives. Members of the REC are also
responsible for assisting and contributing to the program functions for the
Emergency Medicine Residency Program at McMaster University, including the
following important domains:

  * Program Design
  * Training Program Academic Curriculum
  * Recruitment
  * Resident Evaluations
  * Appeals
  * Resident Well Being

Membership of the committee includes representation from departments
significantly involved in resident education, related program representation,
and resident representation. Resident representation includes the Chief
Residents and an elected Junior Resident and Senior Resident.

_Chief Residents_

The Chief Residents are appointed by the Program Directors following an
application process. All PGY 5 residents have the option to apply for the
position. The term of the chief residents runs from July to June. The Chief
Residents act as a liaison between the residents and the
faculty/administration and have very close communication with the Program
Directors._ _

_Elected Resident Representatives_

The residents elect a Junior and Senior Representative to the REC each year
for a term of 12 months. All Resident Representatives are voting members of
the REC and are responsible to their peers to bring forward concerns and share
information discussed at REC.

_Wellness Committee_

The resident run wellness committee has created a curriculum to address the
many aspects of collective wellness and challenges that trainees face during
residency. Mediums of wellness promotion include workshops conducted during
Academic Half Day on social aspects of medicine, team building and social
events throughout the year, and initiatives within the emergency department to
promote healthy work habits. This curriculum includes resident-chosen speakers
to address topics of their choice felt to be important by the group; for
example, mindfulness and stress reduction, and the integration of theatre and
play in medicine. Group activities also focus on fostering a welcoming
resident environment and making creative outlets for our learners through
painting classes, climbing courses and social activities all trainees can
participate in. First year residents also receive a peer-lead wellness
orientation in their first week to get acquainted with available mental-health
resources, and receive advise on common challenges such as studying, financial
wellness and the transition from medical school to residency.  The program
also holds Ice Cream Rounds; a safe forum where residents can discuss personal
and program related issues, and also celebrate their successes and ideas with
the rest of their colleagues to solicit advice and support. All these
initiatives are based off current evidence on strategies used to build
effective wellness curricula to combat resident burn out.

These sessions are in addition to the Resident Retreat, Fall Event, Holiday
Brunch as well as Night Rounds, informal social events for Residents and
Staff.  

_Equity, Diversity and Inclusion_

McMaster University is located on the traditional territories of the
Haudenosaunee and Mississauga Nations and, within the lands protected by the
“Dish with One Spoon” wampum agreement.

In keeping with its Statement on Building an Inclusive Community with a Shared
Purpose, McMaster University strives to embody the values of respect,
collaboration and diversity, and has a strong commitment to employment equity.
The diversity of our workforce is at the core of our innovation and creativity
and strengthens our research and teaching excellence. The University seeks
qualified candidates who share our commitment to equity, diversity and
inclusion. All qualified candidates are invited to apply and we particularly
welcome applications from women, persons with disabilities, First Nations,
Métis and Inuit peoples, members of visible minorities, and LGBTQ+ persons.

The McMaster FRCPC Emergency Medicine Program in particular aims to build a
community that is safe, inclusive, and respectful for all. We unequivocally
condemn racism in all forms, and recognize that Black, Indigenous, and people
of colour suffer disproportionate acts of hatred and discrimination. We stand
in solidarity with our patients and colleagues who experience injustice and
commit to creating a more tolerant reality.

As current and future Emergency Medicine practitioners we recognize the power
and privilege we hold when caring for patients, often at their most
vulnerable. We see the result of social inequality on a daily basis manifested
as poor health outcomes. Advocacy should be a foundational component of our
academic, research, and clinical work.

Our program pledges to embed this in the work that we do. We commit to
continually reflecting, listening, learning, and, where needed, changing our
systems. The Inclusion, Diversity, Equity, and Anti-racism (IDEA) committee is
a group of McMaster EM residents with a dual focus on academic programming and
on increasing representation in emergency medicine.



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27314?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27314