#  Dalhousie University - Urology - Halifax  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on August 27, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Andrea Lantz Powers  

Address Urology  
Queen Elizabeth II Health Sciences Centre  
Victoria General Site, Room 294, 5 Victoria  
1276 South Park Street, Halifax NS B3H 2Y9 , Nova Scotia, B3H 2Y9  

Work  (902) 473-5469

Fax  (902) 473-5850

Websites of Interest [ Department of Urology
](http://urology.medicine.dal.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Paula Snow

Title: Education Coordinator

Email: paula.snow@nshealth.ca

Phone: 902-473-5469

  

Name: Dr. Andrea Lantz Powers

Title: Program Director

Email: aglantz@dal.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

To obtain a postgraduate training license after the conclusion of the match,
Canadian Medical Graduates (CMG's) must have registered and challenged the
Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Exam Part 1 (MCCQE 1) by July 1, 2025.
Those unsuccessful in the exam are subject to the decision of the regulatory
authority regarding licensure.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

####  

You must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident _**at the time of
application**_.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

A maximum of three letters are required from faculty and/or practising
physicians or surgeons, at least two of which should be from urologists.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

A personal letter describing your background, career goals, reasons for choice
of urology, and extracurricular activities should be submitted.  Maximum word
count of 500.

You should include the answers to these questions in your letter:

  1. Why do you want to be a urologist?
  2. What experiences have you had that will allow you to thrive in a surgical residency?
  3. What are your strengths?
  4. Describe any unique qualities that would make you a superior candidate for our residency program.
  5. Why do you want to match to urology at Dalhousie?

Custom Résumé / CV

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

Copies of representative articles/abstracts which have been
published/presented by the applicant should be sent directly to the CaRMS
Office.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: Selected candidates will be interviewed
during the Urology Fair.  The date and format (in person or virtual) will be
finalized by the Royal College Specialty Committee in Urology in the near
future.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Each interview is 20 minutes in
length. Each candidate will be interviewed by 3-5 members of the Residency
Program Committee, including at least one resident member and the Program
Director. The candidate will be asked questions from a standard bank of
interview questions and will also be given time to ask the interviewers
questions about the program.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates must have an excellent academic record and an expressed and
demonstrated interest in urology. This should include electives in urology.
Expressed and fulfilled research interests will be beneficial, but do not
necessarily have to be in urology. References from urologists outlining
motivation, aptitude, maturity, inter-personal skills, ethical behaviour and
empathy will be regarded highly. Three letters of reference are required, at
least two of which should be from urologists.





## Program goals

The goal of the Dalhousie Urology Residency Program is to provide excellent
training from a clinical and academic perspective. Our residents are trained
to become competent specialists in the field of urology and to fulfill the
requirements of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada through
a competency-based curriculum design.  We strive to promote and participate in
continuing medical education activities and aim to lead the advancement and
dissemination of knowledge through research.  We place significant emphasis on
supportive interactions with a variety of other medical disciplines, nurses
and allied health professionals.

## Selection process goals

Applications will be assessed for academic achievements (grades, scholarships,
awards), previous employment, research endeavors, extracurricular activities
(community, committees, athletics, arts, unique qualities), personal letter
(specific for Dalhousie), reference letters and elective experience in urology
or urology-related specialties.  

Successful applicants will have an excellent academic record and have
demonstrated expressed interest in urology.  Applicants should possess
expressed and fulfilled research interests (not necessary to have been related
to urology). It is important to the applicant's success in our residency
program that they posess a high level of motivation, aptitude and maturity.
We will be looking to identify applicants with excellent inter-personal skills
and ethical behaviour.

Our program and university value the importance of equity, diversity and
inclusion (EDI) in residency education, and achieving a diverse and inclusive
group of residents is a goal in our selection process.

## File review process

Review team composition : The Residency Program Committee makes up the review
team. This includes: Program Director, Dept. Head, Victoria General site
coordinator, Halifax Infirmary site coordinator, IWK site coordinator, Chair
of Resident Research, Chair of Competence Committee, resident members (2) and
chief resident.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Previous education, work experience, volunteer experience, scholarships   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Urology, urology-related electives, location, supervisor, duration   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Variety, type, role of the applicant, well-roundedness   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Previous leadership experiences   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Overall medical student performance   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in urology, interest in Dalhousie Urology program   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Knowledge, skills, professionalism, maturity   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Quality of project, role of the applicant, authorship   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Transcript marks   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We recognize that students have a limited time to complete electives. It is
not mandatory for students to complete an elective at our centre to receive an
interview.  An onsite elective is encouraged so that applicants become
familiar with our training program, our faculty and residents, and the city of
Halifax.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work well in a team environment in a productive manner   
Collegiality |  Ability to function well with peers and colleagues   
Communication skills |  Clarity, listening, confidence, friendliness, open-mindedness, nonverbal communication   
Health advocacy |  Prior experience and/or interest in health advocacy   
Interest in the discipline |  Exposure to urology, understanding of urology residency and career, knowledge, research   
Interest in the program |  Knowledge of our program, experience at our centre   
Leadership skills |  Experience, ability to make decisions, ability to deal with difficult situations   
Professionalism |  Experience, ability to act in a professional manner, appropriate attire   
Scholarly activities |  Awards, scholarships, academic endeavours   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Department of Urology at Dalhousie University has a collaborative,
supportive, and cohesive team.  We pride ourselves on caring for our residents
and for each other.  We have a faulty-to-resident ratio that is usually close
to 1:1 which results in a close-knit and supportive group.  Our residents
typically socialize together and have a strong support system, even for those
who come to us from outside the Maritimes.  

Dalhousie Urology has sub-specialty trained faculty in every urologic sub-
specialty, which helps us to provide a robust and comprehensive training
program.  We collaborate closely with colleagues in other disciplines such as
uro-gynecology, interventional radiology, medical oncology, radiation
oncology, and surgical oncology.  

Our residents often present research at national and international meeting and
publish papers.  As a result, our residents often have very strong fellowship
applications. We also graduate competent surgeons with excellent surgical
exposure who are ready to start community practice if they choose not to
complete fellowship training.

Halifax is a vibrant city with many opportunities for social and recreational
activities.  Nova Scotia is a beautiful province with many hidden gems - sandy
beaches, hiking trails, world-class surfing, boating, fishing, wineries,
gardens, diverse communities, music, arts, and many other ways to maintain
physical health and mental wellness.



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Curriculum

The Urology Residency Program follows a Competency-Based Curriculum Design.
During the first 18-24 months, residents focus on completing rotations
tailored towards the Surgical Foundations CBD Curriculum in addition to
Urology CBD Curriculum. The last 36 months are devoted to completing the
remaining Urology CBD curriculum.

PGY-1

There is a six month exposure to urology in PGY-1, including ambulatory and
inpatient care. Other clinical experiences include general surgery, and
electives specialties such as in emergency medicine, anesthesia, medical
rotations (eg: nephrology, infectious diseases), and other surgical
selectives. During PGY-1 residents complete the Transition to Discipline stage
of both Surgical Foundations and Urology. Residents will transition into the
Foundations stage of CBD curriculum for both Surgical Foundations and Urology
during PGY-1.

  
  

PGY-2

During PGY-2 there is a six month exposure to inpatient and ambulatory
urology, three months general surgery, two months surgical intensive care
unit, one month research. The PGY-1 and PGY-2 years are designed to help
prepare residents for the Surgical Foundations examination, provide learning
opportunities in other specialties and maintain contact with their home
program.

During the PGY-2 year, the resident will complete the Foundations stage of the
Surgical Foundations CBD curriculum. The resident will continue to work on the
Foundations stage of the Urology CBD curriculum.  
  

PGY-3

This year is dedicated to introducing residents to urology in greater depth
and to allowing them to further develop clinical judgement and endoscopic
skills. A major emphasis is placed on ambulatory care and outpatient
procedures. Trainees perform minor urological procedures under supervision of
both senior resident staff and attending staff and assist at major surgical
cases. They are expected to demonstrate the competent early management of
urological emergencies and uncomplicated pre- and post-operative care.
Rotations are usually three months in length and permit exposure to different
hospitals, services and academic staff. A rotation in pediatric Urology often
occurs during this year and residents will typically complete a 3-month
community urology rotation in PGY-3.

During PGY-3, the resident will progress from the Foundations stage of the
Urology CBD curriculum to the Core stage.  
  

PGY-4

This intermediate year allows extension of and further refinement of
urological surgical skills. The resident is expected to develop and
demonstrate sound clinical judgement with the efficient initiation and
organization of appropriate investigations and management of more complex
urological problems. Residents are often in charge of a clinical service and
are responsible for consultations off-service. Responsibility in the operating
room will increase and teaching and supervision of junior house staff is
required. Opportunities to pursue subspecialty interests through elective
experience are often available.  A two or three month elective in Urology
often occurs during this year.  During the PGY-4 year, residents complete a
one month urologic oncology rotation with clinics in medical and radiation
oncology.

During PGY-4, the resident will continue in the Core stage of the Urology CBD
curriculum.

  
  

PGY-5

This is the chief resident year involving significant clinical, administrative
and academic responsibilities. The Chief Resident is expected to efficiently
run the inpatient clinical unit and perform major surgical procedures in their
entirety. PGY-5 residents will also gain further experience in pediatric
urology, as well as transplantation. They will organize and coordinate rounds,
seminars, vacation schedules, and attendance at meetings. At the end of this
year, the individual is expected to be able to function independently,
efficiently, and safely as a fully trained urologist.

During the PGY-5 year, the resident will complete their Royal College
Examination. In addition, they will progress from the Core stage of Urology
CBD curriculum to the final stage, Transition to Discipline.  
  

Research

Residents are required, early in their academic training, to select areas of
clinical research which can be carried on throughout their residency training.
Residents have a one month block in their PGY-2 year dedicated to research.
There is a firm commitment by faculty to assist and supervise these projects
and regular departmental and university resident research days are held.
Residents are encouraged to submit abstracts to appropriate national and
international meetings; travel/registration for such meetings is subsidized by
the Department.

  
  

Quality Improvement

The Department of Urology has a strong focus on Quality Improvement and
Patient Safety (QuIPS) with the goal of improving patient care and outcomes.

The Department has a faculty Quality Improvement and Clinical Care lead who is
active on Nova Scotia Health committees.  There is a robust Departmental
Quality Improvement committee that includes resident members.  Quarterly QuIPS
rounds are held where the Chief Resident reviews "morbidity and mortality"
events and presents a short QuIPS topic review that is relevant to one or more
cases that arose in the prior quarter.

There is an opportunity for QuIPS projects and research with faculty
mentorship.  Collaboration with other specialties (ie: general surgery,
diagnostic imaging) is promoted.  Faculty expertise in QuIPS exists within the
Department and formal QuIPS teaching is incorporated into the residency
training program.  

Seminars

There is a very strong scientific and academic program with numerous seminars
by and for residents. An academic half-day is held each Wednesday afternoon at
which time all residents are relieved of all clinical duties. For PGY1 and
2's, a Surgical Foundations lecture series takes place weekly in preparation
for the Royal College Surgical Foundations examination and is coordinated by
the general surgery department. For all PGY2-5 residents, attendance to
academic half-day is mandatory. These consist of Urology School which are
coordinated by faculty members, each addressing a different urologic topic.
There is also protected time for independent study or research. Weekly inter-
hospital grand rounds and monthly journal clubs are held. There are regularly
scheduled short answer and OSCE examinations. There is an ongoing schedule of
visiting professors and the residents have input into their selection.

  
  

Surgical Simulation and Skills Training

The Department of Urology has co-leads for the Surgical Simulation and Skills
Training.  There is an on-site skills lab with surgical simulators, dry lab
equipment, and cadaver labs.  Dalhousie University has a unique cadaver lab
program, which the Department of Urology participates in.  This allows our
program to offer open and laparoscopic surgical skills training by faculty in
the lab.

There are approximately 8 skills labs per year ranging from basic laparoscopy
skills training to open surgery on cadavers.  Sessions often include didactic
teaching and hands on experience with instruction by 1-2 faculty members with
labs mapped to various CBD EPAs.  Resident feedback and assessment of the labs
are valued and are used for continuous quality improvement of the skills lab
training program.

Collective Agreement

Residents are members of Maritime Resident Doctors (MarDOCS), which negotiates
a collective agreement with the government of Nova Scotia and Nova Scotia
Health.  The collective agreement outlines vacation time, leave, benefits, and
other supports for residents.

Residents are encouraged to familiarize themselves with the details of the
collective agreement.  Departmental policies are developed in line with the
collective agreement.

https://www.maritimeresidentdoctors.ca/

* * *

# Training Sites

Nova Scotia Health Central Zone

QEII Health Sciences Centre

  * Victoria General Hospital - surgical and inpatient urology service
  * Halifax Infirmary - ambulatory care and Emergency Department consult service



IWK Health Centre

  * Pediatric general surgery
  * Pediatric Urology

Other CZ sites may include: Cobequid Community Health Centre, Dartmouth
General Hospital, Hants Community Hospital, and the Bayers Lake Outpatient
Care Centre



New Brunswick

  * Saint John Regional Hospital - community urology and general surgery
  * Fredericton Hospital - community urology and general surgery
  * Moncton Hospital - general surgery





\- There is an opportunity for electives while training.

\- Ratio of residents to faculty is approximately 1:1

\- Ambulatory experience is provided as a defined rotation.

All Dalhousie University residency programs are required to have 10% of their
residency training outside of Halifax Regional Municipality as stipulated by
the Nova Scotia Government's Department of Health and Wellness.  Please be
aware that if matched to Halifax, as part of your training you may be expected
to complete rotations outside of Central Zone but within the Maritime
Provinces.  Housing is provided and arranged for residents by the PGME office.
These community rotations provide excellent training and typically have
excellent reviews from residents.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27130?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27130