#  University of British Columbia - Pediatrics - Fraser

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on October 09, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Melissa Chan  
Dr. Michaela Remington  

Address Department of Pediatrics  
Room 2D19 - 4480 Oak Street  
Vancouver, British Columbia, V6H 3V4  

Websites of Interest [ UBC Department of Pediatrics - Postgraduate Residency
Program ](http://pediatrics.med.ubc.ca/education/residency-program/)  
[ CANPREPP ](https://canprepp.ca/programs/university-of-british-columbia-
pediatrics-vancouver/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Hemendra Ramdhani

Title: Site Director, Fraser Program

  

Name: Dr. Mia Remington

Title: Program Director, Vancouver

  

General Information: For questions not covered on CaRMS site please contact:

Name: Charlie Sushams

Title: Senior Program Assistant

Email: pediatrics.fraser@ubc.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Thank you for your interest in our program.  We invite you to join us to learn
more about our UBC Residency Program during our virtual information session.

The first half of the session will cover general topics around the Program,
including all our sites - Vancouver, Fraser and Victoria - and our Community
Impact (CI) stream and Research track. There will be breakout rooms with
smaller group discussions with some of our residents and Q+A in the later half
of the session.

October 15, 2024 from 17:00 – 18:30 (PST)







**Zoom Meeting Connection  Information:**



**Meeting ID** : 92014 221648; **Passcode** : 221648

<https://ubc.zoom.us/>

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

A maximum of three references from supervisors who know you well and can speak
to your strengths, character and motivation for pediatrics.

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  600

  

Our program values the personal letter as an opportunity to get to know you
and learn more about your journey to pediatrics. We value authenticity,
honesty, and a wide range of life experiences.

This a chance to highlight things about yourself that may not come up in other
parts of your application or to provide context to anything in your
application that you think might not be clear to the selection committee (ex.
gaps in training).

With this in mind; please address the following in your personal letter:

  * What has influenced your decision to pursue pediatrics? 
  * How will our program and this specific stream help you achieve your career goals?

Please note: If you are have also applied to our general Vancouver CMG stream,
reviewers will have read your personal letter.  In this case, please limit
this letter to a maximum of 250 words, focusing only on the following:

  * Why are you particularly interested in and well suited to the Fraser site of this program?

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

_All applicant files submitted before the deadline will be reviewed by the
selection committee. Each file is evaluated for characteristics likely to
contribute to success as a pediatric resident in our program and eventually as
a pediatrician, and for potential to meet the needs of the diverse pediatric
population of BC.   _

_After file review, selected applicants will be offered a virtual interview.
Due to the large number of applications received, not all those_ _  meeting
minimal requirements will be offered an interview. _

_The final ranking process is determined by a combination of file review and
interview scores._

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 5, 2025
  * February 6, 2025

Details regarding interview dates:

  * Interviews will be held virtually.

  * All applicants applying to the Fraser Site will participate in the Vancouver program MMI. 
    * Main Vancouver site interviews will be held on January 23, 24, 27, 28 and 30.
  * Applicants also applying to the Fraser Site will also be scheduled for an additional site specific interview on either February 5 or 6.

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will be offered to those
applicants considered most suitable for the residency program and a career in
pediatrics based on the submitted package.  Program will notify all applicants
of their status as: selected to interview, on waitlist for an interview, not
selected for an interview. Applicants on the waitlist will be notified if and
when interview spaces become available  
  
An email notification will be sent on January 5, 2024 and, if applicable, will
include instructions on accessing an online self-scheduling tool used by all
programs participating in the 2024 General Pediatrics CaRMS R-1 match.  
  
Potential candidates will be invited to participate in an MMI style interview
with participation from  program directors,  faculty, and residents.  An
additional traditional style interview specific to the Fraser Site will be
scheduled as above.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

As a new, community based site of the UBC pediatric residency program launched
in July 2023, the Fraser site provides residents with significant
opportunities for independence. Trainees who are motivated, independent, and
mature in their learning style, and who are enthusiastic about helping to
develop a new educational initiative are expected to thrive here.  The nature
of the program will require residents to be flexible in having the majority of
their rotations in the Fraser region, but with several rotations each year
taking place in Vancouver or other UBC sites.

Applications should demonstate evidence of:

  * An interest in pediatrics and understanding of the field (this may include elective experience, research or work experience involving children and youth)

  * Excellent communication and collaboration skills.
  * Compassion, strong work ethic and professionalism.

  * An inquisitive mind (ability to reason, critical thinking skills, curiosity).

  * Strong clinical skills and reasoning 

  * A willingness to accept feedback and commitment to self-improvement.



We value and celebrate diversity in our residents, program and community.

## Program goals

The mission of the UBC pediatric residency training program is to provide
quality postgraduate training experiences to prepare doctors to be highly
competent pediatric specialists and sub-specialists, in order  to meet the
diverse needs of patients and communities in British Columbia.  

Our goal is to equip residents to be ready for independent practice, capable
of assuming a consultant's role, in pediatric careers that include excellence
in clinical care, medical education, clinical research, and child health
advocacy, fulfilling all the objectives of specialty training in pediatrics of
the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

At UBC, we are committed to training physicians who will ultimately be serving
our population.

Residents in our program are expected to demonstrate clinical and academic
excellence, exceptional interpersonal and teamwork skills, collegiality with
peers, scholarly perspective, and a sense of responsibility and dedication to
the profession.

At UBC, we rely on the entire province for training.We celebrate the learning
opportunities available to learners through our distributed partnerships.
Therefore, the ability to complete rotations 'away' from your home base is
expected.

## Selection process goals

Identify applicants strongly interested in Pediatrics, and those who will
develop into exceptional pediatricians

Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability to collaborate with
patients, colleagues, and healthcare team members alike

Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability and enthusiasm to learn and
are able to adapt to the various demands of residency training.

Identify applicants who are independent, flexible and mature learners who are
excited to contribute to the ongoing development of a new community-based
training site.

Identify applicants who have a sincere interest to serve the communities of
BC, with particular note of those interested in practicing in underserved
communities.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team is composed of the program
directors, and 20 - 25 other faculty (including faculty at distributed sites)
. Additionally, applications will be reviewed for specific suitability for the
Fraser site.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
The fraser site launched in 2023, this will be our third cohort of residents.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Evidence of engagement in research, medical education, leadership and/or extracurricular activities (including work experience)   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Electives in community-based settings are recognized, but not required   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  CaSPER   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Work and life experience   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidenced by commitment to self improvement, professionalism, and growth mindset   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstrated interpersonal skills; clinical competence   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in and suitability for a career in pediatrics and this specific program site; desire to serve the needs of British Columbians   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interaction with colleagues and patients; interest in and aptitude for pediatrics; capacity for growth   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Demonstration of academic curiosity and an inquisitive mind.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Absence of professionalism concerns   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high-quality patient care through working in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Behaviours, attitudes, and abilities required to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Clear and concise communication throughout interview   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrated understanding of social justice and impact of inequities on the health of children and families   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated interest and aptitude for pediatrics; realistic understanding of pediatrics as a career   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest in our program, setting, and serving British Columbians   
Leadership skills |  Self-awareness, recognition of strengths and weaknesses; ability to cope with adversity and difficult situations   
Professionalism |  Resilience and emotional intelligence; demonstrated optimism and growth mindset (willingness to learn from challenges); recognition of boundaries and limitations   
Scholarly activities |  Critical thinking and analysis skills   
Other interview component(s) |  Evidence of self-directed learning and initiative.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

### **Fraser Site of the  UBC Pediatric Residency Program **

A unique aspect of the UBC Pediatrics Residency Program is that it has three
base sites - Vancouver, and Victoria on Vancouver Island, and this Fraser
site, launched in July 2023.    Entering its third year, the Fraser site of
the program is based in Surrey, the second largest city in the Metro Vancouver
area, with training experiences in several other hospitals and practices in
the Fraser region.  Each site has their own CaRMS PGY-1 matched spots.

Fraser Health is the second largest health authority in Canada and home to
over 40% of British Columbia’s children. The region’s boundaries extend from
the seaside communities of Tsawwassen and White Rock south of the Fraser
River, the city of Burnaby north of the Fraser River, and up the green fields
of the Fraser Valley east to the municipality of Hope at the southern end of
the Fraser Canyon. The United States border runs the length of the FHA region
to the south. There are three regional pediatric units and five community
hospitals with pediatric care.  With the high volume of pediatric and neonatal
activity, there will be ample opportunities for personal and hands-on clinical
experience, supported by close, supportive teaching from dedicated faculty.

The Fraser and Vancouver island sites of the UBC Pediatrics Residency Program
are fully integrated with the  the Vancouver site of the program. Residents
from both of these sites will spend 6-16 weeks per year at BC Children’s
Hospital in Vancouver doing rotations that are by necessity in a children’s
hospital. They join the BCCH based residents in person several times a year
for educational events, including orientation and boot camp, fall retreat (at
Whistler), Celebrate Research Day (April), a spring retreat, careers evening
and an awards banquet in Vancouver. Residents will also attend OSCE
examinations in Vancouver (1 in the PGY1 \- 3 years, 2-3 in the PGY 4 year. )
Mandated events include supported travel and accommodation.  Weekly academic
half-days and Grand Rounds are video-conferenced to our distributed sites
throughout the province.  

The Fraser site will provide candidates with significant opportunities for
independence. The nature of the program will require residents to be flexible.
Trainees who are motivated, independent, and mature in their learning style
and who are enthusiastic about helping to continue to develop this new
educational initiative are expected to thrive here.

Launched in 2023, we currently have 4 residents at the Fraser Site.

At present we are unable to accept IMG applications for the Fraser Site.





### UBC Pediatric Residency Program

The UBC general pediatric residency training program strives to provide a
broad inpatient, ambulatory and community educational base to equip general
pediatricians with the skills necessary for independent practice and/or to
successfully transition to subspecialty training. Training within the tertiary
care setting helps graduates develop the confidence and skills necessary to
treat children with medical and psychosocial complexity and provide exposure
to all pediatric subspecialties. This is complemented by mandatory time spent
each year in community practices and hospitals around the province.  Our
pediatric residency training program is committed to providing an excellent
educational experience within the guidelines of the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

Residents attend mandated academic activities, including academic half-days
and Grand Rounds on a weekly basis. These are video-conferenced to our
distributed sites throughout the province. There are two mandatory resident
retreats and a Careers Night annually, attended by residents from both sites.

Residents also practice resuscitation scenarios in the high-fidelity simulator
program, both on acute care rotations (PICU and emergency medicine) and in
their longitudinal simulation curriculum in the academic half-day. Regular
mock codes take place for residents on the clinical teaching unit (CTU).

All residents are expected to work on clinical, basic science, quality
improvement or medical education research and to present their work at least
once, either at the annual research day or at a conference. First year
residents take part in a 24-hour research curriculum during the academic half-
day. The resident Journal Club is scheduled bimonthly and introduces residents
to key clinical research methodologies and critical appraisal of the
literature.

The UBC Department of Pediatrics and the pediatrics residency program have a
commitment to social justice as a lens for all pediatric care, and to
addressing health inequities affecting children and youth. In addition to a
mandatory social pediatrics rotation, residents have opportunities to engage
in resident-driven local health advocacy projects, outreach programs in BC, as
well as global child health initiatives, including local social pediatrics
electives and electives overseas.

Residents can participate in the outreach visits to Haida Gwaii and
Smithers/Hazelton, as well as the Brighter Smiles program that serves several
First Nations communities. Presently, partnerships exist with hospitals in
South Africa and Australia allowing senior residents the opportunity to
participate in ethical extended (three month) global health electives.

For more information on our general program, please see **UBC - Vancouver CMG
program description.**



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The curriculum has been revised in accordance with the Royal College's
_Competence By Design_  required and recommended training experiences, and
standards for accreditation for pediatrics as of July 2021.  The 4 stages of
CBD are mapped over 4 years, after which residents can choose to apply to a
subspecialty. The first three stages provide exposure to acute care and
ambulatory pediatrics as well as the subspecialties, with a graded
responsibility from junior to senior residency.  Residents participate in the
resident continuity clinic during Core and Transition to Practice stages.

Unique to the Fraser and Victoria sites is the longitudinal exposure to
subspecialty and general pediatrics outpatient clinic opportunities.  These
mixed blocks are scheduled throughout the four years of training and allow
trainees to revisit outpatient learning opportunities over time.  For example,
instead of completing a single four week rotation in cardiology, Fraser site
trainees will complete multiple individual days of cardiology over the course
of their training, scheduled during their longitudinal blocks.  The majority
of subspecialty exposure will be achieved through outpatient or community
experiences in the Fraser Health Region.

**Curriculum  Fraser Site**

**Transition to Discipline:**

  * Orientation block (at BC Children’s Hospital)
  * Community Pediatrics Fraser region
  * ER/Newborn (at Surrey Memorial Hospital)

**Foundations  (junior resident):**

  * CTU (SMH and BCCH), night float, community pediatrics
  * Anaesthesia, emergency medicine SMH
  * Level II and community level III NICU (RCH and SMH)
  * Subspecialties (combination of longitudinal clinic exposure in Fraser or blocks at BCCH)

#### **Core:**

#### **   Core 1 (transition towards senior resident):**

  * CTU Jr , Jr consults SMH, community pediatrics
  * Subspecialties (combination of longitudinal clinic exposure in Fraser or blocks at BCCH)
  * Level III NICU SMH
  * Pediatric intensive care BCCH
  * social pediatrics
  * Elective
  * research 2 weeks

  



**   Core 2 (senior resident):**

  * CTU Sr, night float, Sr consults SMH
  * Complex care
  * Subspecialties: dermatology, adolescent medicine, neurology, psychiatry, surgery
  * Developmental pediatrics
  * Level III-IV NICU BCWH
  * Emergency medicine BCCH
  * PICU Sr BCCH​
  * Selective; Elective x 3

#### Transition to Practice:

  * Junior consultant at hospital in Fraser region
  * CTU Sr (Surrey Memorial Hospital)
  * Emergency medicine (Surrey Memorial Hospital or BCCH)
  * community ambulatory pediatrics
  * Community level III NICU (RCH or SMH)
  * Elective x 3**** ****

Details regarding housing and accommodation for mandated  rural rotations are
outlined in the PGME guidelines.  
  

### **_  
Formal Academic Teaching_**

Residents participate in mandated academic activities, including the
following:

  * Academic Half Day: 3 1/2 hours per week _(12:30­-4:00 pm Tuesdays)_.  This is protected academic time.
  * Simulation Program:  eight 3-hour sessions during academic half days throughout the year.  This is protected academic time.
  * Grand Rounds: 1 hour per week _(1200 - 1300 Fridays)_
  * Rotation specific rounds and seminars: (_1­-5  hours per week)_
  * Journal Club: bi-monthly meetings, 2 hours per meeting, usually off campus
  * Twice yearly resident retreats



### **_Mandatory Courses_**

The Program schedules NRP, PALS and Peds BASIC courses in the first and second
years of resident training. Residents are also required to complete ACLS,
Residents as Teachers, and online courses including the Indigenous Cultural
Competency course and Immunization Pearls.****   ****

###  

* * *

# Training Sites

**Training sites will include:**

Surrey Memorial Hospital

Royal Columbian Hospital

Langley Memorial Hospital

Abbotsford Regional Hospital

Chilliwack General Hospital

BC Children’s Hospital, Vancouver

BC Women’s Hospital, Vancouver

Sunny Hill Health Centre for Children, Vancouver

Distributed community pediatrics sites

Community pediatric ambulatory practices

  

## _The Hospitals_

 **Surrey Memorial Hospital** is the largest of three regional hospitals in
Fraser Health’s integrated network of care, providing a range of services,
including 24/7 emergency services. It is the designated Regional Pediatric
Centre in the Fraser Health region. Surrey Memorial Hospital is the second
largest hospital in the province with the province's busiest Emergency
Department. The Emergency Department also includes a separate pediatric
emergency department for children, one of only two in B.C. The Children’s
Health Centre at Surrey Memorial Hospital is the busiest facility of its kind
for children in the entire Fraser Health region.  A range of subspecialty
services provide clinics including cardiology, asthma, nephrology, and
diabetes. Every year the hospital treats more than 50,000 children for
everything from wounds to cancer. The Neonatal Intensive care unit (NICU) has
a 32-bed capacity, caring for the most fragile of newborns in this maternity
centre of 4500 deliveries per year.  



**The Royal Columbia Hospital** (RCH) is the oldest hospital in BC and is
located in New Westminster.  It provides specialized pediatric care in a
secure unit of 12 inpatient rooms for infants, children, and youth up to the
age of 17 years. Additionally, there is an ambulatory, rapid-access pediatric
service, and several subspecialty clinics. There is on-site physician coverage
24 hours a day.  The RCH is also the regional trauma, neurosurgery, and
cardiac center and thus cares for high-risk maternity patients as well.  The
NICU has 24 beds for the sickest of newborns in this center of 3000 deliveries
a year.  In 2025, the new Acute Care tower will expand the emergency
(including a separate pediatric area), pediatric unit, and NICU footprint to
provide the highest level of care to babies, children, and youth.  



**British Columbia Children's Hospital (BCCH)** is the only tertiary care
pediatric hospital in BC. The hospital also provides primary and secondary
pediatric care to the pediatric population in and around Vancouver.  Virtually
all medical and surgical sub-specialties are represented at this centre. There
is a total of 154 pediatric beds with approximately 7100 admissions per year.
The 18 bed Pediatric ICU has approximately 800 admissions per year. We have an
active pediatric cardio-thoracic surgery service. British Columbia Children's
Hospital has a Pediatric Emergency Department with approximately 50,000 visits
per year. The Ambulatory Care Building hosts over 40 clinics,  seeing over
160,000 visits per year. There are active medical, surgical and psychiatric
daycare programs.  http://www.bcchildrens.ca/

 **British Columbia Women's Hospital** offers level 2 and 3 neonatal
experience with 60 neonatal beds and over 1100 admission to NICU each year,
and the **Sunny Hill Health Centre for Children** provides child development
and rehabilitation services, with 12 inpatient beds, and 12,000 ambulatory
visits annually.



## _The University_  

 The Department of Pediatrics, part of the **University of British Columbia**
's Faculty of Medicine, has played a vital role in developing undergraduate
and postgraduate clinical training programs since 1952. The strength of the
Department lies in three areas: teaching, research, and exemplary patient
care. We are fully accredited by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons
of Canada. In addition, most subspecialties offer Royal College accredited
training programs for pediatric graduates, with approximately 80 subspecialty
residents and fellows per year.  https://pediatrics.med.ubc.ca/

 The **UBC Fraser Medical Program** is a new distributed training site of the
UBC Faculty of Medicine. Medical students will complete most of their clinical
experiences of the four-year training program in the Fraser region.  

* * *

# Additional Information

The UBC Pediatric residency program provides each resident with an education
stipend to attend and/or present at conferences, purchase textbooks and offset
other educational expenses during their training.  
  
Two resident retreats are conducted each year.  
  
Both individual and group mentorship programs exist. The resident group
provides peer mentorship for incoming R1s, assisting them to “learn the ropes”
and support the transition into a new and challenging residency program.  
  
In the summer, we welcome our new trainees with a Garden Party. Our Annual
Awards Banquet in June is a time to honour and celebrate the accomplishments
of our residents, fellows and faculty members.



### **A little bit about the Fraser region...**

Within Metro Vancouver, Surrey is the largest city in land area, and second
most populous city, and lies between the Fraser River and the U.S. border. The
City of Surrey resides on the traditional territories of the Semiahmoo,
Katzie, Kwikwetlem, Kwantlen, Qayqayt and Tsawwassen First Nations. Surrey is
one of the fastest growing, culturally diverse cities in Canada.  43% of the
province’s children live in the Fraser health authority, and one in 3
residents of Surrey is under 19.  Metro Vancouver's metropolitan rail system,
SkyTrain, provides Surrey with an Expo Line service to Downtown Vancouver.
https://www.surrey.ca/about-surrey

The Fraser Health region’s boundaries extend from the seaside communities of
Tsawwassen and White Rock south of the Fraser River, the city of Burnaby north
of the Fraser River, and up the green fields of the Fraser Valley east to the
municipality of Hope at the southern end of the Fraser Canyon. The United
States border runs the length of the FHA region to the south.

### A little bit about Vancouver ...

The City of Vancouver acknowledges is situated on the unceded traditional
territories of the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh (Squamish), and
səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh) Nations. Vancouver is one of North America's most
beautiful cities, hosting a natural harbor, mountains, forests, and beaches.
The city has a mild maritime climate, yet it is in close proximity to snow-
capped mountains and outdoor winter activities while the Pacific Ocean is most
suited for sailing, sea- kayaking, swimming, diving and windsurfing.
Vancouverites enjoy a vibrant, multicultural city with a plethora of
international restaurants.

Public transit is available throughout the lower mainland by bus, sea bus, and
sky train. The Canada Line connects Richmond to downtown Vancouver and runs
along the Cambie Street Corridor.  From the stop at Cambie Street and 25th
Avenue (King Edward) it is a 10 minute walk to BC Children's Hospital.
Travelers can take bikes on public transit.

Bicycling is a key year-round form of transport, with over 1,400 km of bike
routes (400 km on shared roadways with cars) throughout the Vancouver area.
The Central Valley Greenway, a 24 km pathway for cycling, jogging, walking,
skateboarding, blading and for those with wheelchairs, is a major
transportation and recreation route that links to multiple destinations across
the city.

* * *











* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26360?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26360