#  University of Saskatchewan - Ophthalmology - Saskatoon  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Todd Buglass  

Address Ophthalmology  
Saskatoon City Hospital  
701 Queen Street  
Saskatoon SK , Saskatchewan, S7K 0M7  

Work  306-922-7400

Fax

Websites of Interest [ University of Saskatchewan ](http://www.usask.ca/)  
[ Department of Ophthalmology ](http://www.medicine.usask.ca/ophthalmology)  
[ Learn more about the U of S Ophthalmology program
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=asaXraWSoi8)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Lorrisa Budz

Title: Program Administrator

Email: lorrisa.budz@usask.ca

  

Name: Dr. Paul Murphy

Title: Head, Ophthalmology

  

* * *

# Important Information

Applicants are responsible for reviewing the [University of Saskatchewan
Policies for the R-1 Match](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/saskatchewan/) to determine if they meet all
requirements and eligibility criteria. Failure to meet or provide proof of any
of the stated requirements or documents may result in an applicant’s file not
being reviewed or ranked.

**Casper Test**  
All applicants must complete the Casper test. Please refer to the Examinations
section for more information.

**Licensing  
** Matched applicants must be eligible for an educational register license
with the [College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Registration___Licensure/web/Applicants/Licensure/Registration_and_Licensure_Landing.aspx?hkey=75b022f8-df64-4f34-8e2a-a09bea881787)
(CPSS) for a July 1st start date and must maintain eligibility for an
educational register license throughout their entire training program. Matched
applicants who are graduating in the spring will need to provide a copy of
their medical degree/diploma to the PGME office and the College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Saskatchewan (CPSS) prior to the start of residency training.
Any delays in providing all required documentation to CPSS may result in the
following:

  * delay in issuance of an educational register license and a delay in start of postgraduate training beyond July 1st
  * release from CaRMS match contract

**Applicants completing medical education at the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)**  are
required to submit proof of English language proficiency before the rank order
deadline to demonstrate they meet CPSS requirements. More information is
available under Supporting Documentation-Language Proficiency.

**NOTE:**  Applicants who are considering a delay to their convocation date
must be aware that a medical degree cannot be issued to a student until they
have convocated. CPSS bylaws require that new residents must have received
their medical degree prior to the commencement of residency training. Choosing
to delay convocation will affect a matched applicant’s ability to commence
their residency training program in Saskatchewan on July 1. Please refer to
the [U of S CaRMS Deferral Policy](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/carms-
deferral-of-training-start-date---match-violation-release-from-
match.php#relatedForms) for additional information.

**Credentialing**  
In order to commence and continue in Postgraduate Medical Education training
programs, matched applicants must be eligible for and maintain privileges
within the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) as determined by their
credentialing process. The Saskatchewan Health Authority requires successful
applicants to submit immunization records and a current criminal record check
as part of their pre-resident application for appointment. Applicants with
criminal records will be considered on a case by case basis by the College of
Medicine in consultation with the Health Authority.

Any delays in providing all required documentation to the Saskatchewan Health
Authority may result in a delay in the start of postgraduate training beyond
July 1st.

**Resident Boot Camp  
** All matched applicants must attend a mandatory three-day Resident Boot Camp
scheduled for late June. The purpose of the Boot Camp is to provide additional
support to trainees as they transition to residency by introducing and
consolidating baseline skills and knowledge needed to flourish during their
residency years. The program will include interactive case-based and hands-on
practice sessions. Stipends will be provided to trainees.

Attendance is required and absences are only permitted in exceptional
circumstances, with prior approval of PGME.

**Advanced Cardiac Life Support  
** Matched applicants are required to provide proof of ACLS certification
(current as of July 1, 2025) to the PGME office prior to starting their
training program. The ACLS course must be endorsed by the Heart and Stroke
Foundation of Canada and/or the American Heart Association. ACLS training that
is not certified by these two organizations and/or is completed entirely
through an online course will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for
all costs associated with obtaining ACLS certification.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

All applicants must be Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents at the time of
application and must submit a notarized/certified photocopy of one of the
accepted citizenship documents.

Proof of citizenship must be current at the time of application and expired
documents will not be accepted.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum of 7.0 in each of the components

**Language assessment document accepted:**

  1. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on paper at a test venue
  2. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on a computer at a test venue
  3. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine at Home

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum grade of B

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of 9 in all sections

Applicants may be required to provide proof of proficiency in the English
language to meet licensing requirements of the [College of Physicians and
Surgeons (CPSS) of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Licensure/Requirements_Content/English_Language_Proficiency.aspx).

Applicants who graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States,
where English is the language of instruction **are not**  required to submit
proof of English language proficiency.

**Canadian applicants with medical education from the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)  are required
**to meet the English language proficiency requirements of the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan and must complete one of the language
exams listed above.

Applicants who are required to complete a language exam must submit a valid
test score in their CaRMS application **by the deadline for submission and
assignment of applications and documents.** Applicants who do not provide
acceptable proof of language proficiency, if required, will not be ranked.

Applicants must meet all of the criteria in one of the IELTS, OET or CELPIP
examinations. Please note that results from examinations cannot be combined,
unless the testing institution offers a sub-test.  
NOTE: Only OET offers sub-tests. CPSS will accept sub-tests obtained within
the same 24-month period as the original OET exam was sat.

Please direct any questions about language requirements to
[della.toews@usask.ca](mailto:della.toews@usask.ca). Applicants should not
contact CPSS directly about their eligibility for licensure.

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter is required which states why the applicant chose
ophthalmology, any related experience and future plans.

Ophthalmological Report

Needs to include acuity, depth perception and color vision testing.

An ophthalmologist or optometrist signature on your report is considered
certification.

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 1, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: All interviews will be virtual in the 2025
CaRMS R-1 match. Interviews will be held on Saturday, February 1, 2025.
Applicants will be contacted prior to this date and given instructions along
with the link for interview day.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews are initiated by the
program.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

\- Acceptable academic record.

\- Proven interest in ophthalmology which can be demonstrated by electives.

\- Maturity, empathy, and excellent interpersonal skills.

## Program goals

The University of Saskatchewan offers a five-year comprehensive training in
Ophthalmology with subsequent eligibility for the Royal College specialty
examination.  Training is intended to prepare residents for the examination in
Ophthalmology of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada and to
produce competent general ophthalmologists who appreciate and understand the
importance of basic and clinical research in advancing knowledge in the field.

Upon completion of the educational program, a resident is expected to be a
competent Ophthalmologist capable of assuming a consultant's role in the
specialty.  Our program has historically produced excellent clinicians with
advanced surgical skills.  Our graduates often transition into general
ophthalmology practices with ease, or begins subspecialty fellowship training.  

The primary goal of the residency training program is to train competent
general ophthalmologists who are excellent clinicians and professionals.  A
significant amount of time is spent with the core training faculty in
Saskatoon.  Some rotations may be pursued with community faculty in Regina or
rural centers.  Many of the teaching faculty are located in private offices
but the main hub of resident education is at the Saskatoon City Hospital Eye
Care Center.  This state of the art facility is the location of the majority
of on call activity and resident teaching.  

Residents must demonstrate the requisite knowledge, skills, and behaviors for
effective patient-centered care and service to a diverse population.  In all
aspects of specialist practice, the graduate must be able to address ethical
issues and issues of gender, sexual orientation, age, culture, beliefs, and
ethnicity in a professional manner.  

## Selection process goals

As we have a small, tight-knit program, we value applicants that are
personable and easy to get along with. Residents that are self-starters,
motivated, autonomous and responsible often thrive in our program. We look for
strong communication skills so that the successful applicant will be an
exemplary clinician but will also mesh with the existing resident body.
Excellent academic track record and exposure to Ophthalmology research is an
asset. An interest in Ophthalmology as a career can be demonstrated by
clinical elective choice, but our program does value a well-rounded medical
school experience.

Additional training experiences above and beyond the traditional medical
school curriculum will be considered in a manner that upholds and respects the
principles of fairness, equity, and professionalism in the application,
selection, and matching process. Training experiences that fall outside of the
undergraduate medical education will be evaluated using existing institutional
rubrics specific to our program, and weighted in a manner that encourages
equity among all applicants.

## File review process

Review team composition : Review team consists of multiple ophthalmology
residents, program director, 2-3 faculty

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
We typically receive 60-75 applicants

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  
We interview 15-17 applicants each year

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Has applicant been successful in the work force?   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Interest in Ophthalmology? Broad experience?   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  All applicants must complete a Casper exam to be eligible for consideration.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Does applicant have interests outside of Ophthalmology?   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Does applicant have maturity to excel as a resident?   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Any interruptions in medical education trajectory?   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  What makes this applicant unique?   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Any red flags identified by referees?   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Does applicant have research experience?   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Has applicant ever failed a medical school class?   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evaluated during interview   
Collegiality |  Evaluated during interview   
Communication skills |  These are gauged intensively during interview process   
Health advocacy |  Evaluated during interview   
Interest in the discipline |  Usually evident after file review   
Interest in the program |  Evaluated during interview   
Leadership skills |  Assessed with specific interview questions   
Professionalism |  Evaluated during interview and throughout the application process   
Scholarly activities |  Evident with file review   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

### PGY-1

The first year will provide a broad clinical background for residents entering
ophthalmology. Minimum training requirements as set out in the Royal College
of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada Specialty Training Requirements (2012) -
a minimum of one month and a maximum of three months in each of the following:
Internal Medicine, Pediatrics, Neurology, Emergency Medicine,
Neuroimaging/Radiology and Plastic Surgery.  The basic clinical year is
undertaken in Saskatoon and/or Regina.

Currently at the end of PGY1 the resident attends the TORIC (Toronto
Ophthalmic Resident Introductory Course) in Toronto, Ontario (6 weeks in
length) with all the other PGY1 ophthalmology residents.

As of July 1, 2023, the Ophthalmology program at the University of
Saskatchewan has transitioned to Competency by Design.

### PGY-2 to 5

Comprehensive training will be given in general ophthalmology with
subspecialty exposure proposed in medical and surgical retina and vitreous,
pediatric ophthalmology and strabismus, glaucoma, corneal/external disease,
oculoplastic surgery and neuro-ophthalmology. Residents will participate in
rotations through the various clinics, rotate emergency call, provide
inpatient care and participate in surgery starting with extraocular surgery in
PGY-2 and progressing to intraocular surgery in more senior years. At the end
of the PGY-2 and the beginning of PGY-3, the applicant can attend the
Lancaster Basic Science Course in Ophthalmology in Waterville, Maine or at
Stanford University in California. The applicant is expected to complete the
American Academy of Ophthalmology Home Study Course in Ophthalmology during
PGY-2 and PGY-3. Each year from PGY-2 to PGY-5 the applicant writes the
Ophthalmic Knowledge Assessment Program (OKAP) examination. Mock oral
examinations are given twice yearly, and are designed to simulate the format
of the Royal College examinations.

PGY-2 to 5 will be located at the Eye Centre at Saskatoon City Hospital, with
community rotations.

### Seminars

Ongoing seminars are provided several days a week consisting of didactic
lectures, teleconferences, journal clubs and weekly grand rounds. Attendance
at scientific meetings is encouraged and may be funded depending on finances
available. A strong effort is made to provide funding for residents presenting
at conferences.

### Research

Each resident must initiate a research project which must be completed during
the course of residency.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Saskatoon Hospitals**

Royal University Hospital

Saskatoon City Hospital

St. Paul's Hospital

Jim Pattison Children's Hospital

PrairieView Surgical Centre

**Regina Hospitals**

Regina General Hospital

Pasqua Hospital

**Additional Resources**

Computer(s) with internet access and access to major ophthalmology journals is
provided.

**Quick Facts**

\- Ratio of residents to faculty is 1:2.

\- Average patient load is 15-25 patients per day in urgent care

-Average patient load is 25-40 patients per day in clinic

\- There are mandatory community rotations.

\- Interprovincial and international electives are only available if that
particular rotation is unavailable locally.

**Distributive Learning at the University of Saskatchewan**

The College of Medicine, while physically located in Saskatoon, is a
provincial resource in attitude and in practice. Postgraduate medical
education at the University of Saskatchewan takes seriously its role in
supporting quality health care to all people of the province. This means
training physicians to meet the needs of, not only urban populations, but also
those of rural and remote populations. In so doing, the College of Medicine
has developed, and continues to develop, rotations in Regina and other
communities. These rotations are designed to provide educational experiences
to enhance the resident's knowledge and skills, and take maximum advantage of
unique educational opportunities in a diversity of communities. All
postgraduate programs are expected to develop and incorporate into their
curriculum, rotations in communities other than Saskatoon. The manner in which
each program does this is not strictly prescribed by the College of Medicine -
but is determined by the Residency Training Committee, taking into
consideration the needs of their residents, and the excellent opportunities
available in other locations. These rotations continue to evolve as we seek to
build stronger and better programs.

Extensive support is available for rotations completed at other sites in the
province. The exact nature of this support varies with location and program.
The communities involved, individual programs, the College of Medicine, and
the Ministry of Health work collaboratively to ensure residents are not
financially disadvantaged by the need to relocate. Temporary housing is
available at no expense to residents who leave their home site to complete
short term mandatory rotations at distributed sites in Saskatchewan. Please
review the [PGME Housing Guidelines](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/pgme-
housing-guidelines-pgme-housing-application-for-short-term-mandatory-
rotation.php#relatedForms) for more detailed information.

While all residents are strongly encouraged to take advantage of educational
experiences in other communities to ensure a well rounded education, the
amount and format of such time is determined by the program committee. Royal
College Specialty residents are expected to complete 10% - 20% of their
training in Regina.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26778?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26778