#  Western University - Psychiatry - Windsor  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 25, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. James Ross  

Address Psychiatry  
London Health Sciences Centre - Victoria Hospital  
800 Commissioners Road E., Zone B, 8th Floor, B8-102  
London, Ontario, N6A 5W9  

Websites of Interest [ Department of Psychiatry at Western University
](https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/psychiatry/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. James Ross

Title: Program Director

  

Name: Dr. Jonathan Gregory

Title: Associate Program Director

  

Name: Dr. Kristina Levang

Title: Associate Program Director - Windsor Site

  

Name: Dr. Sabrina Botsford

Title: Assistant Program Director - Windsor Site

  

Name: Bela Franze

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: PGEPsychiatry@lhsc.on.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Information sessions are being held in the Fall of 2024 (October/November).
Candidates will have the opportunity to learn about the Psychiatry Residency
Program (London and Windsor), ask questions, and meet our residents and
program directors.

For the CaRMS Town Hall Event registration and additional details about our
program, please click
[here](https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/psychiatry/education/postgraduate/future_residents/carms.html).

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Western University will offer Psychiatry residency positions at two separate
sites:

Windsor campus  - 4 spots (3 CMG / 1 IMG)

London campus  -  9 spots (6 CMG / 3 IMG)

Organizationally, both sites are part of one program and CaRMS interviews for
both sites will be conducted together.  However, there is a separate
application for each site.  You may apply to one or both sites.

  * Royal College accredited program (Accredited with 2-year follow-up) and subspecialty programs in Psychogeriatrics and Child and Adolescent Psychiatry.

  * Interprovincial electives can be taken in the PGY-1, PGY-4, and PGY-5 years.

  * International electives can be taken in the PGY-4 and PGY-5 years.

  * Ratio of residents to faculty is very favourable.  Residents can expect to have 1:1 supervision on most rotations with supervisors who are dedicated to medical education.

  * The size of the Windsor program allows for more direct supervision yet provides residents with exposure to the full breadth of psychiatric practice available in larger settings.

  * The number of residents in the program fosters a sense of community and camaraderie within the resident body.

  * There are no mandatory rural rotations, but we fully support and encourage the rural experience with support from Distributed Education Network (DEN) and Ontario Psychiatric Postgraduate Education Network (OPPEN).
  * We provide residents with access to electronic medical information resources.

  * Program strongly supports resident social activities.

The size of the program allows individual attention and regular one-to-one
contact between faculty and residents.  The number of residents also
facilitates cohesiveness.  Residents in psychiatry at Western come from
medical schools across the country and around the world, adding richness and
diversity to the group.

Residents take a very active and substantive role in the continuous quality
improvement of the program.  Significant flexibility is offered in the
selection of their rotations.

New residents coming to Windsor typically have no difficulty locating
affordable accommodation in the city of Windsor.  Windsor remains a wonderful
city for young families.

Medical work abounds in the area and the area is known for its centrality and
ease of access to multiple U.S. and world cities.  Additional information
about Windsor can be found at www.visitwindsoressex.com

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided (by submitting one
of the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.
Failure to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.
No other forms of verification are acceptable.  

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of card must be provided and legible.

Reference documents

Required

Applicant support form  Number requested: 3

Traditional letters of reference are no longer accepted for this program. Your
referee must complete the required structured reference form. Please include
this link in your reference request:
<https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/2025-Psychiatry-Structured-Reference-Letter-EN.pdf>

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

In the personal letter, please outline:

1\. Why psychiatry interests you?

2\. What experiences  prepare you to practice psychiatry?

3\. Describe any challenges or adversity you have overcome in becoming a
doctor and how you overcame them?

4\. What does EDI in psychiatry mean to you, whether in terms of personal
experiences, advocacy work or reflection?

5\. What doubts you have about becoming a psychiatrist?

**Our program does not accept personal letters with any content generated by
AI programs such as ChatGPT. Spelling and grammar check is acceptable.
****Please write a line in your letter stating that no AI was used in the
creation of the content of your personal letter.**

No minimum/1000 word maximum.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

We will NOT accept any documents sent directly to our office.  We will only
consider references and supporting documents submitted to the CaRMS site.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025
  * January 24, 2025
  * January 29, 2025

Details regarding interview dates:

#### Candidates selected for interviews will be contacted by email.
Candidates who are not offered interviews will not be contacted.

#### Interviews will be scheduled in order of receipt of confirmation email by
the candidate.

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process:  For more information regarding the
Residency Training Program in Psychiatry at Western, applicants are encouraged
to visit our website:  
  
 <https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/psychiatry/education/postgraduate/index.html>  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Our program is looking for candidates who have excellent interpersonal skills,
good clinical judgment, high ethical and professional standards, and a genuine
interest in psychiatry.  Selection is based on the dossier you submit, as well
as the interviews on CaRMS day.  The interview segment is mandatory.  The
strength of the applicants' academic record and interest in psychiatry, as
represented by the Medical Student Performance Record, medical school
transcript, the personal letter, letters of reference, and the interview all
factor into into the ranking of candidates.  A candidate's experience
overcoming adversity and their connection with a particular community.

## Program goals

The Department of Psychiatry at the Schulich School of Medicine & Dentistry,
Western University is committed to providing residents with a comprehensive
training program that will prepare them to be exceptional psychiatrists in
whatever practice setting they choose.  We aim to provide residents with a
mulifaceted and balanced educational experience that emphasizes biological,
psychological, and sociocultural aspects of psychiatry practice and prepares
them for lifelong learning.  Flexiblity is prioritized so the residents can
customize their residency experience to suit their clinical and academic
interests.  We endeavor to foster the growth and development of our residents
so that they can be the psychiatrists they strive to be while meeting the
needs of our patients and society.



## Selection process goals

The Department of Psychiatry at Schulich School of Medicine & Dentistry at
Western University emphasizes a culture of collaboration, excellence and
compassion.  Our mission is to produce outstanding psychiatrists to serve the
community, to contribute to academic endeavours and to advance the field of
psychiatry.  We seek candidates who are curious to learn about the human mind
and who are compassionate in the face of the suffering of others.
Demonstrated pursuit of excellence in medicine through learning clinical
skills, teaching and research is essential to successful candidates.  Our
program aims to have a group of residents with a diversity of skills,
background experiences and interests that rounds out and strengthens our
program.

## File review process

Review team composition : The CaRMS Committee consists of members of the
Residency Program Committee, other psychiatry faculty, and resident
representatives.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 401 - 600  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Extracurricular activities, evidence of leadership, research productivity.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Onsite electives are encouraged and are a strong feature of an application but are not an absolute requirement.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Examination results are not directly used in all application reviews but may be taken into account within broader assessment of an applicant’s file.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of interest in a variety of activities demonstrating balance and well-roundedness.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of leadership potential.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evidence of lapses in professionalism.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Evidence of a genuine interest and understanding of psychiatry.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Evidence of superior performance in clinical activities.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Evidence of interest and productivity in research activities.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evidence of consistent performance.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: While onsite electives are encouraged and are a strong
feature of an application, they are not a requirement.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence of collaborative skills   
Collegiality |  Evidence of collegiality   
Communication skills |  Evidence of good communication skills   
Health advocacy |  Evidence of good health advocacy   
Interest in the discipline |  Evidence of genuine interest in psychiatry   
Interest in the program |  Evidence of genuine interest in the training program at Western   
Leadership skills |  Evidence of leadership potential   
Professionalism |  Evidence of professional behaviour   
Scholarly activities |  Evidence of research productivity   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * Royal College accredited program.

  * One block of orientation prior to the onset of service.  This is unique to our program.
  * Favourable faculty to resident ratio, allowing for 1:1 supervision for residents.

  * Excellent research supervisors and facilities.

  * Resident Research Track
  * Royal College subspecialty training opportunities in Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Geriatric Psychiatry.  The PGY-5 year can be used as the first year of subspecialty training.

  * International electives available for senior residents.

  * No mandatory rural rotations although rural rotations are fully supported and encouraged through DEN and OPPEN.

  * National leader in resident preparation for Royal College OSCE exams.

  * Graded call experience.

  * Residents take on a very active role in the continuous quality improvement of the program with resident representation on most departmental committees.

  * Very favourable cost of living and attractive lifestyle opportunities in the City of Windsor.

  * As a relatively new program, you have a chance to help pioneer Psychiatry Residency training in the City of Windsor.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

### **TEACHING SITES**

All of the hospitals in Windsor are affiliated with Western’s Schulich School
of Medicine & Dentistry.  Windsor excels in education and patient care.

**Toldo Neurobehavioural Institute, Hotel-Dieu Grace Healthcare** :

  * Inpatient and Outpatient treatments
  * Mood disorders
  * Schizophrenia and Psychotic disorders
  * Dual Diagnosis
  * Geriatric
  * Concurrent Disorders
  * ECT
  * Consult Liaison

**Windsor Regional Hospital: Ouellete Campus and Metropolitan Campus  
**

  * ER Psychiatry/On Call
  * Consult Liaison
  * Inpatient

**Maryvale:**

  * Child & Adolescent treatment centre

All of these facilities provide very comprehensive exposure to all aspects of
Psychiatry and Medicine.

### **CURRICULUM**

The educational needs of psychiatry trainees are paramount in Windsor.  The
training program meets all Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
(RCPSC) certification requirements.

### **YEAR 1  
**

All programs in Windsor commence on **July 1st**.

The PGY-1 curriculum is designed to provide a superb introduction to the
Department of Psychiatry and the areas of medicine relevant to a career in
psychiatry.

The Psychiatry residency training program in Windsor has a very innovative
block-long orientation program offered during July that is unique across the
entire country.  It provides new residents with an extended period of time to
grow accustomed to the city, as well as time to tour the many community
agencies partnered with the hospital.

The PGY-2 to PGY-5 curriculum has been devised to fulfill current Royal
College requirements.

  * PGY-2: General Adult Psychiatry rotations (inpatient and outpatient)

  * PGY-3: Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Geriatric Psychiatry rotations

  * PGY-4 and PGY-5: required rotations in Consultation-Liaison Psychiatry, Shared Care, and Severe and Persistent Mental Illness

The PGY-4 and PGY-5 years also include time for selective and electives
rotations.

Throughout the PGY-2 to PGY-5 years, there are longitudinal learning
experiences in Psychotherapy (CBT, DBT, Psychodynamic, Group, Supportive,
Motivational Interviewing), Addictions, and Research.

### **ELECTIVES / SELECTIVES  
**

Rotation selection is determined primarily by the particular interests and
career goals of the individual residents and enables residents to undertake
the broadest possible experience before making final career decisions.

Electives are available in collaborative (shared) mental health care services,
forensic assessments at jails or detention centres, community clinic
consultations in and outside of Windsor, research projects, psychotherapy,
psychogeriatrics, psychoses, mood and anxiety disorders, neuropsychiatry,
rural psychiatry, consultation-liaison, eating disorders, concurrent
disorders, emergency psychiatry, and a growing number of other options.

### **PSYCHOTHERAPY**

Training is conducted throughout the years of residency and includes formal
seminars, individual and group supervision, interviewing skills seminars, and
psychotherapy workshops.

Skilled supervision in many modalities is available, including CBT, DBT,
Psychodynamic, Group, Supportive and Motivational Interviewing.  

Protected time is provided throughout the PGY-2 to PGY-5 years in order to
complete practical psychotherapy training hours.

### **CHILD AND ADOLESCENT PSYCHIATRY  
**

The Department of Psychiatry in Windsor offers an excellent experience in
Child and Adolescent Psychiatry.

The Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry is very active with a wide
range of experiences available in a variety of settings including inpatient,
day treatment, outpatient, and telepsychiatry programs.

Residents will have the opportunity to work in hospitals, children's mental
health agencies, schools and other community agencies.  Opportunities are also
available in centres in London.

Training is available in a variety of therapies including family, group,
individual, play, behaviour management, cognitive behavioural, interpersonal,
dialectical behavioural, and psychopharmacology.

Many research opportunities are available in areas such as pervasive
developmental disorders, mood and anxiety disorders, eating disorders,
psychotropic medications, and psychotherapeutic interventions.

Formal subspecialty training is available for those residents interested in
pursuing a career in Child and Adolescent Psychiatry.

### **GERIATRIC PSYCHIATRY  
**

Geriatric Psychiatry is multi-disciplinary and has links with family medicine,
geriatric medicine/physical rehabilitation, and neurology.  There is a
regional geriatric psychiatry program, a geriatric community outreach program,
an active geriatric consultation-liaison service, and significant
opportunities for research.

Formal subspecialty training is available for those residents interested in
pursuing a career in Geriatric Psychiatry.

### **FORENSIC PSYCHIATRY  
**

Forensic psychiatry training is a unique and fascinating specialty arm devoted
to caring for people with mental health disorders who also have legal issues.

Our work is exceptionally broad in scope and consequently offers the
opportunity to tailor your training or career to meet your goals.  Examples of
some of our colleagues include legal counsel, mental health courts,
correctional centres, the Ontario Review Board, the Consent and Capacity
Board, and the Faculty of Law.

Forensic subspecialty training is in the developmental stage.





  
  

### **RESEARCH**

Residents are participating in research as part of their training, consistent
with the Royal College training recommendations.

Training in research is provided as part of the teaching modules in the
program.

The department has active research programs under the guidance of Dr. Priya
Sharma who is a well-known researcher in multiple areas of psychopharmacology
and will provide supervision and training in research.

### **EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES  
**

Thursdays are devoted for educational purposes and residents are excused from
clinical duties for scheduled educational activities.  Educational time is
either a half day or full day depending on year of training.

Didactic teaching of core material is an important part of our training
experience and has been integrated into the residents’ clinical schedule.

During the PGY-2 to PGY-4 years, core modules are taught, covering the topics
of adult, child and adolescent, psychotherapy, and geriatric psychiatry.  The
modules also include essential topics in forensic, social, administrative
psychiatry, epidemiology, and research methodology.

Interviewing skills are emphasized throughout the four years of psychiatry
specific training.  Interviewing sessions are geared towards preparation for
the Standardized Assessment of a Clinical Encounter (STACER) examinations.
Successful completion of the STACER examination is required for Royal College
of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada certification.

Evaluation using the objective structured clinical examination (OSCE) method
is part of the spring Royal College examinations.  OSCE skills are also
emphasized throughout the four years of psychiatry specific training at
Western with monthly sessions utilizing what is probably the most extensive
and formalized OSCE resource of any psychiatry residency training program in
Canada.

Monthly resident facilitated evidence-based practice sessions are tutored by
an expert in the field and Critically Appraised Topics (CATs) are prepared by
the resident facilitator for each session which is then converted for web-
based use by all psychiatry trainees at Western.

Western psychiatry residents have a very high success rate at Royal College
examinations.

### **ON-CALL DUTIES  
**

**  
**On-call will be coordinated mostly through Windsor Regional Hospital.   On-
call in Windsor is shared with the medical students in clerkship to provide a
clinical teaching opportunity for the residents.  Senior residents are also
provided with the opportunity to supervise and mentor junior residents while
on call.

At this point, residents are not expected to stay in the hospital overnight
and most on call duties are completed by 11:00 PM in the evening.

Consultant back-up will always be available.

* * *

# Training Sites

### **Training Sites**

All of the hospitals in Windsor are associated with Western's Schulich School
of Medicine & Dentistry and excel in education and patient care.



**Teaching Hospitals**

Windsor is in the midst of planning for and producing a super hospital but in
the meantime we have three campuses.

**Windsor Regional Hospital Ouellete:** This site has 68 beds and offers a
full range of medical services and psychiatric services.

Metropolitan campus does not have any acute psychiatry beds but does provide
consultation-liaison and may be a part of the resident's educational
experience.

**Toldo Neurobehavioural Institute at Hotel-Dieu Grace Healthcare, Tayfour
Campus:** Campus has a tertiary facility with 49 beds as well as a range of
outpatient services for acute and chronic psychiatric disorders as well as
developmental disabilities and dual diagnosis.



**Additional Teaching Hospitals**

The Windsor program is relatively new.  It is small, very intimate, and one of
the great advantages of Windsor is the contact with the preceptors.

It is an exciting time to be starting in Windsor and opportunities abound for
a future in a very livable and very stable community.

* * *

# Additional Information

The size of the Western University Psychiatry Residency Program allows for
individual attention and regular one on one contact between residents and
faculty - and yet, it is large enough to offer exposure to a wide variety of
subspecialties and world class research opportunities.

The number of residents also facilitates cohesiveness.  Residents in
psychiatry at Western come from medical schools across the country and around
the world adding richness and diversity to the group.

The training program offers a broad and exceptional range of learning
opportunities including outstanding preparation for the Royal College exams
and subspecialty opportunities.

**All information contained is subject to change until such time as the rank
order lists are filed.**

**Please ensure you review information on a regular basis.**

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27337?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27337