#  Queen’s University - Psychiatry - Kingston  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on February 19, 2025

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Matthew Tobin  

Address Psychiatry  
Providence Care Hospital  
752 King Street West  
Kingston, Ontario, K7L 4X3  

Work  (613) 544-4900

(613) 548-5580 (Fax)

Websites of Interest [ Department of Psychiatry
](http://psychiatry.queensu.ca)  
[ Psychiatry Residency Video ](https://youtu.be/oLAhf30cZAY)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Courtney Vandermeer

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: vandermc@providencecare.ca

Phone: 613-544-4900 X52050

  

* * *

# Important Information

## _**Queen's Psychiatry - Ask a Resident Night**_

The Queen's University Psychiatry Program will be hosting two virtual
information sessions (via Zoom) to share our program features with you. The
sessions will be hosted by current residents and we will be prepared to answer
your questions and showcase our program and city. These sessions are open only
to medical students applying to the CaRMS R-1 Match.

Please register in advance for one of the below sessions.



**Session #1: Tuesday, October 15, 2024 from 7:00 – 8:30pm (Eastern Time)**

Register in advance for session #1 by using the following link:
<https://queensu.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJwtd-2tqz8oGddqlgNBsspqPNvpKsAyOCLo>[
](https://queensu.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJwtd-2tqz8oGddqlgNBsspqPNvpKsAyOCLo)



**Session #2: Thursday, October 17, 2024 from 7:00 – 8:30pm (Eastern Time)**

Register in advance for session #2 by using the following link:
<https://queensu.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJYvdeihqDkoGdZ_uB-
mEZmMWkRBxBgudMhY>





**Follow our residency program on Instagram:  @queenspsychmd**

**Electives**

We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted candidates’ opportunities
to arrange and complete electives and would like to reassure you that a lack
of elective activity this year will not negatively impact your application to
our program.

COVID-19 vaccination requirements:

Please refer to the 'Restrictions' section of the [Ontario eligibility
criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/) for messaging regarding COVID-19 vaccination requirements.

**EDIIA Institutional Statement:**

The goal of resident selection is to identify trainees likely to succeed both
in training and, once out in practice, in meeting the health care needs of
patients and Canadian society.  We know that having a physician workforce that
reflects the demographics of the patients that they serve improves health care
outcomes.  There are many populations within Canada under-represented in
medicine (UIM) with a paucity of health care practitioners who are Black,
Indigenous, Persons of Colour, 2SLGBTQ+, from lower socioeconomic backgrounds
and/or with disabilities, and other under-represented in medicine (UIM)
groups. Diversity within training programs has also been shown to improve
training environments.  Queen’s University PGME is strongly committed to
diversity and inclusion within its community for these reasons as well as
being part of the solution to address historic and contemporary inequities.

**Equity and diversity**

We welcome diversity among our trainees and seek to foster an environment that
is welcoming to all, regardless of gender identity, race, religion, or sexual
orientation.

We are committed to advancing equitable and inclusive practices.  Please refer
to the [PGME website](https://meds.queensu.ca/academics/postgraduate/faculty-
staff/applicant-selection) for additional information / resources including
[QHS EDIIA Initiatives](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi) and [EDIIA
statements](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi/accessibility-
statements) (Indigenous Land Acknowledgement, Anti-Discrimination Statement,
Inclusion Statement, and Statement on Social Accountability)

**Gaps in Training, Remediation, or Professionalism issues**

Please address any gaps in training, remediation, or professionalism issues in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count.

**Pre-residency Orientation Programs**

All IMG candidates accepted to all residency programs will be required to
complete either the Pre-Residency Program (PRP) or the Pre-Residency Program
for Family Medicine (PRPFM) prior to entering into a residency program.
Matched IMGs will be expected to attend these programs in Toronto, several
weeks in advance of the start of their residency program. In some cases, this
may result in a delay of the start date of the residency. Additional
information on the PRP and PRP FM programs can be found at the following link:
[Touchstone
Institute](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.touchstoneinstitute.ca%2F&data=05%7C01%7Cdj6%40queensu.ca%7Ce51b0f1cd3e14900b29608db9ffdba29%7Cd61ecb3b38b142d582c4efb2838b925c%7C1%7C0%7C638279684443962867%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=nOdWTPW4lY5Glu0OHgZOcxeQr4SMppL%2FrOkBrPf2edo%3D&reserved=0).

**Assessment Verification Period**

All IMG candidates accepted to residency training programs will be required to
undergo an Assessment Verification Period (AVP). This assessment period is
normally 12 weeks in length and is required by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Ontario to obtain an educational license to enter a residency
program. [CPSO – International Medical Graduates
(IMGs)](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cpso.on.ca%2FPhysicians%2FRegistration%2FInternational-
Medical-
Graduates&data=05%7C01%7Cdj6%40queensu.ca%7Ce51b0f1cd3e14900b29608db9ffdba29%7Cd61ecb3b38b142d582c4efb2838b925c%7C1%7C0%7C638279684443962867%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=ZHkMXUvdXBPRump7y%2BTd4uQ0f4u9YXom6lt7cM70n0Q%3D&reserved=0).

IMGs that have failed an AVP and are reapplying through CaRMS are ineligible
to apply for training in the same specialty in Ontario but may apply to a
different specialty in the first and/or second iteration. IMGs who have
withdrawn from a program prior to completion of an AVP must declare so upon
application.

* * *

# Return of Service

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  



The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.



More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

** **

**If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health
at**[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)

** **

_**PLEASE NOTE: YOU ARE REQUIRED TO FULFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**_

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Applicants should provide _all required information_.  Any questions about
requirements or the interview process should be directed to Courtney
Vandermeer at vandermc@providencecare.ca







Please note that due to the volume of applications our program receives we are
not able to provide individual feedback to applicants who are not successful
in the match.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Alternative proof of language proficiency  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Language assessment document accepted:  TOEFL-iBT, TOEFL-iBT Home Edition
accepted**

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid by (not expired) up to July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section
  * The **TOEFL iBT Home Edition**  will be accepted as a substitute for the TOEFL iBT.

**Language assessment document accepted:**  **IELTS Academic**

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid by (not expired) up to July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:**  7 in each of the four skills in the same sitting
  * The **IELTS Indicator**  will be accepted as a substitute for the Academic Version of the IELTS

**Language assessment document accepted:  Occupational English Test (OET) -
Medicine**

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid by (not expired) up to July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General**

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid by (not expired) up to July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum score of 9 in each of the four skills in the same setting

**Language assessment document accepted:**  **Letter of language proficiency**

Letter of language proficiency is a letter from your Dean attesting that your
medical school program of instruction was completed solely in English or
French.

**Language assessment document accepted:**  **FAIMER / World Directory of
Medical Schools**

Candidates can submit a printout from the [World Directory of Medical
Schools](http://www.wdoms.org/) (FAIMER) **which clearly states** that the
language of instruction is English or French.



Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site. Please
review specific program descriptions for more information.

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

IMGs must have written and passed the Medical Council of Canada Qualifying
Examination Part 1 (MCCQE1)

IMGs must have written and passed the Medical Council of Canada Qualifying
Examination Part 1 (MCCQE1)

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

Reference documents

Required

Applicant support form  Number requested: 3

Traditional letters of reference are no longer accepted for this program. Your
referee must complete the required structured reference form. Please include
this link in your reference request:
<https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/2025-Psychiatry-Structured-Reference-Letter-EN.pdf>

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Please include a current CV in your application package.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

A personal letter must be submitted (approximately 750 words). The letter
should communicate the characteristics you have that make you suited to
psychiatry (150 words); Describe how your choice of psychiatry has been
confirmed in your medical school experience (100 words); In your opinion, what
are the two biggest challenges facing the discipline of psychiatry (200
words);  What might be the two biggest challenges you will face as you become
a psychiatrist (150 words); What specifically about the Queen's Psychiatry
Program do you think suits your goals and interests (150 words).

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

A copy of your Medical Degree is required if you are not a current year
graduate.  

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 28, 2025
  * January 29, 2025

Details regarding interview dates:

After review of CaRMS applications, candidates will be short-listed on the
basis of selection criteria. _**Candidates chosen for an interview will be
informed of their status via email.  ** _Interviews will be held virtually on
**January 28 and January 29**.  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Our program uses a mix of traditional
(conversational involving one or more questions) and Multi-Mini Interviews
(MMIs) to assess candidates.  MMIs are short clinical scenarios that may
involve role play in order to assess professionalism, communication and other
qualities.  Interviews are held virtually. The program will use a platform
called Kira Talent to host these live interviews.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

The Department of Psychiatry at Queen's University is committed to training
residents in clinical skills necessary to become a psychiatrist based on sound
theoretical, academic and research knowledge.   This requires a strong core
academic program, excellent clinical rotations and reserach electives.  We
provide this in the context of energetic, enthusiastic faculty who are
exceptional mentors.  We are fervent supporters of the diverse career
aspirations of our trainees and therefore, endeavour to provide flexibility in
pursuing career goals during the five years of training at Queen's University.

## Selection process goals

The major factors that influence the Program's interview selection and ranking
process are:  1.  Strength of the academic records (as measured by the Medical
School Performance Record and Medical School Transcript).  A good academic
record should demonstrate special proficiency in psychiatry and related
subjects.  The application should confirm the candidates interest in mental
health and psychiatry as well as interest or experience in scientific or
clinical research;  2.  Letters of reference;  3\. Your personal letter;  4.
Your graduation year, with preference to _recent graduates_ ;  5.  Interview.  

During the interview, candidates are expected to demonstrate:  Clear interest
in psychiatry,  excellent communication and interpersonal skills,  maturity,
empathy and sensitivity,  excellent clinical judgment,  high ethical and
professional standards.

The Queen's University, Department of Psychiatry Residency Program encourages
applications from IMGs. Please be advised that the Ontario Government expects
a return to service commitment from all successful IMG candidates.

Please note that [Touchstone's Pre-Residency Program
(PRP)](https://touchstoneinstitute.ca/learning/) is mandatory for candidates
who have been accepted into a specialty residency training program in Ontario.

## File review process

Review team composition : File reviewers, comprised of faculty and residents,
review and score applicant files.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 201 - 400  
We typically receive over 290 IMG applications per year.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Reviewed but not scored   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Points for Electives in Psychiatry   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  MCCQE1 and NAC. MCCQE2 can be accepted in place of NAC   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Points for extracurricular activities   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Not scored   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Reviewed but not scored   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Points for interest in Psychiatry and quality of letter   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Points for quality of references   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Points for Psychiatry Research and other research   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Reviewed but not scored   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Rubric with specific anchors   
Collegiality |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Communication skills |  Rubric with specific anchors   
Health advocacy |  Not scored   
Interest in the discipline |  Rubric with specific anchors   
Interest in the program |  We do not evaluate this component during the interview   
Leadership skills |  Rubric with specific anchors   
Professionalism |  Rubric with specific anchors   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  Applicant misrepresents self;  
Applicant interests and career goals we cannot accommodate  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

About Queen's  University

Queen's University has a long-standing tradition of excellence in medical
education.

The Department of Psychiatry at Queen's University is committed to training
residents in clinical skills necessary to become a psychiatrist based on sound
theoretical, academic and research knowledge. We have a strong core academic
program, excellent clinical rotations and research electives. We provide this
in the context of energetic, enthusiastic faculty who are exceptional mentors.
We are fervent supporters of the diverse career aspirations of our trainees
and therefore, endeavor to provide flexibility in pursuing personal career
goals during the five years at Queen's University.

Ideal program size   |  Individual continuous observation and feedback Intellectually stimulating atmosphere Collegial and friendly faculty personally committed to helping residents realize their full potential as a clinician, educator and researcher  
---|---  
Strong Department with a clear vision and mission |  Excellent core residency program is identified as one of our key priorities.  Residents experience breadth and diversity in their training through the divisions of adult (acute, rehabilitation and community), shared care, child & adolescent, student, geriatric, developmental disabilities and forensic mental health.  
Focus on inter-professional collaboration |  Close working relationship with residents in provision of excellence in academic mission and clinical service delivery  
Diverse backgrounds |  Truly international program allows for variety of  experiences and ideas  to be shared  
Outstanding people |  Residents: high rate of success in RCPSC exams    
 Faculty |  National and international recognition in academic achievements  
Focus on Research |  Queen’s University is a recognized centre of excellence Strong support for resident involvement Number of highly regarded research programs (autism, stigma, geriatric psychiatry, schizophrenia, mood and sleep disorders)  Clinician Investigator Program available to residents  
Comprehensive psychotherapy training |  Longitudinal training in _all_ modalities Cultural competence and self awareness training Two annual CBT courses/IPT Course  
Full Royal College accreditation |  Next review 2026  
Kingston |  Repeatedly ranked as one of the best Canadian cities to live and work in  
  


* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**PGY 1**

This basic clinical year (PGY-1) is designed based on the Royal College
Guidelines.

_Our goal is to provide residents with introduction to the Department of
Psychiatry and the areas of medicine relevant to a career in psychiatry. The
rotations are selected to also facilitate success on the Medical Council of
Canada Qualifying Examination Part II requirements._



**_Rotation_** |  **_Duration_**  
---|---  
_Psychiatry  _ |  _4 blocks  _  
_Research_ |  _1 block_  
_Geriatric medicine_ |  _1 block_  
_Internal Medicine_ |  _1 block  _  
_Emergency Medicine_ |  _1 block  _  
_Pediatrics_ |  _1 block  _  
_Neurology_ |  _1 block  _  
_Family medicine  _ |  _1 block_  
_Rehabilitative Medicine_ |  _1 block_  
Hospital Medicine |  _1 block  _  
  
**Core Residency Program (PGY 2 & 3)**

PGY 2 |  6 blocks Inpatient Psychiatry 4 blocks Outpatient Psychiatry 2 blocks Emergency Psychiatry 1 block Research  
---|---  
PGY 3 |  6  blocks Child & Youth Psychiatry 6  blocks Geriatric Psychiatry 1 block Consultation Liaison Psychiatry  
  
**Senior Residency (PGY 4 & 5)**

PGY 4  Mandatory rotations include 3 blocks of Consultation-liaison
psychiatry, 2 blocks of shared care psychiatry, 3 blocks of chronic care
psychiatry, 2 blocks addictions, 2 blocks personality disorders, and 1 block
of emergency psychiatry.

During PGY 5, the resident assumes more leadership in the education and
supervision of junior residents, while consolidating and further developing
career track interest through electives and selectives, including research.

** **

** **

**Electives/Selectives  **

Rotation selection is determined based on the particular interests and career
goals of the individual residents. We encourage residents to obtain broad
clinical and academic experiences before making final career decisions.

Electives include inpatient and outpatient general adult psychiatry,
collaborative mental health care services (shared care), forensic psychiatry,
research projects, psychotherapy, geriatric psychiatry, psychoses, mood
disorders, consultation-liaison, eating disorders, concurrent disorders,
emergency psychiatry and a growing number of other options.

** **

**Academic Program**

Our Academic Curriculum consists of didactic and clinical skills development
aimed at training residents to become leading future psychiatrists.  This
includes organized core didactic seminars, interviewing skills sessions, small
group practices in Phenomenology, Diagnosis and Management and psychotherapy
teaching which occur throughout the year.

Residents have protected time Wednesday afternoons, from 1:00 p.m - 4:30 p.m.
during their PGY-2 to 5.  Journal Club and Wellness Sessions occur monthly at
noon, prior to academic day.

During PGY1, residents attend the summer teaching series.  Sessions include a
number of introductory topics: History of Psychiatry, Diagnosis and
Classification, Resources, Children & Youth in the ER, Adults in the ER, the
Mental Health Act, etc.

The focus in junior years is on small group teaching encompassing core topics
in psychiatry including etiology, phenomenology, descriptive psychopathology,
diagnosis and treatment of psychiatric disorders across the life cycle as well
as interviewing and case formulation.

Residents in their senior years PGY 4 and 5 are involved consolidating
knowledge at an advanced level to prepare for the Royal College examination
and to prepare to work as an independent psychiatrist.  Senior residents
prepare for their Royal College final examinations through practice long case
examinations and PDMs (Phenomenology Diagnostic and Management Practice
Stations).  

Senior Residents have the opportunity to attend Annual Review Courses in
Psychiatry, and are relieved of clinical duties to attend.

Psychotherapy teaching includes theory of psychotherapy practice, research
methodology and critical appraisal.  Residents gain proficiency in cognitive
behaviour therapy (CBT), psychodynamic psychotherapy, interpersonal therapy
(IPT), family, group and couple therapy.  Our program follows the Royal
College Guideline requirements.

Emergency psychiatry rounds (weekly), Geriatric Rounds (bimonthly),  Journal
Club reviews under the supervision of a staff psychiatrist (monthly), and
Psychiatry Grand Rounds (weekly), supplement the core academic teaching.
Individual services have formal case based teaching and specialty specific
literature reviews (weekly).

Practice STACERs or Diagnostic Interview examinations are integrated into
every core rotation. The STACER examinations in the senior years are
integrated into the rotations of the Senior Residency. Residents have multiple
opportunities to meet the STACER requirement by the early PGY5 year leaving
ample time to prepare for the written and oral Royal College Exams.

**On-Call  **

Staff psychiatrists supervise and support resident interaction with patients
in the emergency department. On-call duties are shared among the junior and
senior residents (buddy system for all calls) Residents provide coverage on
weekends, and from 5:00 pm \- 8:30 am on weekdays.  After hours call frequency
is approximately 1 in 14.

**Research Training Program  **

The Department is dedicated to clinical research and provides residents with
opportunities to be mentored by Faculty actively involved in research. The
residents participate in ongoing research projects and are encouraged and
mentored to initiate their own research projects.

The program has two formal streams. Each resident can choose which stream to
pursue during their residency, and there is the possibility of switching
streams if necessary.

Residents choosing the General Research Stream will be expected to participate
in all aspects of research but do not have to do this as part of a single
project or present or publish as first author. In PGY4, they will be expected
to produce a manuscript or summary of projects to show they have met the
research training requirements. With permission, residents in this stream can
switch to the Intensive Research Stream during the first 2 years of their
residency.

Residents choosing the Intensive Research Stream will be expected to
participate in all aspects of research. They will be expected to be first
author on a submitted manuscript and present at the departmental research day
and a national or international conference. These residents will schedule
research electives.

Guidance is available from departmental members for study design methodology
and statistical analysis as well as preparing projects for publication in peer
reviewed journals.

The Clinician Investigator Program (CIP) is also available for Queen’s
psychiatry residents. The CIP's mandate is to assist in the career development
of clinician/investigators by providing a formalized postgraduate educational
program that fulfills the existing clinical specialty training requirements of
the Royal College, as well as a minimum of two years of structured rigorous
research training. Up to one of the research years may also be credited to
fulfill the individual's specialty requirements. It is preferred that the two
years of research be sequential.

The Postgraduate Program Director is available for ongoing consultation and
will meet with each resident regularly.  The Resident body meets with the
Program Director monthly as a group to discuss their program and address any
concerns that might relate to their training.

Detailed information regarding RCPSC Specialty Training Requirements can be
found at: [https://www.royalcollege.ca/en/standards-and-
accreditation/information-by-discipline?specialty=royal-
college%3Aibd%2Fspecialty%2Fpsychiatry&subspecialty=&special-program=&afc-
diploma=](https://www.royalcollege.ca/en/standards-and-
accreditation/information-by-discipline?specialty=royal-
college%3Aibd%2Fspecialty%2Fpsychiatry&subspecialty=&special-program=&afc-
diploma=)

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

**Kingston Health Sciences Centre** \- Hotel Dieu Hospital and Kingston
General Hospital sites are two acute care facilities that provide training
opportunities for psychiatry residents in general adult psychiatry and child
and youth psychiatry. **Providence  Care Hospital** is a chronic care
inpatient/outpatient training site with treatment in rehabilitation medicine
as well as psychiatric rehabilitation, geriatric psychiatry, forensic
psychiatry, personality disorders and mood disorders. A wide variety of
experiences are available in both inpatient and outpatient psychiatry,
consultation-liaison psychiatry, emergency/urgent care psychiatry, and
specialty clinics for psychotic, anxiety, mood and eating disorders.

Community psychiatry training placements are available with Family Health
Teams, at Queen's Student Health and Community Mental Health Services.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27150?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27150