#  Queen’s University - General Surgery - Kingston

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on February 19, 2025

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 5

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Sarah Jones  

Address Surgery  
Kingston General Hospital, Watkins 3A  
76 Stuart Street  
Kingston , Ontario, K7L 2V7  

Work  (613) 549-6666 ext 6590

Fax

Websites of Interest [ General Surgery Residency
](https://surgery.queensu.ca/postgraduate/general-surgery)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Sarah Jones

Title: Program Director

  

Name: Sierra Slegtenhorst

Title: Postgraduate Program Coordinator

Email: Sierra.Slegtenhorst@KingstonHSC.ca

Phone: 613-549-6666 ext. 6590

  

* * *

# Important Information

Thank you for considering applying to the Queen's University General Surgery
Residency Program.  We appreciate your interest and welcome any questions.
Please contact our [Program Director](mailto:sarah.jones@kingstonhsc.ca) and
also take a moment to review our
[website](https://surgery.queensu.ca/postgraduate/general-surgery).

The Queen's General Surgery program is focused on and designed to foster
clinical and academic excellence in all our residents.  The role of the
program is twofold:  to provide the appropriate clinical and academic
opportunities to achieve excellence and to mentor each individual resident
through their own path to success.  Our program begins and ends with the
success of our residents.

To achieve these goals, the Queen's General Surgery Residency provides a broad
and comprehensive training experience.  We provide elective planning to ensure
that individual resident goals are achieved.  Academic and research plans
(including the Clinical Investigator's Program) are strongly supported and
begin development in the first year of the residency.  In our current resident
cohort, 25% have or will complete a graduate degree during their training.
The educational infrastructure provides the support and mentoring necessary
for excellence. We currently offer general surgery rotations at Lakeridge
Health in Oshawa, Ontario, and are collaborating with other community
hospitals. Trauma experience has also been expanded by a new collaboration
with St. Michael's Hospital in Toronto.

Queen's is committed to fostering a collegial culture grounded in diversity
and inclusiveness. The program encourages applications from Indigenous
persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women, persons of a
minority sexual orientation and/or gender identity, and all candidates who
would contribute to the diversity of our community. Applicants are invited to
complete the CaRMS self-identification questionnaire (CSIQ).  Completion of
the CSIQ is voluntary. While the goal of the diversity data is to address
historical barriers, the decisions making process will also be informed by
applicant’s academic merit. Any self-identification questionnaires received
will be reviewed as part of our file review process and used as an aid for
file reviewers in selecting a diverse group of candidates for interviews.
Information received may also be used by the program to adjust final rankings,
at the discretion of the selection committee, to address issues of program
priority and diversity. The program has included a member of the Faculty of
Health Sciences EDIIA program at all decision points in the process of
resident selection to ensure the principles of diversity and inclusiveness are
respected.

Thank you again for your interest and look forward to meeting you at one of
our virtual socials or your CaRMS interview!

**EDIIA Institutional Statement:**

The goal of resident selection is to identify trainees likely to succeed both
in training and, once out in practice, in meeting the health care needs of
patients and Canadian society.  We know that having a physician workforce that
reflects the demographics of the patients that they serve improves health care
outcomes.  There are many populations within Canada under-represented in
medicine (UIM) with a paucity of health care practitioners who are Black,
Indigenous, Persons of Colour, 2SLGBTQ+, from lower socioeconomic backgrounds
and/or with disabilities, and other under-represented in medicine (UIM)
groups. Diversity within training programs has also been shown to improve
training environments.  Queen’s University PGME is strongly committed to
diversity and inclusion within its community for these reasons as well as
being part of the solution to address historic and contemporary inequities.

**Equity and diversity**

We welcome diversity among our trainees and seek to foster an environment that
is welcoming to all, regardless of gender identity, race, religion, or sexual
orientation.

We are committed to advancing equitable and inclusive practices.  Please refer
to the [PGME website](https://meds.queensu.ca/academics/postgraduate/faculty-
staff/applicant-selection) for additional information / resources including
[QHS EDIIA Initiatives](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi) and [EDIIA
statements](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi/accessibility-
statements) (Indigenous Land Acknowledgement, Anti-Discrimination Statement,
Inclusion Statement, and Statement on Social Accountability)

**Electives**

We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has previously impacted candidates’
opportunities to arrange and complete electives while also acknowledging that
we are now welcoming elective students. Please review our
[website](https://surgery.queensu.ca/postgraduate/electives) for further
information about visiting electives. If you complete an elective with us,
please contact our Program Director, Dr. Sarah Jones, to request a meeting
before the end of your elective.

COVID-19 vaccination requirements:

Please refer to the 'Restrictions' section of the [Ontario eligibility
criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/) for messaging regarding COVID-19 vaccination requirements.

**Gaps in Training, Remediation, or Professionalism issues**

Please address any gaps in training, remediation, or professionalism issues in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count. Failure to provide this explanation may impact the review
of your application.

* * *

# Return of Service

**For CMGs:  **

If you have a ROS agreement in another province please ensure you aware of the
commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Program application language: English

Optional CSIQ: Applicants are invited to complete the CaRMS self-
identification questionnaire (CSIQ).  Completion of the CSIQ is voluntary.
The collected data will inform reviewers interview selection and matching
process.   While the goal of the diversity data is to address historical
barriers, the decisions making process will also be informed by applicant’s
academic merit.  

Please note that due to the volume of applications our program receives we are
not able to provide individual feedback to applicants who are not successful
in the match.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

If possible, one or more reference letters from a faculty member from General
Surgery is strongly advised, but not required. References should be able to
attest to interest and proficiency in General Surgery as well as comment on
interpersonal skills.

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Please provide a CV that provides a clear and concise record of education,
electives, research experience (provide a brief description, maximum of 2
sentences, of the role that you played in the research) and other interests.
Please ensure that events are listed chronologically.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

When writing your personal letter we ask that you include the following
information:

  1. Why have you decided to pursue General Surgery as a career choice?
  2. Describe how your lived experiences (e.g. first generation, family status) may have impacted the perceived strengths and/or weaknesses of your application.
  3. Demonstrate that you have an understanding as to what it takes to be a resident in General Surgery, as well as a Surgeon.
  4. Why have you chosen to apply to the Queen's General Surgery Residency Training program?

Maximum 1000 word count

Please address any gaps in training, remediation, or professionalism issues in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count. Failure to provide this explanation may impact the review
of your application.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Abstract/Publications

Please provide a list of publications. Abstracts are required for your three
most recent publications.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Documents that are not in English must be accompanied by a notarized
translation. Students applying in the last year of medical school will need to
submit their most recent marks/transcripts, and will need to provide proof of
their MD to CPSO prior to the start of residency training.

Optional - will be reviewed

Self-identification questionnaire

Applicants are invited to complete the CaRMS self-identification questionnaire
(CSIQ).  Completion of the CSIQ is voluntary.  The collected data will inform
reviewers interview selection and matching process.   While the goal of the
diversity data is to address historical barriers, the decisions making process
will also be informed by applicant’s academic merit.  

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All of the complete applications received by the deadline date will be
reviewed by a group consisting of either one faculty member and two residents
or two faculty members and one resident. Applicants will then be ranked based
on overall academic performance, reference letters, research experience and
interest in Queen's general surgery. Considerations will also include diverse
lived experiences and perspectives. Any self-identification questionnaires
received will be reviewed as part of our file review process and used as an
aid for file reviewers in selecting a diverse group of candidates for
interviews. The Queen's Faculty of Health Sciences EDIIA Program will be
involved in the file review process. The top ranked applicants will be
selected for an interview.  

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Virtual interviews will occur throughout
the day on Monday, January 20, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Each candidate will have three
interviews; one with the Program Director and/or Assistant Program Director,
one with two residents and one interview with two attending faculty. Queen's
Faculty of Health Sciences EDIIA Program is involved in the interview process
to minimize biases. Each interview will be comprised of standardized questions
applicable to each interview station.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The Queen's General Surgery Residency Program is looking for wellrounded
applicants with an academic record that shows an interest in General Surgery.
References should be able to attest to interest and proficiency in the
specialty, cognitive and manual skills, ability for self-directed learning,
time management and teamwork; as well as comment on interpersonal skills.
Research productivity during medical school including research projects,
presentations and publications will also be considered.

Information provided by the self-identification questionnaires may be used by
the program to adjust final rankings, at the discretion of the selection
committee, to address issues of program priority and diversity. The program
has included a member of the Faculty of Health Sciences EDIIA Program at this
stage of the process of resident selection to ensure the principles of
diversity and inclusiveness are respected.

## Program goals

The Queen's General Surgery training program is focused and designed to foster
clinical and academic excellence in all our residents. The role of the program
is twofold: to provide the appropriate clinical and academic opportunities to
achieve excellence and to mentor each individual resident through their own
path to success.

Our program is strong, characterized by close working relationships between
residents and attending faculty, which is built over repeated exposures on
each clinical teaching unit throughout their five year residency. This
exposure allows for appropriate graded responsibilities as the resident
develops strong clinical decision making and proficient technical skills. The
program uses a combination of simulation and innovative feedback techniques to
improve learning.

## Selection process goals

We receive approximately 120 applications, of which approximately 40-60
applicants will be offered an interview.

The Queen's General Surgery Residency Program is looking for residents who are
independently motivated and dedicated team players. Successful candidates will
also have strong interpersonal and problem-solving skills, an equitable
patient-centred approach to care, as well as high ethical and professional
standards.

For those who are invited to attend an interview, the file review score and
interview score are produced independently of each other. Once interviews have
been completed the interview committee will meet to discuss each applicant and
begin assembling a final rank order. The final rank list is completed at the
end of this meeting. Only information obtained through review of application
files and the interview process, including the optional CSIQ, will be used in
decision-making. A member of the Faculty of Health Sciences EDIIA program is
involved at all decision points in the process of resident selection to ensure
the  principles of diversity and inclusiveness are respected.

## File review process

Review team composition : All of the complete applications received by the
deadline date will be broken up into groups of 8-10 based on alphabetical
order. Each group will consist of three reviewers; either one faculty member
and two residents or two faulty members and one resident.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Organized and professional review of pertinent accomplishments   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Evidence of interest in General Surgery   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Activities contributing to a well rounded individual   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership contributions   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Performance in all CanMeds domains   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Insight into General Surgery and one's self. Interest in Queen's program and Kingston. Describe how lived experiences may have impacted the perceived strengths and/or weaknesses of your application. Please address any gaps in training, remediation, or professionalism issues in your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your maximum word count. Failure to provide this explanation may impact the review of your application.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Personal and professional qualities of a successful General Surgery resident   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research history, publication/presentation   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
Other file component(s) |  Applicants are invited to complete the CaRMS self-identification questionnaire (CSIQ). Completion of the CSIQ is voluntary. The collected data will inform reviewers interview selection and matching process. While the goal of the diversity data is to address historical barriers, the decisions making process will also be informed by applicant’s academic merit.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We prefer applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

An acceptable academic record which demonstrates special proficiency in those
subjects related to our specialty.

References should be able to attest to interest and proficiency in General
Surgery as well as comment on interpersonal skills.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Communication style, evidence of skills necessary to work effectively with others   
Collegiality |  Able to contribute and cooperate with colleagues with shared responsibility   
Communication skills |  Style and clarity, effective and efficient   
Health advocacy |  Evidence of involvement in advocating for patients or community health issues   
Interest in the discipline |  Discussion of reasons for choosing general surgery   
Interest in the program |  Knowledge of, reasons for interest in, personal ties to program/city   
Leadership skills |  Evidence of leadership and teaching experience/roles   
Professionalism |  Communication and etiquette, social awareness, high personal standards of behaviour   
Scholarly activities |  Academic history and performance, research and teaching experience and interest   
Other interview component(s) |  The Queen's Faculty of Health Sciences EDIIA Program is involved in the interview process to minimize biases. The interview process will take into consideration the need for diverse lived experiences and perspectives.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Queen's General Surgery Residency Program is a strong, cohesive program
that emphasizes clinical and academic excellence in all our residents.
Graduates are well prepared either for community General Surgery or further
fellowship training.

To further facilitate pursuit of an academic career the program now offers the
opportunity to apply to the Queen's Clinical Investigator Program. This CIP
program allows a resident to obtain a Masters or PhD during their General
Surgery residency. Furthermore, residents often take a 1-2 leave of absence
from the program to pursue higher education at other institutions including
Harvard, Oxford and the London School of Tropical Medicine. Amongst the
current resident cohort, 25% are pursuing graduate degrees.

In response to resident feedback, our program has moved to a night float
system in order to allow for more of a work/life balance. This eliminates post
call days when running elective services as a senior resident. The night float
resident spits each block with another resident on the Acute Care Service,
such that the residents are on the Acute Care Service for 2 weeks followed by
2 weeks of night float. The program has recently developed an Endoscopy
specific rotation (starting in the PGY1 year) that consists of both simulation
and clinical training.

Residents also spend time in Oshawa (Lakeridge Health) as a community
experience as well as Colorectal and Acute Care. We also collaborate with
other community hospitals. Trauma experience has also been expanded by a new
collaboration with St. Michael's Hospital in Toronto.



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The General Surgery residency program accepts 4-5 residents per year from the
PGY1 CaRMS match into a planned five-year program. This is a small to mid size
cohesive program that emphasizes a sound academic approach to General Surgery.
Sub-specialty exposure is appropriate to a quality general surgical education.
Rotations are organized as four week "blocks" with thirteen blocks per year.
Graduates are well prepared either for community general surgery or further
sub-specialty academic training if desiring an academic career. Repeated and
close exposure to staff at all levels of training facilitates a good working
relationship between residents and faculty.

General Surgery rotations are divided amongst 6 clinical teaching units (CTU1:
Colorectal, CTU 2: Hepatobiliary, CTU3: Oncology and Pediatric Surgery, CTU 4:
Acute Care Surgery, CTU5: Surgical Endoscopy, CTU 6: Foregut and Bariatric
Surgery).

The program is designed around a specific template that ensures that all
residents have equal exposure to sub-specialties of General Surgery. The
template is designed around stage of training and not specific PGY year.

**Transition to Discipline (PGY1, 3 months)**

The first two weeks of PGY 1 are a surgical foundations bootcamp whereby
residents are given a mix of didactic lectures and skills labs to facilitate a
smooth transition to residency. PGY 1 residents are not assigned overnight
call for the first two weeks of their residency.

After bootcamp, residents continue to have weekly Surgical Foundations
protected academic time every Wednesday afternoon. The Surgical Foundations
program (PGY 1 and 2 years) includes residents from general surgery,
orthopedic surgery, urology and OB/GYN. It consists of a small group of
residents, making for a close working relationship.

For the first 3 months of PGY1, we have all our new residents assigned to our
various General Surgery CTU Teams. During this time, residents also complete
their ATLS training. General surgery rotations for all years are divided
amongst 5 clinical teaching units; CTU 1:  Colorectal, CTU 2: Hepatobiliary,
CTU 3: Oncology and Pediatric Surgery, CTU 4: Acute Care Surgery, CTU 6:
Foregut and Bariatric Surgery.

#### **Surgical Foundations (PGY 1 to PGY 2-3, 18-24 months)**

Over PGY 1 and 2, residents will have the following blocks in no particular
order; two blocks of vascular surgery, two blocks of ICU, two blocks of
endoscopy, two blocks of thoracics, one block of ER, one block of plastic
surgery and a split bock between anesthesia and radiology. _The remaining
blocks are General Surgery blocks, with two blocks completed at the Oshawa
Lakeridge health site.  _

PGY 2 residents complete their Surgical Foundations exam in the fall. They are
given one week of additional educational leave to facilitate studying and are
exempt from call the 10 days before their exam.

About halfway through PGY 2, residents are transitioned into the senior
resident role while on call as they are integrated into the night float
system.  Because of the small-medium program size, residents enjoy a
significant amount of patient responsibility, care experience, and operative
experience very early in their residency, tailored to the strengths of each
residents.

#### **Core of Discipline & Transition to Practice (PGY 3-5, Remainder of
Residency)**

During the PGY 3 year, residents will spend time in gastroenterology (one
block), as well as general surgery (12 blocks, Kingston). Most residents also
enjoy a community surgical experience in Napanee, which is 40min outside of
Kingston, in either PGY 3 or PGY 4.

The PGY 4 year includes three or four elective blocks depending on the
individual resident’s circumstances and interests, seven general surgery
blocks in Kingston, and a one block trauma rotation at St. Michael’s hospital
in Toronto.

The PGY 5 year is split between the CTU services on general surgery, once
again tailored to each specific resident to allow for EPA completion. During
the PGY 5 years, residents also participate in senior clinics and senior ORs
where they are expected to run the clinic and ORs independently with minimal
staff intervention, to simulate a day in their independent practice.

**Research**

Resident research is an expected component of residency training at Queen's
University. One half-day per week can be taken off from clinical
responsibilities for work on research projects. Half days can be saved to
create one or two week blocks dedicated to research work. Elective times can
be scheduled for work on research projects. Residents will be expected to give
an update on their research projects, several times per year, during the
Wednesday morning academic half day, to the rest of the Division. Research
projects are presented at the annual Department of Surgery Resident Research
Day. There is a research curriculum that is integrated into the Surgical
Foundations academic time. This course covers the fundamentals of clinical
research and also provides the resident with direct supervision for a
systematic review and other such methodology.

**Academic Curriculum**  

On Wednesday's, there is dedicated academic time for General Surgery,
consisting of a 4 hour block in the morning.  There are no elective clinics or
endoscopy Wednesday morning's to minimize conflicts. All General Surgery
residents on-service and all general surgeons (not on-call) are expected to
attend the academic program.

**The academic schedule includes a combination of:**

Interesting Cases presented by the resident staff

General Surgery Resident teaching presented by the resident staff  

Professor Rounds presented by the attending staff

Continuous Quality Improvement (CQI) Rounds

Resident research updates

Trauma Rounds occur once per month on a Wednesday morning

Quarterly Mock oral and written exams

Laparoscopic/Endoscopic and technical skills occur in Simulation Labs

Open and Laparoscopic sills labs twice per year

Journal Club throughout the year in the evening.  This is a social gathering
as well as the opportunity to teach critical appraisal.

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

Kingston Health Sciences Centre (Both in-patient and ambulatory care centre)

Intensive Care Unit at KHSC Kingston General Hospital site

Lakeridge Health (Oshawa General Hospital)

Electronic resources include resident office/library with internet access, and
references via Queen's library.

Simulation and Surgical Skills Lab, Queen's Medical School Building

There are opportunities to take interprovincial and international electives
while training in our program, but they must be self-funded.

Residents rotate through the Oshawa site repeatedly during their training.

There are no mandatory rural rotations.



* * *

# Additional Information

Interviews are by invitation.

If you complete an elective with us, please contact our Program Director, Dr.
Sarah Jones, to request a meeting before the end of your elective.



* * *

# FAQ

Where can I learn more about the Queen's University General Surgery program?

1\. Meet with our Program Director, Dr. Sarah Jones (in person or virtually)

2\. Our [website](https://surgery.queensu.ca/postgraduate/general-surgery)

3\. Our [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/queensgeneralsurgery/)

4\. Our [Twitter](https://x.com/QueensGenSurg)

5\. Our Program Coordinator for any further questions

6\. Attend our CaRMS social and meet & greet events - see [CANPREPP
website](https://canprepp.ca/) for more details.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26372?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26372