#  University of British Columbia - Anesthesiology - Vancouver  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 20, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 20

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Christopher Nixon-Giles  
Dr. Zoe Brown  

Address Anesthesiology, Pharmacology & Therapeutics  
11219 - DHCC 2775 Laurel Street  
Vancouver, British Columbia, V5Z 1M9  

Work  (604) 875-4111 Local 23026

Fax  Fax: (604) 875-3656

Websites of Interest [ Web Site ](http://www.apt.ubc.ca)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Zoe Brown

Title: Program Director

Email: zoe.brown@ubc.ca

  

Name: Dr. Christopher Nixon-Giles

Title: Associate Program Director

Email: christopher.nixon-giles@ubc.ca

  

Name: Jay Park

Title: Program Manager

Email: anae.residency@ubc.ca

  
  
  

* * *

# Important Information

The selection committee consists of a selection committee chair (Associate
Program Director), a number of faculty from hospitals throughout the
province,, the Program Director, Chair of the university department, and
several anesthesia residents from different postgraduate training years.

Selection committee members are not permitted to serve as **referees** for the
UBC Anesthesiology application process, but they may serve as **referees** for
other programs.

Applicants are encouraged to ask if potential references are on the UBC
Anesthesiology CaRMS Selection Committee before seeking a reference letter.

At UBC, the PGY-1 year is a rotating internship with most of the time spent at
one of three hospital sites. Applicants must be happy to spend their PGY-1
year at any of theses three training sites. They are St. Paul's Hospital in
Vancouver,, Royal Columbian Hospital in New Westminster, and the Greater
Victoria Hospitals on Vancouver Island.  The anesthesia program is allocated
places at each of these training sites and an internal match is conducted.
The outcome of this training site mini-match is available after the first
iteration of the CaRMS match. It is not always possible to allocate the first
choice to everyone. The university does not take into account any special
circumstances for allocation to training sites. Each of these sites serves a
unique patient population and has a wealth of educational experience.

**Statement on Equity, Diversity, and Inclusiveness**

The Department of Anesthesiology, Pharmacology, and Therapeutics at the
University of British Columbia is committed to fostering a working and
learning environment that is free of discrimination and prejudice. We are
further committed to ameliorating conditions that would prevent any individual
from joining or engaging with our department, including but not limited to
those of race, ethnicity, orientation, background, or social position.

We strive to be an inclusive community that recognizes that the diversity of
our resident cohort serves as an important factor in promoting the health of
all British Columbians. We aim to actively increase the pluralism and
diversity within our department in order to best represent the communities we
serve.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

University of British Columbia

Anesthesiology

Vancouver

Program Director:   Dr. Zoe Brown

Associate Program Director: Dr. Christopher Nixon-Giles

**Website of Interest:<http://apt.ubc.ca/>**

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

**Three letters of reference are required. One reference letter should be from
an anesthesiologist currently practicing in Canada. If this is not possible,
this should be explained in the applicant's personal letter. Reference letters
from members of the UBC Anesthesiology CaRMS Selection Committee are not
permitted for applications to the UBC Anesthesiology residency program, but
can be used for other programs.**

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

A personal letter is required.

Please tell us about yourself, what has led you to want to pursue a career in
anesthesiology, why you feel you would be a good fit for the UBC
Anesthesiology program, and how you may have demonstrated this in your life
experience to this point. This is purposely open-ended and represents the
major opportunity at the file review stage for you to present yourself as an
individual to us. Your personal letter should be no more than 1000 words.



Custom Résumé / CV

Optional - will be reviewed

Self-identification questionnaire

The Department of Anesthesiology, Pharmacology, and Therapeutics at the
University of British Columbia is committed to fostering a working and
learning environment that is free of discrimination and prejudice. We are
further committed to ameliorating conditions that would prevent any individual
from joining or engaging with our department, including but not limited to
those of race, ethnicity, orientation, background, or social position.

We strive to be an inclusive community that recognizes that the diversity of
our resident cohort serves as an important factor in promoting the health of
all British Columbians. We aim to actively increase the pluralism and
diversity within our department in order to best represent the communities we
serve.

Candidates are **not** required to submit the CaRMS Self-Identification
questionnaire, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so, the
information received would **only be used to advantage** those who would
contribute to the diversity of our community.

Any self-identification questionnaires received will be reviewed as part of
our file review process and used as an aid for file reviewers in selecting a
diverse group of candidates for interviews. Information received may also be
used by the program to adjust final rankings, at the discretion of the
selection committee, to address issues of program priority and diversity.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Each applicant will be reviewed by the selection committee. Invitations for
interview will be sent out by email and will be posted on the CaRMS website in
early January 2025.

The interview dates have been set for Tuesday February 4th and Wednesday
February 5th, 2025.



* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 4, 2025
  * February 5, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: The interview dates have been scheduled for
Tuesday February 4th and Wednesday February 5th, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The Department of Anesthesiology,
Pharmacology and Therapeutics will be scheduling interviews for selected
candidates. Interviews will be virtual and will include a 50 minute interview
by a panel of interviewers. The questions will put you in challenging
situations, test your decision making, critical thinking, and judgment, and
attempt to elucidate your emotional intelligence and communication skills.
There may also be questions based on information in your application. For
example, you may be asked to describe and relate to events that have occurred
in your medical training and elsewhere in your life. In particular, the panel
will be interested in how you responded and what your thoughts are about the
incident and your reaction to it. If time allows, candidates may ask questions
of their interviewers at the end of the formal interview.  
  
In addition, candidates will be scheduled to have a virtual meeting with the
Program Director. Some current residents will also be available in breakout
rooms to answer questions candidates may have about the program. All
information from the application and interviews, along with the rest of the
information in the application is confidential, consistent with the rules from
CaRMS.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

All applicants are advised that the College of Physicians and Surgeons of BC
requires disclosure of blood borne communicable infection. For further
details, please consult the Postgraduate Medical Education Website at
http://www.med.ubc.ca - click "education", then "MD Postgraduate Programs",
then "Policies" to review the "PGME policy on Blood Borne Infections".

## Program goals

**The University of British Columbia Anesthesiology Residency Training Program
is committed to fostering and building the Anesthesiology leaders of tomorrow
with a forward-looking approach to the exceptional perioperative care of our
patients. Candidates should have an aptitude for interprofessional team work,
good technical skills, a practical ability to handle electronic and mechanical
equipment, and an ability to work calmly in emergency clinical situations.
They will also represent the vibrant and diverse nature of the population of
British Columbia that we are privileged to serve. Successful candidates will
have demonstrated above average performance in their academics, a commitment
to scholarly pursuits including research and/or educational projects, and
continued leadership in extra-curricular activities.**

## Selection process goals

Identify applicants who have demonstrated the attributes specified in the
CanMEDS roles.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated the ability to excel in complex team
environments, making the team constantly stronger through their participation.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated commitment to building a strong
community with their colleagues.

Identify applicants' interest in anesthesiology, and those who will develop
into exceptional anesthesiologists.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated academic success and aptitude for
clinical inquiry, research, and quality improvement.

## File review process

Review team composition : 1. Committee Chair (Associate Program Director)  
2\. Residency Training Program Director  
3\. Faculty and resident representatives representing various academic
interests, training sites, and personal and professional experience

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Academic Potential, Professionalism, Scholarly activities   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Interest and Knowledge of Anesthesiology, Perceived suitability to the specialty   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Well roundedness   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership Potential, Communication Skills   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Professionalism, Communication Skills   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest and Knowledge of Anesthesiology, Resilience, Perceived suitability to the specialty, Contribution to the diversity and inclusiveness of our program   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Perceived suitability to the specialty, Academic potential   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Scholarly activities   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Professionalism, Academic potential   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives
at UBC-affiliated hospitals

Other information regarding elective requirement:

**We ask that applicants have one elective in anesthesia. This does not need
to be completed at UBC, since the demand for electives in anesthesia at UBC is
much greater than the supply. It can be done at a teaching or a non-teaching
hospital. We do not require multiple electives in anesthesia, and in fact,
would look favorably upon applicants who have completed a broad range of
electives. If an applicant has not completed an elective in anesthesiology,
this should be explained in their personal letter.**

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due
to weather, technology failure or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Candidate demonstrates ability to work well in a team based environment.   
Collegiality |  Candidate exemplifies qualities valued in a colleague.   
Communication skills |  Candidate is able to clearly articulate his/her/their views.   
Health advocacy |  Candidate demonstrates consistent professionalism   
Interest in the discipline |  Candidate demonstrates interest and knowledge of anesthesia.   
Interest in the program |  Candidate demonstrates knowledge and suitability for the UBC program.   
Leadership skills |  Candidate demonstrates potential for leadership.   
Professionalism |  Candidate demonstrates consistent professionalism   
Scholarly activities |  Candidate demonstrates an interest in and commitment to scholarly activities.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

For the 2024-2025 academic year, we have 96 FRCPC residents and 5 FPA
residents with approximately 250 faculty.

There is a requirement for certain rotations to be completed at hospital sites
outside of the metropolitan Vancouver area..  Travel to and from an out of
town site, as well as accommodation, is provided by the university.

There are opportunities for external electives, both within Canada and
internationally. The maximum time allowed outside the program is six blocks,
subject to prior approval by the program.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Anesthesia is a dynamic, rapidly evolving, hands-on specialty that works
with all medical, surgical and critical care fields. Vancouver is the major
referral centre for the province of British Columbia; training here offers
superb clinical opportunities and education from over 250 anesthesia
faculty.**

Year 1

The PGY-1 year encompasses the Transition to Discipline phase and part of the
Foundations phase of training. During this year residents will be based at one
of three well established rotating internship programs. They are: St. Paul's
Hospital, in downtown Vancouver;  Royal Columbian Hospital, in New
Westminster, a suburb of Vancouver; and the Greater Victoria Hospitals, on
Vancouver Island. This first training year is shared with PGY-1  residents
from other residency programs with the intention of fostering an excellent
general clinical experience.

A mini-match is conducted by the UBC Postgraduate Dean's Office as soon as
possible after the first iteration of the CaRMS match.  Residents are asked to
rank their preferred location, but may be placed at any of these three sites..

The information on each of the three PGY1 sites is on the Postgraduate website
at [http://postgrad.med.ubc.ca/prospective-trainees/training-
programs/](http://postgrad.med.ubc.ca/prospective-trainees/training-programs/)

ACLS is a prerequisite for joining the program, while the Neonatal
Resuscitation Providers Course and the Fundamentals of Critical Care Support
Course are provided during the first year. PGY-1 residents are exempt from
clinical duty and expected to attend one full anesthesiology academic day each
month from September through May. Each PGY-1 training site has its own weekly
academic half-day program that residents will also be expected to attend.

There are several endorsed social events held throughout the year, including
the welcome BBQ in July, a winter retreat in December, an academic department
Christmas party, and a summer retreat in June. There are also multiple
informal social events throughout the year, both for residents only, and for
residents and faculty, which provide an opportunity to foster collegiality and
community.

**Years 2-5**

**The remaining training years include the remainder of the Foundations phase,
as well as all of the Core, and Transition to Practice phases. This part of
training is consists of 4-week blocks in clinical anesthesia, including the
anesthesia subspecialties of regional anesthesia, pediatric anesthesia,
obstetrical anesthesia, neuroanesthesia, vascular anesthesia, cardiac
anesthesia, thoracic anesthesia, and acute and chronic pain. There are a
number of off-service rotations which must also be completed, mostly internal
medicine training experiences including respiratory, cardiology, cardiac care
unit, nephrology, transfusion medicine, and both pediatric and adult ICU.
These rotations are based mostly in metropolitan Vancouver. There are several
required rotations to be completed elsewhere in the province, with opportunity
for more if so desired by a resident. Up to six blocks of elective time can be
taken during the final two years.**

Research

The UBC Department of Anesthesiology, Pharmacology and Therapeutics attracts
approximately $1 million annually in research grants. Active areas of research
include but are not limited to central mechanisms of anesthesia, prevention of
reperfusion injury, anesthesia for ambulatory surgery, clinical monitoring,
pharmacology of local anesthetics, regional anesthesia and management, and
advancements in obstetric and pediatric anesthesia.

Anesthesia residents will be expected to participate in one scholarly project
during their residency, in conjunction with a faculty member. This project is
to be presented at the annual residents' research competition. Residents
interested in research are encouraged to participate in the basic science and
clinical investigations occurring at many of our hospital sites. Protected
time commensurate with the scope of the research project will be provided, as
determined between the residents and supervising faculty, and with approval
from the program.

In addition, residents have the opportunity to apply for the two-year Clinical
Investigator Program during their residency. Applicants at the time of
interview may be asked if they have an interest in the CIP or having research
as a significant component of their training and career.

Seminars

A Transition to Discipline bootcamp will be scheduled early in the PGY-1 year,
where more senior residents will lead a curriculum to immerse new residents in
the specialty, provide some early mentorship, and set expectations for what we
feel makes a good anesthesiology resident.. A full one day per week academic
program runs throughout the academic year from September to April. During the
academic day residents are excused from clinical duties. Monthly journal clubs
take place from September to May.

Evaluations and EPAs (Entrustable Professional Activities) are completed
regularly by supervisors, and are reviewed both by the local site coordinator
as well as the Competency Committee. Residents meet with the program director
or associate program director semi-annually. Formative exams occur throughout
the training years, specifically the AKT in-training standardized exams.
Formative oral exams are scheduled twice a year starting at the end of PGY-1.
There is simulation training, facilitated by anesthesia faculty, throughout
the training program, including training in basic and advanced anesthetic
emergencies, multidisciplinary team training, management of obstetrical and
pediatric crisis in anesthesia, and airway management. The program organizes a
number of externally run life support training courses. A Trauma course,
Pediatric ALS, and Neonatal ALS courses will be provided during residency.
(ACLS is a prerequisite to the PGY-1 year.) In addition, the Fundamentals of
Critical Care Support (FCCS) course is offered to PGY-1 residents. Final year
residents are funded to take the ACLS for anesthesia update course. Residents
preparing for the Royal College exam participate in a weekly faculty led
seminar series to ensure that they have a consultant-level knowledge base and
cognitive approach to clinical scenarios.

Videoconferencing is available at most rotation sites.

* * *

# Training Sites

PGY-1 is completed at one of three home hospital sites: Royal Columbian
Hospital (New Westminster, BC), St. Paul's Hospital (Vancouver ,BC), and Royal
Jubilee and Victoria General Hospitals (Victoria, BC). The remaining training
years are completed at a number of hospitals including Vancouver General
Hospital, St. Paul's Hospital, Royal Columbian Hospital, BC Childrens'
Hospital, BC Womens' Hospital, Surrey Memorial Hospital, Lion's Gate Hospital,
Nanaimo Regional General Hospital, University Hospital of Northern BC,
Victoria General Hospital, and Royal Inland Hospital (Kamloops, BC).

In addition, other hospitals within BC may be utilized for electives.

There are opportunities for external electives. The maximum allowed outside of
program is 6 rotation blocks, subject to prior approval by the program.

There is a requirement for community anesthesiology experience outside of the
lower mainland. Travel to and from the out of town sites and accommodation is
provided by the university.



* * *

# FAQ

**What qualities do you look for in an applicant?**

The program does not spell this out to applicants. Instead, applicants are
encouraged to spend some time in the field to understand what qualities are
important for a successful anesthesiologist. Applicants are then asked to
reflect on their own qualities, and then to compare the two to determine if
this is a "good fit". This is to ensure that applicants have made an informed
decision regarding their career path. A broad range of electives is felt to be
important as a part of this process. If for some reason an applicant does not
have an elective in anesthesia, an explanation should be included in the
personal letter.

**Do you accept applications or documents after File Review begins?**

No. This is to ensure sufficient time for selection committee members to
thoroughly review all applications within the given time frame.

**When will I be notified if I am offered an interview?**

In order to allow sufficient time for the selection committee to review all
applications, invitations for interview will be sent out sometime in early
January 2025. All applicants will be notified by email and on the CaRMS web
portal, both those invited for interviews and those who are not.

**Why was I not offered an interview?**

CaRMS is a very competitive process. We receive approximately 190 applications
for 20 CaRMS positions. The majority of these applications are high in
quality. Many of the applicants will make excellent anesthesiology residents
and, in the future, excellent anesthesiologists. At UBC we do not interview as
widely as some other programs so that our efforts can be focused on assessing
those candidates we do choose to interview.

Many applicants have asked us for feedback on their particular application.
However, the selection committee is bound by rules we have established that
all discussions about candidates are to remain strictly confidential, even to
the candidates themselves. All we do is provide you with the following general
comments.

The committee looks at predetermined criteria for all applicants. Each
applicant is reviewed in detail by a subset of the committee prior to a
meeting of the entire committee to review all the applicants and generate a
list of those we wish to interview. The committee is comfortable that we have
a robust process that treats each applicant fairly. While we cannot divulge
the particulars of individual applications, we can say that most of the
applicants who do not train in our program, because of either not being
interviewed or not being matched to our program after an interview, turn out
to be successful anesthesia residents and anesthesiologists.

**I still think I would make a good anesthesia resident and ultimately a good
anesthesiologist.**

Historical statistics from CaRMS indicate that if applicants ranked anesthesia
in their first three choices, they would have more than an 80% chance of being
successful at matching to an anesthesia residency, albeit not necessarily at
their first choice of location. In our opinion, there are more similarities
than differences between all anesthesia training programs in Canada. All
anesthesia program directors meet twice a year to discuss topics of mutual
interest, and there is an overwhelming sense of collaboration and sharing of
ideas, resulting in a high quality of training in anesthesia nationally
regardless of the site. So the odds are in your favour if you are intent on
entering an anesthesia residency program, this is within your means, and you
will be matched to an anesthesia training program of high calibre.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27444?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27444