#  McMaster University - Urology - Hamilton

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Shahid Lambe  

Address Urology  
St. Joseph's Healthcare  
50 Charlton Avenue East  
Hamilton , Ontario, L8N 4A6  

Work  (905) 522-1155, ext. 34988

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Department of Surgery ](http://surgery.mcmaster.ca)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Lauren Douglas

Title: Program Administrator

Email: ldougla@mcmaster.ca

Phone: 905-522-1155 ext 33380

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/).  It is important to review the
requirements carefully.

Information regarding Competency Based Medical Education (CBME) can be viewed
at: [McMaster CBME](https://cbmepg.mcmaster.ca/ "McMaster CBME")

To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit:
<https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/>

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Maximum of 3 letters are required.  



Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

Please include undergraduate school transcripts.

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Reference letters from the institution/ discipline will not be required for
consideration of interview.

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: All interviews will be conducted prior to
the end of the  National Interview period. Candidates will be notified via
e-mail from the program if an interview has been granted and applicants will
be notified directly regarding the date/time of the virutal interview.
Currently the date is TBD  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process:  Program will notify all applicants
through CaRMS Online and will send e-mail invitations directly to applicants
selected for an interview.  
  
At the Urology Fair, all candidates will be interviewed over the course of two
days. Individual interviews will be conducted by two or three faculty members
and two urology residents for 20 minutes.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates will be graded on the content of their letter of application; the
strength of thier references; the academic record; and the demonstration of
their interest in our surgical training program when interviewed.

The CaRMS Selection Committee for the Division of Urology at McMaster
University, Division of Urology:



Dr. Shahid Lambe, Program Director

Dr. Piotr Zareba, Associate Program Director

Dr. Laura Nguyen, CTU HHS

Dr. Udi Blankstein, CBME Director

Also, two McMaster Urology Residents

## Program goals

Our mission is to educate and empower the surgeons of tomorrow to include
critical thinking, creativity, professionalism towards life long learning. The
development of these attributes surronds a core of technical training in the
art and science of surgery.

Our residents will demonstrate exceptional interpersonal skills, clinical
skills, and academic excellence. McMaster Urology places significant emphasis
on teamwork.

## Selection process goals

1\. Applicants who have demonstrated the ability to communicate effectivley
and appropriatley with collegues and patients.

2\. Applicants who express interest in urology.

3\. Applicants will have developed skills in the clinical setting.

4\. Applicants who express interest in research.

5\. Applicants who demonstrate attributes of CanMEd roles.

6\. Applicants who demonstrate effective decision making skills.

## File review process

Review team composition : Dr. Shahid Lambe, Program Director  
Dr. Piotr Zareba, Associate Program Director  
Dr. Laura Nguyen, HHS CTU Director  
Dr. Udi Blankstein, CBME Director  
Program Administrator  
Junior and Senior Urology Resident

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  
Varies year to year

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Evidence of Work Experience, Content, Research, Electives, Awards and work-life balance   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Completed electives in urology and/or surgical experiences   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Medical and non medical   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Committee and roles   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstration of interpersonal skills   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in location and program   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Has the required number uploaded   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Demonstrate Interest in future urology projects   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
Other file component(s) |  Reference letters should demonstrate strong communication skills, team player and interested in the field of urology   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

With the recent change in elective time in Canadian Medical Schools we are
understanding that not everyone will have been able to do an elective here at
McMaster University, even if desired.  We understand the difficulties in
obtaining any electives and a lack of electives in Urology will not negatively
impact file review.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence in team work in academics or in the community   
Collegiality |  Evidence of successful group or teamwork   
Communication skills |  Verbal skills   
Health advocacy |  We do not evaluate this during an interview   
Interest in the discipline |  Evidence in urology research and electives   
Interest in the program |  Evidence of knowledge of the city and its surroundings   
Leadership skills |  We do not evaluate during interview   
Professionalism |  Evaluated throughout the interview process ( communication)   
Scholarly activities |  Evidence of academic success   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  Not a proper fit for the program  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

<https://macurology.ca/>

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Residents will advance through graded responsibilities combining care on the
ward, emergency room and clinic with advancing responsiblity in the operating
room. By the PGY5 year the resident will complete even complex operations in
their entirety but with supervision.

By the PGY5 year the resident will complete even complex operations in their
entirety but with supervision.

**PGY 1- 2**

During the first two years, residents will participate in a core surgical
program with all surgical residents at McMaster in preparation for writing the
Principles of Surgery Examination at the end of the PGY2 year.

**PGY3**

This year will focus on the development of endoscopic skills and assessment
and treatment of the urology patient in the emergency department and in the
clinic.

**PGY4**

The elective experience will include an opportunity to work in a community
urology practice or to participate in an elective at national or international
academic centres.

**PGY5**

This year will involve an intense exposure to operative urology as well as
supervision of an in-patient service and administrative responsibilities. The
resident will attend clinics where appropriate in the pre-operative and post-
operative management of surgical patients. He/she will also be responsible for
the teaching of junior house staff.

**Seminars**

There will be an academic half-day each Wednesday 7:30-13:00 which will
incorporate didactic teaching sessions as well as interactive discussion and
skills sessions. Weekly round will occur during this block and it will also be
used for in-training examinations. During the first two years of the program
residents will attend the core surgical lectures to prepare for the Principles
of Surgery Examination. There is a monthly journal club. Chief Rounds occur
weekly from 7am-8am  on fridays. Oncology Pathology Rounds occur weekly on
Tuesdays from 4:30-5:30 at the Juravinski Cancer Centre.

**Research**

Residents will be encouraged to participate in two research projects during
their five year program and to present these at a resident research day. Time
will be set aside to work on these projects and funding is available up to
$1000 per year. Residents who have papers accepted at national and
international meetings will be supported to attend and present their results.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Resources**

The McMaster University Urology Residency Program is based at the three sites
of the Hamilton Health Sciences (Juravinski Hospital, Hamilton General and
McMaster University Medical Centre) and at the main campus of St. Joseph's
Healthcare. Each of these facilities have subspecialty areas including
laparscopy & robotics, endourology, uro-oncology, andrology, pediatrics,
neuro-urology, renal transplantation and general urology. The division of
urology has an active interest in minimally invasive surgery and is linked to
the Centre for Minimal Access at McMaster University. There are eleven faculty
members in the division of urology and the ratio of residents to faculty is
11:4.

A resident training program committee, consisting of five faculty members and
two resident representative will meet monthly  to discuss the development of
the program and to provide feedback to the residents and faculty. Regular in-
training evaluation in the form of meeting with the program director (every 6
months) in-training examinations (oral and written) and meeting with
individual supervisors will provide the resident with timely feedback as to
their performance in the program.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27030?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27030