#  McGill University - General Surgery - Montreal

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Regular Stream for All  

##  Last approved on September 19, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Jean-Sébastien Pelletier  

Address General Surgery  
McGill University Health Centre  
1650 Cedar Ave, Rm L9.424  
Montreal QC , Quebec, H3G 1A4  

Work  514-843-1532

Fax

Websites of Interest [ McGill Post Graduate Medical Education
](http://www.medicine.mcgill.ca/postgrad/)  
[ McGill General Surgery ](http://www.mcgill/ca/generalsurgery)  
[ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/McGillGenSurg)  
[ Instagram ](http://@mcgill_gensurg_residents)  
[ Video ](https://youtu.be/XK7CrWdg4w8)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Rita Piccioni

Title: Sr. Program Administrator

Email: rita.piccioni@muhc.mcgill.ca

Phone: 514-843-1532

  

Name: Julia Cannarsa

Title: Program Administrator

Email: admingensurg.med@mcgill.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

It is very important that the candidate's file be complete for the first stage
of the pre-selection process. No exceptions to this rule will be made.  Review
all instructions carefully. Applications with INCOMPLETE and/or EXTRANEOUS
documents WILL NOT BE REVIEWED.

McGill University's General Surgery Training Program underwent a regular Royal
College accreditation site survey in March of 2019 and received full approval
by the Accreditation Committee for the next

The General Surgery Residency Program began Competence by Design (CBD) in July
2020 in alignment with the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Canada’s initiative to introduce competency based medical education (CBME) in
Canadian postgraduate specialty training.  Residents entering the General
Surgery program in July 2021 will be in the CBD program, including Surgical
Foundations.

All CBD programs (and traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal
College approved certification. Certification for trainees in both CBD and
traditional programs will include the completion of a Royal College
examination; however, residents in CBD programs will also be assessed against
program milestones throughout their training. Within a CBD program, all
milestones (documented within an electronic portfolio) and the Royal College
examination must be successfully completed to achieve certification.

For more information, please contact cbd@royalcollege.ca



**Strengths of the program**

  * Program director and assistant director are both well regarded by staff and residents
  * Administrative staff is well regarded, accessible, organized
  * A caring and supportive learning environment
  * Academic day that is protected and allows for comprehensive learning
  * Research program is exceptional
  * We offer an exceptional Surgical Scientist Program and research opportunities.
  * Faculty with wide range of expertise and research experience
  * Flexibility of the program to resident needs especially in third year
  * Strong residents' committee (MGSRC)



**Strengths of Surgical Foundations**

  * Strong academic curriculum that includes didactic lectures, technical skills sessions, and development of interpersonal skills sessions
  * Protected teaching time
  * Good communication with home programs 
  * Very accessible administrative support personnel

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

Program application language: Either English or French

In addition to the completed CaRMS Application, all applicants should attach a
copy of their most recent résume (CV).

Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada: Applying competency-based
practices to residency education.

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/competence-design-e), aims to enhance
patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving
patient needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education
process. All residents who started training in General Surgery in Canada from
2020 forward will be enrolled in the CBD curriculum.

These milestones will create more targeted learning outcomes and involve more
frequent, formative assessments within the clinical workplace to ensure
residents are developing and receiving feedback on the skills they need.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and
traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification. Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs
will include the completion of a Royal College examination; however, residents
in CBD programs will also be assessed against program milestones throughout
their training. Within a CBD program, all milestones (documented within an
electronic portfolio) and the Royal College examination must be successfully
completed to achieve certification.

For more information, please contact
http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/what-is-cbd-e

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP must be submitted with each application.  
EITHER:

  * A copy of Canadian Birth Certificate or a copy of Certificate of Canadian Citizenship

OR

  * A copy of Permanent Resident Card (copy of both sides of the card) OR a copy of an IMM 5292, IMM 1000, IMM 5688;   
NB: the Permanent Resident card can be expired.

OR

  * A copy of Citizenship Card (copy of both sides of the card)

P.S: the passport is not an acceptable proof of citizenship.

Each year, all candidates applying in a CaRMS match must provide proof of
valid current citizenship or permanent resident status. As of the 2021 R-1
match cycle, CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate
the citizenship/legal status verification, which is usually completed by
Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) offices.

if an applicant has had their citizenship/legal status documentation verified
by any of the following organizations for the current R-1 match, the applicant
will not be required to assign a proof of citizenship/PR document (as pictured
in the screenshot below).

  * Medical Council of Canada ([MCC](https://mcc.ca/))
  * British Columbia's Clinical Assessment Program ([BC-CAP](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/clinical-assessment/))
  * Bureau de cooperation interuniversitaire ([BCI](https://www.bci-qc.ca/en/))
  * Alberta International Medical Graduate Program ([AIMG](https://www.aimg.ca/))

For further information, please check the following link on CaRMS:
[https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-
citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-)

Examinations

Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the MCCQE Part I exam, please include the statement of
results and supplemental information report in your application.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the NAC exam, please include the statement of results and
supplemental information report in your application. The MCCQE Part II or
Certificate of Registration of the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada
(LMCC) is accepted in place of the NAC Examination.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. Letters from senior residents will
not be considered. Applicant files with less than 3 letters of recommendation
will not be reviewed. References must be dated no later than one year from
time of receipt. Undated reference letters will not be accepted.

**Our Selection Committee is interested in learning the following from your
referee:**

  * How long have you known the applicant? (i.e. years, months, weeks)
  * Please describe the general structure of your service's clinical rotations for clerks (e.g. subspecialty exposure, teaching, clinics, call, ORs, endoscopy, etc.)
  * Is the student able to complete a consult/clinic encounter to an acceptable level in an appropriate amount of time?
  * Comment on the student's fund of knowledge and ability to apply their knowledge.
  * Has the student participated in the OR? If so, how many times?
  * What surgical skills did you directly observe? To what level did they perform? (e.g. 'below expectations for a medical student', 'at the level of a PGY1')
  * Comment on the following attributes (please include specific examples):
  * Professionalism
  * Work ethic
  * Collaboration skills
  * Has this student shown the ability to be a self-directed learner? (please give specific examples)
  * How strongly would you endorse this medical student for a General Surgery residency training program? (e.g. 'Must-have', 'strong candidate')



Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Required - used for memory aid

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  250

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter is required in which the candidates must state the career
goals, reasons for pursuing a surgical career and reasons for choosing McGill
University. Word count for a personal letter should be a minimum of 250 words.

Custom Résumé / CV

Applicants are required to submit a custom C.V.

Additional required IMG documents

Lettre de reconnaissance de l'équivalence du diplôme MD

Please provide the results of the exams that permitted you to have your
medical degree recognized and approved by the CMQ.

Graduates with the diploma of doctor of osteopathy awarded by a school of
osteopathic medicine situated in the United States providing that the school
is accredited by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the
American Osteopathic Association do not have to obtain the recognition of the
equivalence of the medical diploma by the CMQ. These graduates do not require
the MCCQE Part I, the National Assessment Collaboration (NAC), or the
Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada (LMCC) in order to apply.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Our selection process for interviews is non-biased, objective and fair. All
applications are reviewed by multiple assessors and interviews are granted
based on application scores. We receive many applications each year and
interview those selected by the selection Committee. Following review of the
applicant's file, only selected candidates will be offered of an interview.
Selection will be based on transcripts, letters of reference, personal letter,
medical student performance record, academic and non academic achievements and
research. In the interview selection process, preference will be given to
applicants who have at least one elective in general surgery or have completed
a clinical elective at McGill University.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 5, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held on Wednesday,
Wednesday, February 5, 2025, conducted remotely via Zoom.  
  

  


Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process:

All applications are reviewed and scored independently by assessors.
Application scores which are above the established criteria set by the
Residency Program Committee and the Resident Selection Committee will be
invited for interviews.

Each candidate invited for an interview will participate in a multiple mini-
interview, tentatively planned to last 50-60 minutes. Each mini-interview team
will consist of a faculty surgeon and a resident. A standardized scoring
scheme will be applied to the interviews.

In addition to the interviews, formal presentations by the Chair, Program
Director and residents will be made at our virtual social event on February 4,
2025

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates should have a demonstrated interest in surgery, strong leadershipd
and an interest in general surgrery. The candidate should have the ability to
learn and suceed in a surgical training environment, as well as have the
ability to work in a team.  

Electives in surgery, while helpful, are not required. The main selection
criteria are evidence of personal attributes derived from the Medical Student
Performance Record and from references which give an honest appraisal of
stronger and weaker points. Review of the applicant's curriculum vitae,
transcript, personal letter, letters of references and academic research.  We
are looking for mature, keen, enthusiastic applicants ready to accept the
challenge of training in an innovative program the best of academic and
community surgery all in a cosmopolitan city.  Personal interviews are also
important.  

## Program goals

#### Our residency training program has a longstanding commitment to
excellence in patient care, education and research. Our teaching program is
robust; our staff considers resident teaching to be of utmost importance with
the goal of preparing our trainees for either academic or community practice.
Our residents demonstrate exceptional clinical skills, interpersonal skills,
technical competence, judgement, research experience and academic excellence.
Our residents have the ability to teach medical students and residents.  We
encourage a healthy work-life balance and support resident participation in
non-medical pursuits.  

#### We are looking for residents that demonstrate the promise to be an
excellent surgeon. Driven candidates who are eager to take advantage of all
opportunities the program has to offer with the potential to become national
and international leaders in General Surgery.

We offer a comprehensive Surgeon Scientist Program (SSP) for those interested
in academic surgery.





## Selection process goals

We assess applicants along the lines of the CanMEDS roles. Successful
applicants will have the academic potential to become exceptional general
surgeons. We look for candidates who have demonstrated the ability to learn
and who will excel in the academic environment. We seek to identify applicants
who take an enthusiastic approach to their work and who will interact
effectively and appropriately with patients and all hospital staff.



**Successful applicants will demonstrate:**

  * Commitment to general surgery as a career
  * Strong interpersonal skills and leadership potential
  * Demonstrate an interest in the acquisition of technical skills and clinical acumen
  * Aptitude to engage in research
  * Honesty and integrity
  * Ability to communicate clearly with colleagues
  * Ability to work as a team player
  * The ability to be flexible and calm under pressure
  * Posses a good work ethic

Ability to progress technically

**Successful applicants will demonstrate:**

  * Commitment to general surgery as a career
  * Strong interpersonal skills and leadership potential
  * Demonstrate an interest in the acquisition of technical skills and clinical acumen
  * Aptitude to engage in research
  * Honesty and integrity
  * Ability to communicate clearly with colleagues
  * Ability to work as a team player
  * The ability to be flexible and calm under pressure
  * Posses a good work ethic
  * Ability to progress technically

                                                                



## File review process

Review team composition : Review team consists of the Program Director,
Assistant Program Director, members of the Residency Program Committee, senior
residents. he team evaluate files using a rating scale .Decisions made by the
CaRMS Selection Committee are final and not open to appeal.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
We receive an average of 120-140 applicants per year.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  
We interview an average of 35-45 applicants per year.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Personal success and contribution to teams. Academic background, extra-curricular activities, electives, awards, publications…   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Electives in general surgery and subspecialty; positive interaction.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Examination scores entered on CaRMS (if any) will be reviewed to confirm a passing grade was achieved.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  All aspects of the applicant’s extra-curricular activities will be considered, including advocacy and activism work. Well rounded. Sport/leisure activities, volunteering, organizations   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  All aspects, including leadership in academic, clinical, and extra-curricular settings. Mentorship, leadership roles, teaching roles.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  All aspects of the MSPR will be considered, including all clinical evaluations, interpersonal skills and academic potential.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Motivation towards General Surgery career, evidence of a self-learner. Reason for selecting McGill.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  All aspects, including adherence to the reference letter requirements. Positive interaction with colleagues and patients. Ability to function autonomously. References letters are assessed.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Ability to participate in research and produce scholarly output. Quantity, quality, depth of involvement; interest in participating in future projects.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  All aspects of the applicant’s transcript will be considered.   
Other file component(s) |  All applicant files submitted before the deadline will be reviewed by the selection committee. Each file is evaluated on a number of merits, including, but not limited to, strong academic record, interest in scholarly activities, leadership in extracurricular activities, and strength of reference letters from staff physicians. For electives in General Surgery, the Program may contact the elective supervisor.  
  
We look for evidence of commitment to general surgery in addition to strong
academic performance and an interest in completing their residency at McGill
University.  
  
The final ranking process is determined primarily by a combination of file
review and interview scores.  
  
We do encourage applicants to have done at least one elective in General
Surgery.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We do encourage applicants to have completed at least one elective in General
Surgery.

The Selections Committee is aware of restrictions on visiting electives this
cycle. As such, we will work to organize online information sessions to ensure
all students have an opportunity to learn more about our program as well as
ask questions to residents and faculty.

We encourage applicants to have completed at least one elective in our
discipline.



## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Can demonstrate humility in the face of difficult workplace relationships. Collaboration will be evaluated as part of the interview process.   
Collegiality |  Interpersonal interactions with staff and residents. Teamwork abilities. Collegiality will be evaluated as part of the interview process.   
Communication skills |  Clarity of thought and language, and empathy towards patients. Professional communicator. Communication skills will be evaluated as part of the interview process.   
Health advocacy |  Medical care for your patients. Health advocacy skills will be evaluated as part of the interview process.   
Interest in the discipline |  Dedication to general surgery as a career. Demonstrates and explains motivation towards General Surgery as well as for McGill University .   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrates knowledge of our residency and explains interest and how they might be a good match to the McGill General Surgery Program.   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrates research, teaching, and team work. Leadership skills will be evaluated as part of the interview process.   
Professionalism |  Professional behaviour in difficult situations. How you correspondence with staff and residents and patients and families.   
Scholarly activities |  Ability to engage and produce meaningful scholarly work (not a requirement).   
Other interview component(s) |  Overall demeanor reflective of a modest, pleasant person who gives us the impression that they are a team player.  
  
We do not offer other interview formats for applicants unable to participate
in the MMI on the scheduled interview day. All will be done on a virtual
platform.  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  Our selection process for interviews is non-biased, objective and
fair. All applications are reviewed by multiple assessors and interviews are
granted based on application scores. We receive many applications each year
and interview those selected by the selection Committee. Following review of
the applicant's file, only selected candidates will be offered of an
interview. Selection will be based on transcripts, letters of reference,
personal letter, medical student performance record, academic and non academic
achievements and research. In the interview selection process, preference will
be given to applicants who have at least one elective in general surgery or
have completed a clinical elective at McGill University.  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights



The General Surgery Residency Program at McGill University has a long history
of excellence in surgical training and research. Graduates of the program are
found around the globe, specialists in the field of General Surgery and all
subspecialty areas. Our graduates are successful at obtaining highly
competitive fellowship positions and are well-prepared to take on all academic
and career challenges. Graduates are eligible to be certified by the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada and the American Board of
Surgery. Our faculty are highly skilled surgeons who are recognized for their
contributions to resident education, clinical care and research. The training
program is under the dedicated supervision of Dr. Sender Liberman (Program
Director), Dr. Kate McKendy (Assistant Program Director), Dr. Paola Fata
(Division Director) and Dr. Liane Feldman (Chair of Department of Surgery).

Depending on the interest of individual residents, there is ample opportunity
for community surgery rotations, electives in all fields and a robust research
program. In the third year of training, some residents can participate in a
fully funded research program tailored to their interests. Many residents
complete graduate degrees during that time, further enriching their
experience. For additional information on the Surgical Scientist Program:
<https://mcgill.ca/surgery/research>.

McGill University is one of the world’s premiere universities located in
wonderfully diverse and vibrant Montreal. We welcome any inquiries you might
have about the program and look forward to having you join us as a resident in
the future!



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

  |  Curriculum The McGill University General Surgery Training Program is a 5 year program that has transitioned to Competence by Design in July 2020. The program as designed will provide residents with an exceptional training in general surgery with flexibility to obtain career goals based on independent needs.   
Transition to Practice (Approximately 3-6 Months) - During a transition to
practice residents will participate in the Surgical Foundations Course and
Boot Camp. In order to facilitate this residents will be preferentially placed
on general surgery services.  
Foundations to Discipline (Approximately 18-24 months) During the Foundations
to Discipline trainees will rotate through 14 blocks of general surgery
(including transplant and hepatopancreatic biliary service), 2-blocks trauma,
2-blocks vascular, 1-block of thoracic surgery, 2-blocks of critical care,
2-blocks of endoscopy, 2-blocks of pediatric surgery. Core of Discipline
(Approximately 24 months) - The majority of senior general surgery blocks will
be completed preparing individuals for the written Royal College exam which
will happen in the fall of the R5 year. Electives may be granted as part of
the Core of Discipline  
Transition to Practice (Approximately 6-12 months) - During the Transition to
Practice rotations will be tailored to the individual resident career goals.  
Our graduates will be able to practice with confidence in either the community
hospital or as an academic in a university teaching hospital. Throughout the
five years of training, the Program Director in consultation with the resident
will establish the curriculum based on the resident's needs and long-term
goals. Residents wishing to enter competitive programs in critical care and
trauma, colorectal, endocrine, pediatric surgery and surgical oncology are
allowed to spend extra time on services subspecializing in these areas. In
addition residents are allowed to complete an elective at an outside
institution which they wish to attend at the completion of their residency. We
have a highly structured teaching program that includes academic half day
sessions such as Senior Face-Off, Jeopardy, MIS Laparoscopic Skills Course,
Open Skills Course and Journal Club. Furthermore, we have annual oral
examinations, written examinations, and all our residents take the annual CAGS
in-training exam.  
---|---  
  
**Research**  
  |  There is an opportunity for full time research within the general surgery program. An annual Residents' Research Day is held during which work is presented by all postgraduate trainees. There are multitude of opportunities available to suit the needs of every resident. Additional courses can be taken to obtain a Master's Degree in Epidemiology in the winter term in consultation with the Program Director. Those interested in a career as an educator can complete a Master's Degree in Education. Finally, a number of residents enroll every year in the highly competitive and demanding Surgical Scientist Program. This is a 1-1/2 year basic science research program leading to a Master's Degree, which can be completed under the supervision of a clinician-scientist in the Division of General Surgery or an affiliated researcher at the McGill University Hospital Centre (MUHC) (i.e. Department of Molecular Oncology). This program is ideal for those intending to pursue an academic career with a strong research component.Funding is provided for residents to attend conferences where their research has been accepted for presentation. There is funding from the Division of General Surgery for residents to attend conferences where their research has been accepted for presentation. Residents accepted into the program have the opportunity to apply for the Surgeon Scientist Program (SSP) following their PGY-2 year. Acceptance to the SSP is competitive and enrollment varies year to year. Acceptance to the program will be based on clinical performance and the proposed research project. Residents who enter the SSP must enroll in at least a a 1 ½ year thesis based graduate program. Residents have a wide choice of graduate programs to consider including Basic Science, Clinical Epidemiology, Health Services Research, and Research in Surgical Education. Further details regarding these programs https://www.mcgill.ca/gps/ Residents return to senior clinical training after completing their Master's or PhD degree. All SSP residents will complete 5 years of clinical training (i.e. they DO NOT skip a PGY year). The Surgeon Scientist Program satisfies the requirements of the Royal College Clinician Investigator Program. Further details regarding the Surgeon Scientist Training Program can be found on https://www.mcgill.ca/surgery/research/research Resident travel fund- the Division provides funding for travel when presenting research at a conference.  
  
**Seminars**  
  |  A series of seminars are held on Wednesday. Residents in the program are excused from clinical duties, as this time is protected and attendance is mandatory. The academic activities include lectures, journal club and innovative and interactive adult teaching techniques.  
Junior residents are given specific lectures on the Principles of Surgery in
preparation for Part I of the Royal College exam. Senior residents are given
oral examinations in preparation for the Royal College Certification Exam. In
addition to this formal teaching, residents are involved in service rounds,
oncology grand rounds and surgical grand rounds. Technical skills are taught
in formal modules for both open and laparoscopic surgery. Open surgical
techniques specific for junior and senior surgical residents are taught on
cadavers while laparoscopic skills are taught in dry and wet labs. A formal
Surgical Skills Centre should be operational in the near future and we will
incorporate all the above surgical skills training.  
  
  
  
  




* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

Several hospitals participate in the General Surgery Residency Program.  Each
teaching site provides exposure and specialized training in one or more
aspects of General Surgery and its subspecialties.  Although each resident
should expect to spend time in each of our Teaching Hospitals, the
distribution of rotations is established on an ongoing basis by both the
Program Director and the individual resident.



These include:



Major teaching hospitals

  * Montreal General Hospital (MGH)
  * Royal Victoria Hospital (RVH/Glen)
  * Jewish General Hospital (JGH)
  * St. Mary’s Hospital (SMH)
  * Montreal Children's Hospital (MCH/Glen)



Rural/Community Hospitals

  * Centre Hospitalier Regional de Lanaudiere Joliette
  * Gatineau
  * Lakeshore General Hospital

* * *

# Additional Information

The Canadian Association of General Surgery In-Training Examination is written
annually to provide feedback and measure progress. An extensive series of
practice oral exams is conducted during the final year to help residents
prepare for their Royal College Fellowship Exams.  The program will provide
all residents with a CAGS, Canadian Association of General Surgery,
membership.

Rotations can usually be designed to meet the residents needs and goals as
there is a wide variety of clinical material and a high yearly case load.
Flexibility is a popular feature and strength of the McGill General Surgery
Program.

he unique combination of the small size of the program with a very large
clinical volume allows frequent clinical interaction between staff and
residents, and there are many benefits from the consultants and residents
coming to know each other well.

The strength of McGill's  General Surgery Program is the educational
experience provided during our teaching rounds and protected academic half-
days. Broad clinical experience in all subspecialty areas of general surgery
provide the necessary exposure to train excellent surgeons.

Our program has an extremely high rate of pass on Royal College examinations.



For more information on :

Montreal Tourism:   <https://www.bonjourquebec.com/en-ca/>

Festivals:  <https://www.mtl.org/en/experience/montreal-summer-festival-guide>

Experience Montreal:  https://www.mtl.org/en/what-to-do/activities

* * *

# FAQ

Q: Can I enroll in a Master’s or PhD during residency?

A: Many residents do research as part of their third year of training (PGY-3).
Some enroll in graduate degrees via the[ Surgeon Scientist
Program](https://mcgill.ca/surgery/research). This can extend the training
time, but many residents find this to be a rewarding experience where they
gain research experience and often get their research published and presented
at international meetings.



Q: Is McGill the place for me if I’m interested in training for a community
General Surgery career?

A: McGill trains residents to be excellently skilled General Surgeons no
matter where they plan to work afterwards. However, as a highly academic
institution, the research and other academic opportunities often attract
trainees interested in academic careers and competitive fellowships. We
welcome anyone with an interest in becoming a General Surgeon of any sort!



Q: Are residents supported to attend conferences?

A: The program will financially support residents to attend conferences that
they are presenting research... For additional information, [click
here](https://www.mcgill.ca/generalsurgery/currentres/travel-reimbursement-
procedure).



Q: Language

A: McGill University proudly welcomes an international cohort of residents
into its Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) each year. Residents gain
valuable experience serving a diverse, multicultural community in French and
English. In Quebec, residents are legally required to care for patients in
French and in English. Therefore, PGME provides residents with French language
acquisition tools and resources to help ensure each can care for Francophone
patients, as well as fully benefit from their training experience.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27421?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27421