#  University of Toronto - Vascular Surgery - Toronto  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Elisa Greco  

Address Vascular Surgery  
U of T  
149 College St - 5th Floor 503F  
Toronto, Ontario, M5T 1P5  

Work  416-978-7423

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Vascular Surgery Website
](https://surgery.utoronto.ca/residency-division-vascular-surgery)  
[ PGME at U of T ](http://www.pgme.utoronto.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Terri Ann McIntosh

Title: Vascular Administrator

Email: vascular.admin@utoronto.ca

Phone: 416-978-7423

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion**  
All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of the
University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

  
**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)  
** The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.  
  
_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

  * The program offers a comprehensive experience in vascular surgery across multiple training sites including community vascular settings
  * This program includes open surgical and endovascular training in standard and advanced endovascular aneurysm repair as well as peripheral vascular interventions
  * Two of the main training sites (UHN and SMH) participate in a regional call coverage program for the Greater Toronto Area which provides a large volume and variety of emergency vascular cases
  * Training in diagnostic vascular ultrasound is a mandatory component of the training
  * In addition to elective open and endovascular cases, residents will be exposed to iatrogenic and non-iatrogenic vascular trauma management, paediatiatric vascular trauma, and will be part of a team that provides vascular support to multidisciplinary surgical oncology cases
  * Trainees with an interest in research have the opportunity to pursue a higher level degree in the highly acclaimed Surgeon Scientist Program at the University of Toronto (strongly encouraged)

In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

If possible one or more letters from a faculty member in Vascular Surgery is
helpful but not required.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

Your personal letter should outline your academic and career goals in Vascular
Surgery. Highlight your leadership activities and any other information
relevant to your application.

Maximum word count: 1000 (no minimum)  
  
_Important Note: Please address any gaps in training or remediation periods in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count._

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Individual applications are scored by Faculty and resident reviewers (three
scores per application) using an objective scoring process candidates who
score above our cut-off will be offered interviews.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 31, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Candidates invited for interview will
complete a multiple mini personal virtual interview format assessment (two
interviews per candidate).  Candidates will be virtually interviewed by
residents and faculty members.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Candidates who are considered to have
a reasonable opportunity for acceptance on the basis of pre-screening of their
written application documents are contacted for an interview.  
  
The interview process involves a multiple virtual interview format with
structured questions and formalized scoring.  In addition, each short
interview, will include the opportunity for less structured questions and
answers.  Candidates will have the opportunity to meet faculty members and
residents both ahead of and after the interviews virtually.  Each candidate
will have two interviews. Interviewers are made up of a group of faculty and
vascular surgery residents (of different levels) who are form the residency
program selection committee.  The selection committee will rate candidates and
establish a formal ranking on the basis of combined scoring of their written
applications, and their interview performance.  
  
  
  
Interviews will be conducted virtually via Zoom.  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

\- A good academic record which demonstrates special proficiency in those
subjects related to Vascular Surgery

\- Candidates should have a proven interest in surgery. This can be
demonstrated by electives and references from staff in any of the surgical
specialties

\- If possible one or more references letters from a faculty member in
vascular surgery is helpful but not required. Referees should be able to
attest to interest and proficiency in the specialty as well as comments on
interpersonal skills, motivation, work ethic, etc.

\- Candidates with an interest in research, both in basic science, clinical
research, education, etc. are encouraged to apply

\- Special accomplishments either within medicine or outside of medicine are
reviewed favourably

\- All applications are screened by a subcommittee of the Residency Program
Committee which will rank applicants after their interview

## Program goals

The University of Toronto's Vascular Surgery Residency Program aims to provide
an excellent opportunity for Residents to develop the broad range of
knowledge, skills, and attitudes required for success as a vascular surgeon.
Residents will be exposed to common and uncommon vascular problems including
adult and paediatric vascular trauma, as well as multidisciplinary vascular
oncology cases, and complex aortic pathology.

Residents must learn how to manage these problems in a comprehensive fashion
and gain adequate experience and training in conservative management,
endovascular, and open-surgical techniques.  All residents will be able to
appropriately select and interpret non-invasive vascular imaging studies for
the diagnosis and management of vascular problems.  With a relatively larger
number of different training sites compared to other vascular training
programs, a goal of the program is to teach residents multiple different,
valid approaches to clinical problems.

The University of Toronto's Vascular Surgery Residency program aims to train
leaders in Vascular Surgery who will support the academic endeavor through
teaching and research, and advance knowledge in the field.  The program aims
to graduate vascular specialists who can comprehensively manage our aging
society's increasing burden of vascular disease.   These specialists will be
committed to multidisciplinary care of the vascular patient and be prepared
for the lifelong-learning required to stay abreast of this rapidly advancing
field.

## Selection process goals

\- High academic achievers, motivation to purse a surgical career in general
with dedicated experience towards pursing a Vascular career specifically.

\- Interest in post graduate research preferred.

\- Candidates that are considered to have a reasonable opportunity for
acceptance are contacted for interview, which will be held according to the
schedule set by the Vascular Surgery Specialty Committee of the Royal College
and CaRMS.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is made up of Faculty members and
residents currently in the program.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
7-20 applicants

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  
100%

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Reviewed by three independent assessors   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted candidates’ opportunities to arrange and complete electives and would like to reassure you that a lack of elective activity this year will not negatively impact your application to our program.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Highlight activities that demonstrate hobbies and interests outside of medicine and surgery.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Prior experience preferred   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Should document dedication to the specialty as well as specific interest in the U of T program   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Reviewed by three independent assessors   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Previous academic activity/ publications preferred   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Demonstration of high academic achievement i.e. awards and scholarships   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted
candidates’ opportunities to arrange and complete electives and would like to
reassure you that a lack of elective activity this year will not negatively
impact your application to our program.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Applicants must be good collaborators   
Collegiality |  Applicants should be proceed to be collegiality   
Communication skills |  Applicants must demonstrate high level of communication in write and oral   
Health advocacy |  Applicant must demonstrate how they are a health advocate   
Interest in the discipline |  Candidates who are not interested in Vascular Surgery will not be considered   
Interest in the program |  Candidates must demonstrate a interest in our program   
Leadership skills |  Be prepared to discus leadership experiences   
Professionalism |  Looking for " red flags" in application   
Scholarly activities |  Previous scholarly activity preferred   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

This program is carried out across six teaching sites including the Toronto
General Hospital, St. Michael's Hospital, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Center,
Trillium Health Center, Scarborough General Hospital and Humber River Regional
Hospital.  Open and endovascular training are provided at all sites.  We
encourage a strong academic focus in our residents who are expected to
complete a research project annually for presentation at the vascular surgery
residency program annual research day. Residents who enter the Surgeon
Scientist Training Program (SSTP) do so after their second year and on
completion of their SSTP training re-enter the clinical stream for a final
three years.  



Beginning PGY1 residents start their training with a central departmental
skills boot camp and follow with a vascular surgery specific boot camp.  This
three week experience allows our residents to make the most of their initial
experiences in the operating room.  During the first two years residents
complete off-service surgical and medical rotations and have an initial
experience in the vascular laboratory.  Third year residents complete
rotations in cardiac surgery as well as further vascular rotations.  During
the final two years residents are expected to run a vascular service at one of
our core sites and receive additional interventional radiology and vascular
lab experience.  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Please see program highlights.

As of July 2021, the U of T Vascular Surgery Program implemented the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada Competency by Design Curriculum.

In addition residents must complete the Surgical Foundation Curriculum during
their PGY1 and 2 years.



* * *

# Training Sites



University Health Network, Toronto General Hospital

St. Michael's Hospital

Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre

Trillium Health Partners

Humber River Hospital

Scarborough General Hospital  
  

For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>

* * *

# Additional Information

  1. **Permanent Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education office in order to comply with current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry of Colleges and Universities
  2. **Matched applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data file to the matched university’s postgraduate education office. The postgraduate office will share the information as needed, but not limited to, the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:**  The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure to meet or provide proof**  of any of the stated requirements may result in applicant file being removed at any point during the match.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27347?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27347