#  University of Alberta - Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation - Edmonton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Heather Lindstrom  

Address Division of Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation  
Room 1226 - 10230 - 111 Avenue  
Glenrose Rehabilitation Hospital  
Edmonton, Alberta, Alberta, T5G 0B7  

Work  (780) 735-8870

Websites of Interest [ University of Alberta Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation Website ](https://www.ualberta.ca/department-of-
medicine/education/residency-programs/physical-medicine-
rehabilitation/index.html)  
[ UAlberta PMR CaRMs Website
](https://sites.google.com/ualberta.ca/physmedrehab-carms/home)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Elisabeth Almeida

Title: Program Administrator

Email: pmrrespr@ualberta.ca

Phone: 780-735-8870

  

* * *

# Important Information

  

* * *

# Return of Service

There are no return of service requirements at the University of Alberta.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Please see the Alberta [provincial
criteria.](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/)

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) are required to provide proof of
English language proficiency as determined by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) who completed their medical education in
Quebec or at the University of Ottawa (French Stream) are required to provide
proof of English language proficiency as determined by the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

CMGs who completed their medical education at the University of Ottawa must
indicate on their application which stream they completed (either French or
English).

_For more information on the CPSA English language requirements, please visit
the  [CPSA website](https://cpsa.ca/physicians/registration/english-language-
proficiency/)._

Reference documents

Required

Applicant support form  Number requested: 3

Narrative letters of reference are no longer accepted for this program. Your
reference must complete the required structured reference form found here:
[Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Structured Reference
Letter.](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/physical-medicine-and-rehab-structured-
reference-letter.pdf)

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter is required. The personal letter should outline the
candidate's interest in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, what attracted
the candidate to Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and the candidate's
attributes that will lead to a successful career in Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation.

Optional - will be reviewed

Custom Résumé / CV

Abstract/Publications

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 30, 2025
  * January 31, 2025

Details regarding interview dates:  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All interviews will be held by
virtual format.  After the application review, short-listed candidates will be
contacted for interviews.  The interview process is an opportunity for the
interview committee to get to know the applicants and for the applicants to
ask questions about our program.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

We strive to provide residents with comprehensive training in Physical
Medicine and Rehabilitation that will prepare them to be competent and
respected Physiatrists with the knowledge, skills and attitudes needed for
successful independent clinical practice (community, academic, general or sub-
specialty) as well as a commitment to continued self-assessment, life-long
self-directed learning and evidence-based care.

## Selection process goals

We value applicants that have:

  * Shown academic proficiency and an interest and aptitude in neurological and musculoskeletal areas
  * Shown an interest in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
  * Demonstrated excellent communication and interpersonal skills
  * Demonstrated the ability to work as part of an interdisciplinary team
  * Demonstrated the ability to learn and respond to feedback
  * Demonstrated an interest in research.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team (consisting of the program
directors, faculty and residents) reviews the applications to determine who is
selected for an interview.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Excellence and interest in areas other than clinical medicine   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Electives in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and/or related specialities   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Interests in areas other than clinical medicine   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Participation in leadership activities   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Successful completion of training program without highlighted concerns   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Reason for interest in PM&R; and knowledge of the specialty   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive letters of reference, ideally at least one from PM&R; elective   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest and involvement in research   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Successful completion of training program without highlighted concerns   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Our program does not favour residents who do electives at our site or numerous
electives in our specialty. We consider and value applicants with broad
clinical experiences.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Learn about your experiences and how you respond to various situations   
Collegiality |  Interpersonal skills   
Communication skills |  Verbal and non verbal communication and listening skills   
Health advocacy |  Learn about your involvement in health advocacy   
Interest in the discipline |  Why do you want to be a Physiatrist?   
Interest in the program |  Knowledge of the program and what attracts you to our program   
Leadership skills |  Learn about your leadership experiences   
Professionalism |  Learn about your experiences and how you respond in various situations   
Scholarly activities |  Interest in basic science, clinical research, quality improvement and medical education   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

 The University of Alberta Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation program is
committed to resident education, wellness and success.

Strengths of our program include exposure to a large, diverse and complex
population of patients and access to state of the art rehabilitation
technology (including the CAREN - Computer Assisted Rehabilitation Environment
- system, ICAN centre for assistive technology, and Syncrude Centre for Motion
and Balance).

The program provides comprehensive exposure to all Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation subspecialty areas including pediatric rehabilitation,
interventional MSK (ultrasound and fluoroscopic guided injections), and
spasticity.

The program also collaborates with several strong research groups, including
the iSMART (Sensory Motor Adaptive Rehabilitation Technology) Institute and
Sensorimotor Rehabilitation Network at the University of Alberta, thus
providing residents with the opportunity to work alongside leading researchers
in various fields including rehabilitation, medicine, engineering, computer
science, and neurosciences

The program collaborates with the University of Calgary and University of
Saskatchewan to provide comprehensive practice exams each year.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Division of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation is within the Department
of Medicine at the University of Alberta. The Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation (PM&R) program is accredited and meets the specialty training
requirements for PM&R set out by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons
of Canada.

The program works on a preceptor basis with subspecialty programs in all major
areas of rehabilitation. In addition to the required rotations, the program
offers a wide range of elective experiences. Residents are permitted to
undertake interprovincial and/or international electives.

The program has a well supported Pediatric Rehabilitation rotation with
several pediatric physiatrists on staff and access to developmental
pediatricians, pediatric orthopedic surgeons and pediatric neurologists. For
residents interested in additional training in Pediatric Rehabilitation, there
is a Pediatric Rehabilitation Medicine Clinical Fellowship through the
Department of Pediatrics at the University of Alberta.



## **Curriculum**

The Competence by Design (CBD) curriculum involves four stages of training:
transition to discipline, foundations of discipline, core of discipline and
transition to practice.

The transition to discipline stage of training includes two blocks of Physical
Medicine and Rehabilitation where the transition to discipline residents have
the opportunity to work with faculty and core of discipline residents across a
variety of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation sub-specialities. The
transition to discipline residents will perform clinical assessments focusing
on physiatry focused histories and physical examinations as well as generating
problems list based on the ICF framework.

The foundations of discipline stage provides a strong clinical basis for
rehabilitation with exposure to emergency medicine, general internal medicine,
geriatrics, neurology, rheumatology, pediatrics, psychiatry and surgical
specialties including neurosurgery, orthopedic surgery and plastic surgery.

The core of discipline stage includes Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
rotations such as: amputation rehabilitation, brain injury rehabilitation,
musculoskeletal rehabilitation, neuromuscular diseases/EMG, neuropulmonary
rehabilitation, pediatric rehabilitation, spinal cord medicine and stroke
rehabilitation.

The transition to practice stage is**  designed to provided residents with the
opportunity to manage complex patients across the continuum of Physical
Medicine and Rehabilitation.  There is ample opportunity for residents to
demonstrate leadership, time-management and advocacy skills in a variety of
contents.  This stage also focuses on implementing a plan for lifelong
learning and continuing professional development. **



## **Research**

The Division of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at the University of
Alberta has a strong research interest and close affiliation with the
Neuroscience Research Group and iSMART Institute at the University of Alberta.
Residents will complete at least one scholarly project under the direction of
a research supervisor. There is protected time for the residents to complete
their scholarly projects in blocks or longitudinally.  Academic Faculty with a
primary interest in research are available to mentor residents. Residents are
expected to present their research at a provincial and/or national conference
and most submit their manuscript for publication. Several residents in the
program have won research awards and essay contacts at national and
international conferences.



## **Academic Activities**

Residents have protected time to attend weekly academic half day sessions. The
academic sessions cover medical expert topics in Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, as well as anatomy, basic science, clinical skills, ethics,
indigenous health, practice management, research and other CanMEDS related
topics. Residents will have several opportunities to refine their presentation
skills over the course of residency, by presenting at academic half day and
other rounds series.  

Formal teaching seminars on Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation topics occur
throughout core rehabilitation rotations. At the end of each core rotation,
the resident will complete an end of rotation examination to test their
medical/rehabilitation knowledge related to that rehabilitation population.

Practice written examinations and applied exams/OSCEs, in accordance with the
Royal College of Physicians & Surgeons of Canada fellowship exam format, are
held twice a year. The program collaborates with the University of Calgary and
University of Saskatchewan for the fall written/applied examination and
alternates hosting the exam with the University of Calgary.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

The Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation residency training program is based
at the Glenrose Rehabilitation Hospital in Edmonton. The Glenrose
Rehabilitation Hospital is the largest free-standing, comprehensive tertiary
rehabilitation hospital in Canada, serving patients of all ages who require
complex rehabilitation to enable them to participate in life to the fullest.
The hospital serves the tertiary rehabilitation inpatient and outpatient needs
of the northern half of Alberta and British Columbia as well as the Northwest
Territories. An electromyography laboratory, gait lab and urodynamic suite are
located on site.

There are several community clinics within and around Edmonton that provide
clinical experiences for the residents in musculoskeletal rehabilitation,
neuromuscular disease/EMG, and interventional procedures.  

There are ~40 physiatrists actively involved with residency training and 14
residents enrolled in the training program at this time. The education to work
ratio has been very much in favour of resident education.

Off-service rotations are undertaken at other teaching hospitals including the
University of Alberta Hospital, Royal Alexandra Hospital, Misericordia
Hospital, and Gray Nuns Community Hospital within the Edmonton zone.

Residents have a study room and lounge of over 600 square feet, located at the
Glenrose Rehabilitation Hospital. The lounge is equipped with a kitchenette,
fridge, microwave and television.

* * *

# Additional Information

**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)**

The University of Alberta recognizes the importance of diversity, equity,
inclusivity, decolonization, and indigenization (EDIDI) and is committed to
the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry’s policy on anti-racism.

Further, the University is committed to implementing the Truth and
Reconciliation Commission calls to action that are relevant to education and
medicine.The pursuit of diversity and equitable opportunities is a core value
that guides our selection practices.

The University encourages applications from underrepresented groups, including
Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women,
persons of a minority gender identity or sexual orientation, and individuals
who would contribute to the diversity of the medical community. The CaRMS
Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) is an optional form that candidates
can fill out.

Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism in residency
selection, but is currently not using the CSIQ as part of our application
process. We are using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable
opportunities for all applicants.



**Achievements:**

Success at Royal College Specialty exam in PM&R:  100% success rate for > 25
years



**Resident Awards:**

\- CAPMR 1st Place for in progress project presentation, Eric Bhatti (2024)

\- GNH Resident of the Year for Emergency, Dasan Sydora (2023-24)

\- University of Alberta, Div. of PM&R - Jr Leadership Award, Everett
Claridge, PGY 3 (2022-23)

\- PARA May 2023 Resident of the Month, Arjun Ghuman & Brandon Lieu (2023)

\- PARA November 2022 Resident of the Month, Eric Bhatti (2022)

\- Professionalism Accolade Report for the FoMD, Everett Claridge (2022)

\- Spine Interventional Society Annual Meeting Best Poster Award, Alcyica
Amatto (2022)

\- Dr. Michael C. Koipillai Book Award, Div. of Neurology, Alycia Amatto
(2022)

\- APA Resident Research Award winner, Brett Wegenast (2021)

\- CAPMR Abstract Submission, Lindsay Hubenig, Arjun Ghuman (2020)

\- University of Alberta, Dr. Marni Hinton Award, Lindsay Hubenig (2019)

\- Dr. Michael C. Koilpillai Book Award, Div. of Neurology, Trevor Lashyn
(2016/17)

\- PARA August 2016 Resident Physician of the Month, Shane Hoeber (2016/17)

\- CAPMR 2nd place Original Research Contest, Alto Lo (2015/16)

\- APA Best Completed Research Project, Shane Hoeber (2015/16)

\- AANEM Best Abstract Runner-Up Award, Heather Lindstrom (2015/16)

\- CAPMR 3rd place Original Research, Alto Lo (2015/16)

\- CAPMR 2nd place Resident Research Contest, Elizabeth Condliffe, PGY-4
(2015/16)

\- CAPMR 1st place Shane Hoeber, PGY-3 (2015/16)

\- CAPMR Honorable mention Original Research, Chris Huang (2014/15)

\- University of Alberta, Div of PM&R - JR Leadership Award, George Francis,
PGY-3 (2013/14)

\- University of Alberta, Div of PM&R - JR Leadership Award, Chris Huang,
PGY-3 (2012/13)

\- University of Alberta - Tom Fisk Award in Neurology, Melissa Bosse, PGY 4
(2012/13)



For more information regarding the Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
training program at the University of Alberta please visit our
[website](https://www.ualberta.ca/department-of-medicine/education/residency-
programs/physical-medicine-rehabilitation).

* * *

# FAQ

How many residents are in the program?

  * There are currently 14 residents in the program.



What is your residency program's orientation and focus?

  * The University of Alberta's Physical Medicine and Residency program has a strong academic focus with an emphasis on resident-directed learning. The residents are exposed to all the sub-specialties in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and are exposed to a large, diverse and complex population of patients. We are fortunate to work with an amazing team of residents, faculty, allied health professionals, and administrative personnel who are dedicated to patient care and education.  



What are teaching sessions like in the residency program?

  * Formal teaching specific to the rotation occurs in each of the rotations and is preceptor-based.

  * Residents are freed from clinical responsibilities to attend weekly academic half-days are organized. Core modules incorporate basic science and clinical application sessions followed by problem-based learning (PBL) and application of the material learned. Topics can include clinical management, research, evidence-based medicine, CanMEDS roles, prescription rounds, and diagnostic imaging rounds. Monthly half-day anatomy sessions are also held throughout the year in the anatomy lab.



What is the on-call schedule during each year of residency?

  * During first year, call will be in-house or home call depending on the off-service rotation you are on.  Starting second year, resident perform home call (1 week at a time) for adult rehabilitation patients admitted to the Glenrose Rehabilitation Hospital. On average, residents cover 6 week-long home calls per year.  Call is generally quiet with occasional urgent issues which require the resident to go into the hospital to assess patients.





* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26646?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26646