#  University of Calgary - Obstetrics and Gynecology - Calgary  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 09, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 6

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Gail Lam  

Address Obstetrics & Gynecology  
Room 428, North Tower  
Foothills Medical Centre 1403-29th Street NW  
Calgary AB , Alberta, T2N 2T9  

Work  (403) 944-1437

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology
](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/departments/obstetrics-gynaecology/obstetrics-
gynaecology)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: Contact

Name: Karen McKeon

Title: Program Administrator

Email: karen.mckeon@albertahealthservices.ca

Phone: 403-944-1437

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada: Applying Competency
Based Practices to Residency Education**

The Obstetrics and Gynaecology Residency Training Program at the University of
Calgary transitioned to competency-based medical education (CBME) in July 2019
with all trainees entering the program after this date affiliated with
[Competence by Design (CBD)](https://www.royalcollege.ca/en/standards-and-
accreditation/competence-by-design.html), which aims to enhance patient care
by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving patient
needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education process.
The change brings extra emphasis on OBGYN CORE and some minor modifications in
PGY2-5.  We have an engaged Competency Committee, Faculty, Residency Program
Committee, Program Director and Program Administrator, to help support the
evolution in residency training.

CBD uses time as a framework for competency assessment rather than the basis
for progression. It is not anticipated that the duration of training will
change for the majority of trainees. Residency training is broken down into
[stages](https://canmeds.royalcollege.ca/en/milestones), and each stage will
have a series of entrustable professional activities (EPAs) and milestones
based on the required competencies. These EPAs and milestones improve learning
outcomes and will involve more frequent, formative assessments within the
clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving feedback
on the skills they need.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Candidates will be short-listed based on selection criteria (see below), and
then offered an interview date/time by the middle of January.  Our Program
abides by the SOGC dates set for interviews in Obstetrics and Gynecology.  

Interviews for 2025 will be conducted in January virtually over Zoom.



* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Maximum of THREE letters, preferably for Obstetrician Gynecologists.

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

Maximum of 750 words.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

Copy acceptable.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Personal Letter maximum word count 750.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Tuesday January 21st, 2025  
  
Wednesday January 22nd, 2025  
  
Thursday January 23rd, 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Candidates will be short-listed based
on program selection criteria, and then be offered a virtual interview
date/time.  
  
Interviews will be approximately one hour long. The interview panel will
consist of: 1. Program Director 2. Faculty Members 3. Residents/Fellows  
  
There will also be a 'virtual' information session with our Residents and
other candidates from 12:00 to13:00 on each day of interview. Candidates are
encouraged to attend the zoom hour social to meet and speak with our PGY1
Residents in a more casual atmosphere.  
  
Also there will be a 'social' zoom with all our residents on Tuesday January
21st and Wednesday January 22nd.  This will be organized soley by our
residents and is a time you can ask them any questions in a 'social' setting.
Candidates can attend either social zoom date.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Selection Criteria: A Selection Committee (comprising the Program Director,
Faculty Members and Residents/Fellows) will review all applications and a
short-list is developed based on a review of the quality of an applicant's
CaRMS file including:

1\. A strong a _cademic record_

2\. An individualized and well written _personal letter_

3\. A relevant and complete _Curriculum Vitae_ with an emphasis on interests
outside of medicine, as well as research/achievements of a candidate

4\. Three (more is not better!) _reference letters  _that specifically address
the aptitudes and skills outlined by CaRMS, particularly as they pertain to
the candidate's suitability for a career in Obstetrics and Gynecology. In this
regard, at least two letters from Obstetrician and Gynecologist is suggested.
Referees may be contacted by telephone regarding their letters.

Elective experiences were severely limited due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we
will not be considering electives in file review to ensure file review is fair
and equitable for all candidates.

## Program goals

Upon completion of training, the resident is expected to be a competent
specialist in Obstetrics & Gynecology, capable of assuming a consultant's role
in the specialty.  The resident must acquire a working knowledge of the
theoretical basis of the specialty, includings its foundations in basic
medical sciences and research.

Residents must demonstrate the requisite knowledge, skills and attitudes for
effective patient-centred care and service to diverse populations,  In all
aspects of specialist practice, the graduate must be able to address ethical
issues and issues of gender, sexual orientation, age, culture, beliefs and
ethnicity in a professional manner.

## Selection process goals

We are looking for enthusiastic, hard working residents that work best as part
of a team.  We do not expect brilliant surgeons and capable obstetricians when
you enter our program.  We hope applicants are coachable and have a love of
learning. We also hope you have passions outside of medicine; balanced
individuals make the best physicians!

Applicants should be on time for interview, be confident and well presented.  

## File review process

Review team composition : Residency Program Committee  
Faculty  
Residents

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Relevant and complete CV   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Elective experiences were severely limited due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we will not be considering electives in file review to ensure file review is fair and equitable for all candidates.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Interests outside of medicine   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership undertaken   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Personal and academic attributes   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Individualized and well written   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  THREE references required   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interests in research and achievements in medicine   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Strong academic record   
Other file component(s) |  Referees may be contacted by telephone regarding their reference support letters.  
Candidate files are scored with a standard template evaluating personal and
reference letters and the curriculum vitae. Each file is reviewed by a number
of people, including staff, resident reviewers and the Program Director. The
scores are collated and a preliminary rank list is completed, which is then
approved at the Residency Program Committee meeting. We usually offer between
sixty and seventy interviews.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Elective experiences were severely limited due to the
COVID-19 pandemic, we will not be considering electives in file review to
ensure file review is fair and equitable for all candidates.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Yes. Teamwork, ability to liaise with peers, faculty, multi-disciplinary teams.   
Collegiality |  Yes. Demonstrate shared values and goals with Calgary's program and work as a team.   
Communication skills |  Yes. Oral and written communication, ability to write clear, concise notes.   
Health advocacy |  Yes.   
Interest in the discipline |  Yes. Why are you interested in Obstetrics & Gynecology as a career?   
Interest in the program |  Yes. Why do you want to come to Calgary?   
Leadership skills |  Yes. Ability to lead, teach and mentor.   
Professionalism |  Yes. Ability to interact in person and online in a professional manner.   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Program Highlights**

This is a great program in a great city!  We have friendly and supportive
Residents, Staff, and Administration, who are genuinely invested in every
Resident's training, professional success, and personal well-being.

  * Early and vast amount of hands-on training in routine and complex high-risk Obstetrics, General Gynecology and Sub-Specialties
  * One large tertiary and three academic community hospital sites 
  * Over 90 engaged teaching staff with a wide variety of expertise and practice styles; and a formal Mentorship Coaching Program starting in PGY1
  * Excellent exposure to Maternal Fetal Medicine (3 blocks), REI/Pediatric and Adolescent Gynecology (3 blocks), Gyne-Oncology (3 blocks), Urogynecology (2 block rotation) and MIS (1 block + selectives).
  * Well-established and supervised Lead Resident Clinics at all four hospital sites allowing for excellent longitudinal independent practice and autonomy
  * Excellent opportunities to develop basic MIGS skills with opportunities for more advanced MIGS electives
  * Dedicated Ultrasound block in PGY1 year 
  * Courses, conferences and original resident research presentations are supported, such as: Surgical Skills Course, COMS, Western SOGC, ALARM, APOG Annual Meeting, SOGC ACM-SCC Basic Course, ICRE IRLS, Clara Christie Research Day and the PGY5 Obstetrics & Gynecology Review Course
  * Annual formal practice OSCEs for all Residents, and serial practice OSCE sessions for PGY4/5's, in addition to annual SOGC/MCQ exam
  * PGY1 Program and Surgical Foundations provide a supportive transitional environment into residency
  * Protected Friday morning faculty lead academic half days, that includes multi-disciplinary and inter-specialty perspectives
  * Faculty-lead Resident Journal Club sessions; weekly Tuesday and Friday Departmental O&G Rounds; weekly Monday MFM Rounds, REI lunch Rounds, weekly Thursday Gyne Oncology Tumor Board Rounds,  Quarterly M&M Rounds, Annual Research Day 
  * Protected Surgical Boot Camp in July for all surgical residents
  * Annual Resident Retreat weekend in Banff
  * Significant Resident representation and participation by Residents in their training Program with a supportive and responsive Residency Program Committee, Program Director and Program Administrator
  * Graded increase in responsibility with decrease in call commitments with increasing PGY years, allowing for protected study time prior to the Royal College Board Certification Examination
  * Regular Q4 months Competency Committee Review with PGY3 narrative review, to help early difficulties and individualization of a curriculum if necessary 
  * Monthly simulation training during protected time
  * Young and invested Residency Program Committee
  * Successful completion of Royal College Accreditation
  * Monthly resident run Journal Club
  * Joint faculty/resident social activities, including a hiking retreat

**What distinguishes Calgary from other cities?**

  * Close proximity to the Rocky Mountains where you can ski, snowboard, camp, hike, bike and climb to your heart's desire, which is close enough that you can be back for a night of call
  * The Calgary Stampede
  * Friendly and multicultural environment with a multitude of rivers, parks, pathways, festivals and restaurants
  * Growing city with >1,200,000 people
  * Chinooks in the winter
  * Great city to raise a family
  * Minimal traffic with lots of bike paths

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Program Curriculum**

This is a 5-year residency program.  The curriculum is outlined below: this
may be modified to allow a good learning experience for all residents.

**Program Organization PGY1**

The PGY1 year is intended to provide a broad background in clinical medicine.
The residents will rotate through Obstetrics & Gynecology, Internal Medicine,
Surgery, Emergency and a dedicated block to learn Ultrasound.

PGY1 / Surgical Foundations:

4 blocks CORE Obstetrics & Gynecology  

2 blocks General Surgery

2 blocks Obstetrics & Gynecology Elective  

1 block Junior Gynecology  

1 block Internal Medicine - Consultative

1 block Internal Medicine  

1 block Emergency

1 block Ultrasound related to Obstetrics & Gynecology

The PGY1 Program combines OB/GYN residents with PGY1's from different
specialties. This program allows PGY1's to gain experience as residents in a
supportive environment where staff physicians are accustomed to working with
junior residents.

**Program Organization PGY2, 3, 4, 5**

The training program is structured to expose the junior resident to a wide
range of general obstetrics & gynecology by spending approximately six months
in each of the areas of core obstetrics & gynecology.

 The third and fourth years of the program are designed to allow the resident
to be involved in each of the four major subspecialty areas and focuses on
consolidating surgical skills in preparation for more autonomous, but
supervised, functioning as Lead Resident. Elective time is available to allow
the resident to pursue a clinical or research interest; or to provide
opportunities for possible sub-specialty training.

The final year of the program includes rotations as Lead Resident with its
attendant responsibilities. In general, elective rotations outside the
specialty and off-site rotations will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis,
with no off-site rotations granted in the summer blocks, or Lead Resident
study blocks.

**YEAR 2:     **

1 block NICU - Consultative

1 block Maternal Mental Health and Transgender Medicine

2 blocks Junior Gynecology (RGH)

3 blocks Maternal Fetal Medicine

2 blocks Junior Obstetrics (FMC)

1 block Junior Gynecology (SHC) or Junior Gynecologic Oncology (TBCC)

3 blocks Junior Obstetrics (PLC)

**YEAR 3:    **

3 blocks Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility (ambulatory clinics and
OR, with clinics in Pediatric and Adolescent Gynecology and Endocrinology – at
the Alberta Children's Hospital and SHC.

2 blocks Junior Gynecology (ambulatory clinics at PLC)

2 blocks Rural Community Gynecology (OR and Community OB which may be in
Lethbridge, Medicine Hat or Whitehorse)

1 block Elective

1 block Selective (within Calgary, site assigned)

1 block ICU (assigned to either FMC, PLC or RGH)

7 blocks of Obstetrics at FMC over PGY 2, 3, 4

**YEAR 4:  **  

3 blocks Senior Gyne-Oncology (FMC)

3 blocks Senior Gynecology (PLC)

2 blocks Urogynecology (FMC)

1 blocks Senior OB (FMC); may be done in PGY5

4 blocks Lead Resident (FMC, PLC or RGH if no Snr OB)

**YEAR 5:  **  

3 to 6 blocks Lead Resident (Lead General O&G Clinic, Lead Colposcopy Clinic,
and Lead OR), for a total of 6 to 7 blocks of Lead Resident in total over PGY4
and PGY5

Administrative Senior Lead responsibility (Site Lead Resident, Site teaching
of Junior learners, mentorship, with daily/weekly/monthly site specific
scheduling of duties)

**Elective Content of Training (PGY3, 4 & 5) **

Electives may include further time in clinical obstetrics and gynecology.  All
residents are encouraged to consider further rotations spent at a senior level
on both of these services. Other related areas of clinical activity include
internal medicine, critical care medicine, surgery, urology, ultrasonography,
pathology, and/or neonatology.

The residents are encouraged to consider at least two months in an elective
rotation in an individual area of interest related to the specialty. This may
be within the University of Calgary or at a Royal College approved outside
facility (nationally or internationally).  Each resident may take up to six
blocks to pursue an area of clinical or basic research collaboration, within
their Elective/Selective time, with an identified preceptor and objectives
that have been approved by the Program Director and/or Residency Program
Committee, with a maximum of 3 blocks off the call schedule.

Global Health Initiative Electives are considered on a case-by-case basis and
approved by the Program Director/Residency Training Committee, based on their
perceived educational merit as it pertains to Obstetrics & Gynecology
training, in addition to safety, supervision and appropriate assessment of the
Resident as outlined by Program, PGME and RCPSC guidelines.

Combined elective time taken outside the University of Calgary is not to
exceed 3 blocks over a 5 year residency training program.

**Callback to Obstetrics and Gynecology Academic Sessions**

All residents (PGY1 to PGY5) attend the Departmental Grand Rounds from
September to June on Friday mornings, followed by faculty-taught academic half
day sessions. There is a two-and-a-half year curriculum for the topics covered
to incorporate all the Royal College Objectives of Training.  Simulation
sessions are embedded with the academic half days and occur monthly.

In the summer months, the Senior Residents prepare topics that are
specifically geared towards helping Junior Residents become more comfortable
with commonly encountered issues and emergencies in OB/GYN (e.g. management of
post-partum hemorrhage).  There are also introductory orientation sessions
(electronic patient charting system, Introduction to CBD, etc.) and Surgical
Foundations sessions geared towards Junior Residents.

**Rounds**

Tuesday Morning Rounds

On Tuesday mornings (September to June), OB/GYN residents provide short
presentations on topics in OB/GYN to their fellow residents and faculty
members of the department.  These sessions provide a unique opportunity early
in residency to gain experience with preparing and presenting topics to large
groups.  Each resident (including PGY1s) is responsible for one presentation
in each academic year.

Departmental Grand Rounds

All residents are responsible for presenting at least one Grand Round (usually
in PGY5). You may be asked to participate in Quality Improvement or Morbidity
and Mortality Rounds.  Departmental Rounds occur every Friday morning from
September to June.

All rounds are Telehealth linked from Foothills Medical Centre to each of the
community sites.

**Attendance Rounds/Half Day**

The resident is expected to attend all Grand Rounds unless they are away
(vacation/conference/LOA) and Friday morning Academic Half Day sessions unless
they are post-call, away or are a Lead Resident granted a special 'pass' to
participate in a clinical case (maximum 3 passes in PGY5). The resident will
also attend Research Day, the Residency Program Retreat in June and sit the
annual SOGC MCQ examination and the in-house OSCE examination. Attendance is
mandatory for all educational events where extender coverage is provided
(Simulations, Research Day, OSCE and Resident Retreat).

**Research Opportunities  **

It is expected that each resident will be involved in at least one research
project during residency and have presented at the annual Research Day once.
It is strongly encouraged that a research project is written in entirety and
submitted for publication.  The project may take the form of a chart audit
review, a case report and review of the literature, a clinical trial and/or a
bench research project.  Presentation at a national or international meeting
is also encouraged and appropriate funding is available to support such
endeavors.

**Call**

Call is graded according to year with PGY5's doing the least and PGY1's and
PGY2's doing the most.  All call requirements however, follow PARA guidelines.
The Program has developed a modified restricted resident duty hour call model
which allows junior residents to not have to work more than 16 hours
consecutively within a 24 hour period (midnight to midnight).  This innovative
modification has particularly allowed more Junior Residents the flexibility of
having time away from labour and delivery, for the morning before they start
call.  This time can be spent away in any way that the resident wishes,
allowing time for overall perception of improved resident well-being.

* * *

# Training Sites

FOOTHILLS MEDICAL CENTRE (FMC)

1403 29th Street NW

Calgary, AB T2N 2T9



PETER LOUGHEED CENTRE (PLC)

3500  26th Avenue NE

Calgary, AB T1Y 6J4



ROCKYVIEW GENERAL HOSPITAL (RGH)

7007  14th Street SW

Calgary, AB T2V 1P9



SOUTH HEALTH CAMPUS (SHC)

4448 Front Street SE

Calgary, AB T3M 1M4



ALBERTA CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL

28 Oki Drive NW

Calgary, AB T3B 6A8



FOR ROTATIONS IN PGY3/4

CHINOOK REGIONAL HOSPITAL

LETHBRIDGE



MEDICINE HAT REGIONAL HOSPITAL

MEDICINE HAT



WHITEHORSE GENERAL HOSPITAL

YUKON

* * *

# Additional Information

**What to Read and When**

It is important to develop good study habits early in your residency training.
Time should be set aside each week and goals carefully outlined. During the
first two years of clinical training you should select a few good basic
textbooks - examples of which are listed below. It will be confusing to you if
you immediately launch into the journals, thus getting involved in controversy
before a basic foundation of knowledge has been established. Remember to
review the CREOG objectives and Basic Science Booklets as well as the rotation
specific Goals and Objectives Booklet we provide.

Reviews and journals will play a more important part in your education in the
last two years of training.

Suggested textbooks are listed below, but check with senior residents, as
these can change from year to year.

**Textbooks - Obstetrics Recommended Resident Year**

-Gabbe - Obstetrics-Normal & Abnormal Pregnancies PGY1 - PGY5

-Clinical Obstetrics & Gynecology (Clinics) PGY3 - PGY5

-Essential Management of Obstetrical Emergencies - Baskett PGY1 - PGY5

-Human Labor - Oxorm PGY1 - PGY2

-Williams Obstetrics PGY1 - PGY5

-Maternal Fetal Medicine - Creasy and Resnik PGY3 - PGY5

-Medical Disorders in Pregnancy - Burrows PGY3 - PGY5

-Obstetric Ultrasound - How Why and When - PGY3

**Textbooks - Gynecology**

-Novaks Textbook of Gynecology PGY1 - PGY5

-Gynecology: Princples & Practice - Kistner PGY1 - PGY5

-Principles and Practices of Clinical Gynecology-Kase & Weingold PGY1 - PGY5

-Operative Gynecology - Telinde PGY2 - PGY5

-Novaks Pathology - Reference PGY3 - PGY4

-Clinical Gynecologic Oncology - Disaia & Creasman PGY4 - PGY5

-Clinical Gyn Endocrinology & Infertility - Speroff PGY4 - PGY5

**Journals**

All residents should become junior members of the American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) and the Society of Obstetricians and
Gynecologists of Canada (SOGC) and thereby receive the monthly Obstetrics and
Gynecology Journals and SOGC Journal. Other journals that should be reviewed
are the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology and the British Journal
of Obstetrics and Gynecology. Clinics of North America (Saunders) and Clinical
Obstetrics and Gynecology (Lippincott) contain very useful and current review
articles, and are published four times per year. It is advisable to become
familiar with these journals and clinical reviews, and develop a regular
system of reading at least one periodical.

* * *

# FAQ

PLEASE NOTE THAT THE FOLLOWING LIFE SUPPORT COURSES MUST BE COMPLETED PRIOR TO
THE COMMENCEMENT OF RESIDENCY

BLS

ACLS

ATLS (must be completed within the first year of residency - Surgical
Foundations requirement)

ALARM must be completed in the first block of residency - this is arranged for
you by the program.  

The cost of the courses will be reimbursed by Alberta Health Services after
commencement of residency.



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26793?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26793