#  Queen’s University - Family Medicine - Belleville - Quinte

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on February 19, 2025

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 6

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Kim Curtin  

Address Family Medicine  
Belleville-Quinte Site  
145 Station St. Unit 204  
Belleville, Ontario, K8N 2S9  

Work  613-771-3403

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Queen's University Department of Family Medicine
](https://familymedicine.queensu.ca/academics)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Kaci Carter

Title: Belleville-Quinte Site Director

Email: k.carter@queensu.ca

Phone: 613-771-3403

  

Name: Jessica Hughson

Title: Belleville-Quinte Program Site Coordinator

Email: jessica.hughson@queensu.ca

Phone: 613-771-3403

  

Name: Mary Mejia

Title: Program and Events Coordinator

Email: DFM-carms@queensu.ca

Phone: 613-533-6000 ext 78038

  

* * *

# Important Information

Your application to the Queen's Family Medicine Residency Program will be
centrally processed for all four training sites: Kingston-1000 Islands,
Belleville-Quinte, Peterborough-Kawartha, and Queen's-Bowmanville-Oshawa-
Lakeridge. This process means that you will only have one interview, with
results communicated to each site you have applied to. You must make a
separate application to each site you are interested in. Please _include all
required_  documentation in each application and submit the same documentation
to each site. You will have the opportunity to individually rank each site you
are interested in.

Family Medicine at Queen's is a fully accredited program with strong oversight
and communication across all four sites. Each site has a Site Director,
Curriculum Lead, Assessment Lead, Research and Informatics Lead, Faculty
Development Lead and a Program Coordinator to ensure there is strong
collaboration and communication across the sites.

**Note to Couples:**

You are welcome to indicate if you are applying to us as a "couple match". We
will make every attempt to schedule you and your partner for clinical
rotations/experiences that will allow you to have time together.

**EDIIA Institutional Statement:**

The goal of resident selection is to identify trainees likely to succeed both
in training and, once out in practice, in meeting the health care needs of
patients and Canadian society.  We know that having a physician workforce that
reflects the demographics of the patients that they serve improves health care
outcomes.  There are many populations within Canada under-represented in
medicine (UIM) with a paucity of health care practitioners who are Black,
Indigenous, Persons of Colour, 2SLGBTQ+, from lower socioeconomic backgrounds
and/or with disabilities, and other under-represented in medicine (UIM)
groups. Diversity within training programs has also been shown to improve
training environments.  Queen’s University PGME is strongly committed to
diversity and inclusion within its community for these reasons as well as
being part of the solution to address historic and contemporary inequities.

**Note to First Nation, Inuit and/or Métis  applicants:**

At the present time, CaRMS does not have a self-identification process for
First Nation, Inuit and/or Métis applicants. The Queen's Department of Family
Medicine is committed to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission’s Calls to
Action on Health. For this reason, we offer any First Nation, Inuit and/or
Métis applicants to our residency program the opportunity to self-identify in
their personal letter during the application process. We also invite First
Nation, Inuit and/or Métis applicants offered interviews to self-identify when
selecting interview dates. This information helps us identify ways in which
the residency program can connect First Nation, Inuit and/or Métis applicants
to specific resources and supports.

**Equity and diversity**

We welcome diversity among our trainees and seek to foster an environment that
is welcoming to all, regardless of gender identity, race, religion, or sexual
orientation.

We are committed to advancing equitable and inclusive practices.  Please refer
to the [PGME website](https://meds.queensu.ca/academics/postgraduate/faculty-
staff/applicant-selection) for additional information / resources including
[QHS EDIIA Initiatives](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi) and [EDIIA
statements](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi/accessibility-
statements) (Indigenous Land Acknowledgement, Anti-Discrimination Statement,
Inclusion Statement, and Statement on Social Accountability)

**FMProC Details:**

All applicants (CMG and IMGs) to ALL Canadian Family Medicine Programs, in the
1st and 2nd rounds of the CaRMS cycle, are required to sit an online
Situational Judgement Test (SJT), called “FMProC” (Family Medicine
Professional Choices).

Registration window for first round:

  * Registration opens September 11th at 12 noon ET and closes on November 7th at 10AM ET. If you register before October 23rd, 2024, you will receive the test link on or before October 28th, which can be accessed once the test window opens. If you register after October 23rd, you will receive the test link within two business days.
  * Applicants should register early and take the test early during the dates posted.
  * First Round testing window is open from October 28, 2024, 8AM ET to November 11, 2024, 10AM ET.

**Requests to register or to sit the test outside of the posted deadlines
_will not be considered_. All deadlines are final. It is your responsibility
to review the deadlines carefully.**

To register and ﬁnd out more about the test please go to
[fmproc.com](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.fmproc.com%2F&data=05%7C02%7Ckim.wallace%40queensu.ca%7C1c1691b7f7264e0b6ebc08dcd7115566%7Cd61ecb3b38b142d582c4efb2838b925c%7C1%7C0%7C638621716649322963%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=NO06Y1RNsuzKpyL2CWb%2FYwK2AluDYneWEdBPsMQzmn4%3D&reserved=0).
All test related updates will be posted on the website.

Your FMProC score will be submitted to CaRMS and automatically uploaded into
your individual applicant account. You will receive an email notification from
CaRMS when the FMProC score has been uploaded into your account. Your FMProC
score will be automatically assigned to family medicine programs that you
apply to through CaRMs.

** **

** **

** **

**COVID-19 vaccination requirements:**

Please refer to the 'Restrictions' section of the [Ontario eligibility
criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/) for messaging regarding COVID-19 vaccination requirements.

**Gaps in Training, Remediation, or Professionalism issues**

Please address any gaps in training, remediation, or professionalism issues in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph at the end of your personal
letter titled Transcript Addendum. This will not count towards your maximum
word count.



* * *

# Return of Service

If you have a ROS agreement in another province please ensure you aware of the
commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

**FMProC Information**  

All applicants (CMG and IMGs) to our Family Medicine Program, in the 1st
**and**  2nd rounds of the CaRMS cycle, are required to sit a new online
Situational Judgement Test (SJT), called “FM-ProC” (Family Medicine
Professional Choices).

For the 2025 residency selection cycle ALL FM residency programs in Canada
require applicants to sit FMProC for those applying in both rounds of CaRMS.
To support this we provide the test with the following registration and test
window dates:  
  
**1st round  
Registration:  
**Opens 11th September @ noon ET.  
**Closes 7th November @ 10 AM ET.**  
We strongly advise you not to leave registration till the last minute.  
  
**Test Window:**  
Opens 28th October @ 8 AM ET.  
**Closes 11th November @ 10 AM ET.  
  
**ALL 18 FM Residency Programs require the FMProC for both rounds of the
upcoming CaRMS cycle, but you only need to register, pay for, and sit the
test, once.

To register and ﬁnd out more about the test please go to
[fmproc.com](fmproc.com). All test related updates will be posted on the
website.

**  
**THESE DEADLINES ARE FINAL AND NO REQUEST FOR LATE REGISTRATION OR LATE
SITTING OF THE TEST WILL BE CONSIDERED****



Please note that due to the volume of applications our program receives we are
not able to provide individual feedback to applicants who are not successful
in the match.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Examinations

Required

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Reference letters using the Family Medicine Structured Reference Letter
submitted through CaRMS will be the only form of reference letters accepted.

Three (3) references are required, at least one of which should be from a
Canadian Family Physician.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.

  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

The personal letter is a crucial part of your CaRMS application. Your letter
should be approximately 500 words and should focus on you as an individual,
and your interest in Family Medicine. Please read the description of our
program and our goals on our
[website](https://familymedicine.queensu.ca/academics). In your personal
letter, indicate why you feel that Queen's Family Medicine Program would be a
good match for you. We are particularly interested in your life experiences
and goals that you feel make you an excellent candidate for our program.
Please include your personal contact information in your letter (e.g. address,
email, phone etc.).

Custom Résumé / CV

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

**Proof of Medical Diploma (MD)**

Documents that are not in English must be accompanied by a notarized
translation. Students applying in the last year of medical school will need to
submit their most recent marks/transcripts, and will need to provide proof of
their MD to CPSO prior to the start of residency training.

Optional - will be reviewed

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Photograph will be used for memory aid/recall purposes only.

Name Change

If any of your documents bear a name different from the one you are currently
using, please provide official proof of your change of name.

Abstract/Publications

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Your application will be reviewed in December 2024\. You will be notified by
email if you have been selected for an interview. This email will contain
information about how to schedule your interview.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 28, 2025
  * January 30, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interview Dates: Tuesday, January 21, 2025,
Thursday, January 23, 2025, Tuesday, January 28, 2025 and Thursday, January
30, 2025  Please note: All interviews will be in a virtual format this year.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: We believe strongly in the interview
process. The interview is as much for you to learn about us as it is for us to
learn about you. We will be hosting all interviews over Zoom. If needed,
please let us know how we can best accommodate you. We will host an
information session with our Program Director, Site Directors, Enhanced Skills
Program Director, and current residents at the beginning of the interview
period. This session provides an overview of our program, and information
about our amazing learning experiences, teaching sites and learning resources.
There will be ample opportunity to have your questions answered. There is no
examination component to the interview. We look forward to meeting you
virtually!  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We seek mature, compassionate, enthusiastic individuals with a broad range of
life experiences who are committed to practicing the breadth of Family
Medicine and who will be actively engaged in their learning and with the
program.

## Program goals

In keeping with our motto "Train at Queen's. Work Anywhere", Queen's trains
highly competent generalist family physicians who are equipped to work
anywhere in Canada and provide skilled medical care to their communities.
While adhering to the College of Family Physicians of Canada's competency-
based "Triple C" Curriculum (Comprehensive learning, Continuity of patient
care, curriculum and supervision, and Family Medicine centered education) and
leveraging community specific resources, each of our training sites fully
equips future family medicine physicians to be leaders, scholars, and
clinicians who will serve and lead in the rapidly changing Canadian healthcare
environment.

## Selection process goals

Our selection process seeks to identify and recruit future physicians who have
demonstrated alignment with our program goals. We are interested in applicants
who clearly excel in all CanMEDS roles with particular attention to a strong
academic record, communication skills, and collaboration skills. We also seek
to select those applicants who will be engaged in the ongoing improvement of
our program.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our file review team consists of Queen's faculty
members.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 601 +  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Research, awards, electives, employment, and extracurriculars   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We look for understanding and interest in family medicine   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  FMProC score   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Well-balanced applicants who have demonstrated interests outside of medicine   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Recent leadership successes are an asset   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic performance, endorsements of interpersonal and professional qualities   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  An interest in Family Medicine and Queen's   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Well-rounded applicants skilled in all CanMEDS roles and interested in Family Medicine   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research experience and publications are an asset but not a requirement   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  High scholarly performance. Absences from training must be noted and clearly explained your personal letter   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives
and realize the opportunities to do these are limited.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We are looking for evidence of interest and understanding of Family Medicine.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Communication style, review of inter-professional collaborative experiences   
Collegiality |  Communication style and demeanour   
Communication skills |  Clear and concise style   
Health advocacy |  Demonstration of advocacy is an asset   
Interest in the discipline |  Clear interest in primary care   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest in the Queen's Family Medicine Program   
Leadership skills |  Any aspect of the LEADS framework may be explored during the interview   
Professionalism |  Communication, demeanour, discussion and demonstration of professional conduct   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Queen’s University Family Medicine is a highly regarded longstanding program
(established in 1972). Our two-year program is based on the College of Family
Physicians of Canada competency-based “Triple C” Curriculum (Comprehensive
learning; Continuity of patient care, curriculum, and supervision; and family
medicine-centred education). The program consists of core family medicine
experiences complemented by experiences in other specialties relevant to
family medicine.

In 2010, our program expanded from a single site in Kingston to three
different sites across southeastern Ontario (Kingston-1000 Islands,
Belleville-Quinte, and Peterborough-Kawartha). In 2012, a fourth site
(Queen's-Bowmanville-Oshawa-Lakeridge) was added. Our motto is, “Train at
Queen’s. Work Anywhere.” This is demonstrated by our graduates practising all
over Canada, from remote and rural areas to large inner-city practices. Using
centrally set objectives and assessment standards, all of our four vibrant
sites use their unique local strengths and resources to deliver exceptional
programs. Residents match to and train at one of our four sites, with all the
sites coming together three or four times a year for innovative teaching
sessions and social events. Queen’s Family Medicine has twice earned the
Professional Association of Residents of Ontario (PARO) [Residency Program
Excellence Award](https://myparo.ca/paro-awards/#residency-program-excellence-
award), making us the only program to win this prestigious recognition more
than once. Further, we are the only family medicine program in the province to
receive this award in its 15-year history. In addition to our two wins, we
have been nominated for this award in five other years, from 2012 to 2023
inclusive. We were also honoured to receive the 2014 [Keith
Award](https://www.srpc.ca/past-winners), given to the program with the
greatest number of residents practising in rural communities. Make sure to
explore our four program sites on our
[website](https://familymedicine.queensu.ca/academics)!

Our postgraduate program typically includes boot camp (an introductory block
to residency that residents endorse as setting a great foundation for their
training); a robust global health curriculum; an annual wilderness retreat;
innovative simulation courses (including our highly regarded Nightmares FM
course); international electives; opportunities to teach and engage in
research; and experiences in rural and remote community hospitals (including
Moose Factory, Ontario, and the Falkland Islands). Additionally, we have many
enhanced skills programs.

**Belleville-Quinte Program Highlights**

  * Family medicine-centred two-year integrated, horizontal “Triple C” Curriculum (Comprehensive learning, Continuity of learning, and family medicine-Centred education)
  * An average of two full days in family medicine clinics each week with a primary preceptor, alongside horizontal experiences in other disciplines relevant to family medicine
  * Eight weeks of rural community family medicine (locations could include Picton, Bancroft, and any other Queen's-approved communities)
  * Four weeks of internal medicine (ICU or ward) taken in one-week hospitalist blocks also in longitudinal fashion with family medicine-friendly preceptors
  * Eight weeks of electives taken as four in PGY1 and four in PGY2
  * Great exposure to hospitalist, house calls, LTC, procedures, palliative care, leadership, and practice management

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**PGY1**

On average, two days/week of family medicine in your core FM clinic where you
will develop and follow a small roster of patients for which you are the MRR
(“Most Responsible Resident”)

Integrated with core family medicine are the following horizontal experiences:

  * Wednesday afternoon protected academic teaching time
  * Family medicine ward, hospitalist and on-call at Belleville General Hospital, which includes acute medicine, ACE unit, rehab and acute stroke care
  * Horizontal days of exposure including
    * pediatric clinics
    * obstetrics and gynecology clinics and on-call
    * lumps, bumps, and minor procedure clinics
    * emergency medicine at several local hospitals of varying size and acuity
    * cardiology, gastroenterology, and other subspecialty clinics as available
    * behavioural medicine in a community office setting
    * hospitalist (family physician-led)
    * palliative care
    * optional coroner experiences
    * occupational health
    * MAID
    * allied health experiences in INR clinic, memory clinic, dietitian, respiratory program, CBT, counselling, and health navigation
  * Four weeks of internal medicine as ward, subspecialty outpatient or ICU; horizontal in one-week increments
  * Four weeks of electives taken generally as a block in a discipline and community of your choosing

**PGY2**

  * On average, two days/week of family medicine in a community practice with your primary preceptor ensure continuity of patient care. This is a different practice from PGY1.
  * Eight weeks of rural family medicine outside of Belleville in Picton, Bancroft, Brighton, or any other Queen’s-approved rural community
  * Four weeks of electives
  * Ongoing program refinement of the horizontal curriculum to meet your learning and career goals

**What Makes Belleville-Quinte Special?**

Training at our Belleville-Quinte site means you will be part of a close-knit
group of residents (average, 16) working with community family medicine
preceptors with a wide range of practice styles and significant involvement in
our local hospital department of family medicine. We are fortunate to have the
Belleville Queen's University Family Medicine Centre, a 12,000-square foot
facility featuring 22 patient rooms, a procedure room, and office/lounge space
for physicians and residents. The office/lounge space serves as the residency
hub for training, offering resident facilities, a large conference room with
video-conferencing capabilities, and the site’s administrative offices.
Physician offices are either in the Family Medicine Centre or in surrounding
clinics in central Belleville.

The recently expanded Quinte Health Care Belleville Hospital site is a 192-bed
facility providing regional health care to the city of Belleville and
surrounding areas including Picton, Trenton, and Bancroft.  
  
You will also benefit from full electronic access to Queen’s University’s
libraries, its sim lab, and all-site days provided for residents of the
Queen’s program.

* * *

# Training Sites

Belleville, located on the shores of the Bay of Quinte, is an ideal community
for your family medicine residency training. The city's historic downtown is
home to an eclectic mix of shops, restaurants, boutiques, theatre, and a
popular farmers market. Belleville is known for its expansive waterfront,
providing incredible opportunities for sailboats, pleasure craft, and anglers
alike. Its location is also ideal for exploring Prince Edward County, just
across the Bay of Quinte. Here, just a 20-minute drive from the city, you will
find Sandbanks Provincial Park, one of the most beautiful parks in Ontario
with its long, sandy beaches and excellent campground facilities. In the
County, you can also explore the numerous wineries and galleries that surround
the picturesque towns of Picton, Bloomfield, and Wellington. The area also
features Lake on the Mountain, a stunning natural lake 200 feet above the Bay
of Quinte with no rivers flowing in or out of its waters.

Belleville features some of the best golf in Ontario with 19 courses in the
area, several located right in town. The city's waterfront is very active with
multiple paths for walking, cycling, and monthly festivals throughout the
summer. If you enjoy history, the downtown core has several impressive
buildings including the majestic city hall and Glanmore National Historic
Site.

Belleville has a diverse economy, with major employers offering a wide variety
of employment opportunities. There are many shopping opportunities, from the
quaint, historic downtown to the Quinte Mall and large big-box retail —
something for everyone. There is daily VIA Rail service to Toronto, Ottawa,
and Montreal, which is ideal for pursuing CME and visiting friends and family.

Loyalist College provides a great opportunity for lifelong learning, skill
development, and the pursuit of hobbies and cultural experiences. The
elementary and secondary school options include public, separate, and private
schools in the city.

The region also features live theatre at the Belleville Theatre Guild, The
Regent Theatre in Picton, and the nearby Stirling Festival Theatre.
Belleville's Empire Theatre offers live music, theatre, and stage productions
regularly featuring world-class artists. Westben in Campbellford and the
Quinte Symphony offer the perfect solution for those who enjoy classical
music. Summer events include a jazz festival, outdoor summer theatre, cultural
festivals, and the ever-popular rib fest.

If you enjoy hiking or biking, the Quinte region offers several excellent
trails. Most are located in one of the numerous conservation areas ready for
you to explore including Sidney, Quinte, Macaulay Mountain, and Presqu'ile.
Belleville's paved waterfront trail is ideal for rollerblading or simply
taking a stroll. Cycling is a favourite activity for many resident cohorts.

Belleville offers both the amenities of a larger city and the charm of a
smaller town. It is the ideal community for residents to find an excellent
work-life balance, and we hope you will take time to learn more about our
community.

[belleville.ca](https://belleville.ca/)

For more information on the Belleville-Quinte program, please check out our
[website](https://familymedicine.queensu.ca/academics/program-
sites/belleville-quinte).

* * *

# Additional Information

Comprehensive learning means we will guide you as you become proficient in the
full scope of family medicine: office and community-based care, inpatient
care, emergency medicine, chronic care, obstetrics, and the psychosocial
aspects of medicine that affect all age groups. With the help of your academic
advisor, your learning needs are identified and adjusted three times a year
over the course of your training.

Continuity of patient care means we prioritize giving you opportunities to
follow patients in your family medicine clinics, hospitals, and long-term care
facilities. Continuity of supervision means you will have a designated primary
preceptor during each core family medicine placement and you will have one
academic advisor assigned for the duration of your residency. Continuity of
curriculum means each of your experiences will build upon the others as you
develop into a fully proficient and independent family physician. You will
also receive ACLS, ALARM, and NRP training.

During your first year, you will participate in our ‘Nightmares FM’ course,
which is unique to Queen’s and provides residents with a high level of code
and pre-code training. The course helps prepare you for your worst nightmares
while on call. You could be asked to resuscitate a simulated patient in a mock
ER, ward, or office setting. At the start of your first year you will
participate in two full days of Nightmares boot camp, followed by three half-
day follow-up sessions throughout the year to consolidate your skills.

Family medicine-centred education means you are always learning through the
lens of family medicine. You will work in many different clinical settings
with other family physicians and specialist colleagues who are enthusiastic
about family medicine learners.

Over your two years, you will complete a resident project. Options for the
project include: critical review, advocacy project, research project, ethics
project, and IT project — this culminating in either a poster or oral
presentation at our annual Primary Care Research Day. During your first year,
you will also complete a quality-improvement project within your family
medicine practice.

While each training site develops its own individual schedule, all our staff
work diligently to ensure your needs as a learner and as an individual are
met. As a resident, you will receive vacation time each year and educational
leave to attend conferences. Parental leave can easily be arranged, and if you
and your partner are both training at the same site, we will strive to ensure
your schedules are complementary. You will receive access to multiple point-
of-care tools as well as all other university resources. You will also be
entitled to a resident allowance that can be used to purchase learning
resources and subscriptions or to attend conferences. You will have a primary
clinical preceptor, an academic advisor, and a faculty advocate who are
available for discussion and assistance and to help guide you in your
competency development.

You will also have the opportunity to complete elective placements during your
residency. We encourage residents to complete electives that complement their
learning or enhance their understanding of an aspect of family medicine.
Residents may also target their electives towards global health, either by
going abroad or by working with a vulnerable population in Canada. You will
work with your academic advisor to determine your personal electives plan.

The Queen’s Department of Family Medicine offers a wide variety of enhanced
skills programs in the following areas: emergency medicine, anesthesia, global
health, women's health, care of the elderly, Indigenous health, enhanced/rural
skills, palliative care, and care of the developmentally disabled. These
programs are based out of our Kingston & 1000 Islands site, however, learners
complete placements in a variety of locations. These enhanced skills programs
are open equally to applications from residents from all sites.

Queen's offers a flexible program in family medicine delivered at four
different sites across South Eastern Ontario (Kingston & 1000 Islands,
Belleville-Quinte, Peterborough-Kawartha, and Queen's-Bowmanville-Oshawa-
Lakeridge). Each site covers the same program objectives but has unique
curricula. Make sure you explore our four program descriptions or [visit our
website](https://familymedicine.queensu.ca/academics). Our postgraduate
program includes a robust global health curriculum, an annual wilderness
retreat, international electives, opportunities to teach and engage in
research, and experiences in rural and remote community hospitals (including
Moose Factory, Ontario).

At Queen's, we respect you as an adult learner. We provide a program with many
diverse opportunities and resources to help you in your development as a
family physician.

Train at Queen's. Work Anywhere!

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26472?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26472