#  McMaster University - Ophthalmology - Hamilton

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on October 22, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Mark Fava  

Address Ophthalmology  
St. Joseph's Centre for Ambulatory Health Services  
2757 King Street East, Room 2329  
Hamilton, Ontario, L8G 5E4  

Work  905 573 7777 ext 38260

905 573 4810

Websites of Interest [ Department of Surgery
](https://surgery.mcmaster.ca/divisions/ophthalmology/education/overview)  
[ McMaster Ophthalmology
](https://surgery.mcmaster.ca/divisions/ophthalmology)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Enitan Sogbesan

Title: Program Director

Email: sogbese@mcmaster.ca

Phone: 905 573 7777 x 38260

  

Name: Olivia Lorenc

Title: Program Administrator

Email: ophthed@mcmaster.ca

Phone: 905 573 7777 ext 38260

  

* * *

# Important Information

**All candidates must meet the Ontario Criteria of Eligibility.**

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/).  It is important to review the
requirements carefully.

To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit:
<https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/>



**MCCQE (Medical Council of Canada qualifying examination) Part 1 results** :

Trainees will be required to disclose their MCCQE Part 1 examination results
**if taken** , upon entry into any of the McMaster University's training
programs. **Please note that the MCCQE Part 1 is  not a requirement to begin
residency.** The purpose of this disclosure is to allow for resources to be
provided to the few residents who would benefit from extra support early in
their residency in an effort to maximize their success.

**Failure to meet or provide proof of any of the stated requirements may
result in an applicant’s file not being reviewed or removed from the Rank
Order List.**



**McMaster University EDIIA Focus**

McMaster has a vision to achieve international distinction for creativity,
innovation and excellence as a research-intensive, student-centred university.
In committing to that vision, we are also focused on the promotion of
inclusive excellence, recognizing the critical role that diversity of
identity, background and perspective play in harnessing creativity and
innovation, and the importance of building inclusive and collegial teams
within our community.

McMaster strives to support all members of our community in feeling valued and
respected for their contributions to our shared mission and goals. Our goals
and aspirations to be a welcoming and inclusive community that prizes respect,
collaboration and diversity is a collective responsibility and can only be
achieved with the commitment and support of the entire community.

We welcome diversity among our trainees and seek to foster an environment that
is welcoming to all, regardless of gender identity, race, religion, or sexual
orientation.



**Gaps in Training, Remediation, or Professionalism issues**

Please address any gaps in training, remediation, or professionalism issues in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count.

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.





* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

We recommend getting reference letters from faculty members who know you well
and who can attest to your clinical and interpersonal skills in a meaningful
way. If possible, one or more reference letters from a faculty member from
Ophthalmology is helpful, but not required. Only the first three letters on
file will be reviewed. Referees should be able to attest to interest and
proficiency in the specialty of ophthalmology and provide comments on
interpersonal and organizational skills, medical skills, clinical judgement,
reliability and manual dexterity.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Custom Résumé / CV

Please include a custom CV as part of the application package.  This will
summarize your education, academic, volunteer, and research activities to
date.  It may also include your general interests and hobbies.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  400

Maximum :  500

  

A personal letter required must be submitted (not to exceed 500 words). Your
autobiographical letter should answer the following questions:

1\. Why you have chosen Ophthalmology as your professional career?

2\. What experiences in your past have led you to choose this specialty?

3\. What personal attributes you possess that fit you for this career?

Your personal letter should provide the selection committee insight in to why
you are a well-suited candidate for ophthalmology and for McMaster
Ophthalmology Program in particular. This is an opportunity for the candidate
to demonstrate who they are and what they hope to accomplish in a career in
ophthalmology.

Ophthalmological Report

An ophthalmologist’s or an optometrist report that indicates the candidate's
best corrected visual acuity including corrective prescription documented,
stereopsis, colour vision and any other relevant details from a general ocular
assessment is required.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed.

Documents that are not in English must be accompanied by a notarized
translation. Students applying in the last year of medical school will need to
submit their most recent marks/transcripts, and will need to provide proof of
their MD to CPSO prior to the start of residency training.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Reference letters from the institution/ discipline will not be required for
consideration of interview.

Candidates files are reviewed during the month of December and approximately
18-24 candidates are 'short-listed' for an interview based on their interest
and aptitude in ophthalmology, as well as their academic record and
interpersonal skills.

'Short-listed' candidates will be offered interviews, by email, by early
January.

Candidates not receiving an interview will also be notified, by email, by
early January.



Additional training:  
Additional training experiences above and beyond the traditional medical
school curriculum will be considered in a manner that upholds and respects the
principles of fairness, equity, and professionalism in the application,
selection, and matching process. Training experiences that fall outside of the
postgraduate medical education will be evaluated using existing institutional
rubrics specific to each program, and weighted in a manner that encourages
equity among all applicant.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 29, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held virtually on
Microsoft Teams or Zoom on Wednesday, Janaury 29th 2025.  
  
Applicants will be assigned a time to log-in for their interviews in advance  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Formal interviews will be granted to
candidates shortlisted after review of completed applications and relevant
documents by the Residency Education Selection Committee using the selection
criteria. The Ophthalmology Residency Office will contact candidates who are
selected for an interview.The individuals selected will recieve further
emailed information regarding the process in early January. Three panels of
2-3 interviewers will interview each candidate for a total of approximately 60
minutes. All panels include a resident in the program and teaching staff.  
  
Virtual interviews will be program initiated. Detailed instructions on
interview date, times, process and technological requirements will be provided
closer to the date of interviews. Applicants will be given an opportunity to
test their ability to properly connect, use the virtual interview platform,
and problem-solve any technological issues in the days prior to their
interview.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

\- A strong academic performance record

\- Excellent communication and interpersonal skills

\- Maturity, empathy, and excellent work habits

\- Candidates with an interest and proven experience in research, both in
basic science and clinical research are encouraged to apply

\- Publication on any topic (any scientific paper)

\- Proven interest in ophthalmology

\- Broad range of extracurricular activities and leadership qualities.



## Program goals

The McMaster Ophthalmology Residency Program seeks to attract a diverse group
of individuals who are committed to the practice of ophthalmology and using
the knowledge and skills acquired to provide first class, excellent eye care
and be a future leader in our field. The program offers innovative learning
opportunities and resources to foster outstanding residency education and
development that allows residents to pursue their specific professional
development interests and passions that meet their career goals in a collegial
environment. Collaboration is central to our process of program advancement.

## Selection process goals

A strong academic performance record with excellent communication and
interpersonal skills. Someone who exhibits maturity, empathy, and excellent
work habits. Candidates with an interest and proven experience in research,
both in basic science and clinical research are encouraged to apply.
Applicants with publication on any topic (any scientific paper) along with a
proven interest in ophthalmology. Candidates should be well rounded with broad
range of extracurricular activities, interests, be a team player, fit the
collegial culture that exists in the program, and possess** ** leadership
qualities in the setting of multiple competing demands.

## File review process

Review team composition : All files are reviewed by at least two team groups
comprising residents and teaching staff in the program.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Summarizes the candidates academic and extra-curricular achievements   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Applicants completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Review performance on exams.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Interests beyond academics that show interest in self-development and enhance the candidates life skills and maturity   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Academic and extra-curricular involvement that enhances and demonstrates their skills as a leader.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic, professional conduct, narrative of student's performance on core rotations   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Motivation and interest to dedicate their career to our field.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Interest and proficiency in the specialty, interpersonal/organizational skills, clinical judgement.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Demonstrate interest and experience in research.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance and success.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Previously completed broad range of electives including in our discipline and
learning experiences in ophthalmology that allows informed decision making
will be considered. We review student's elective experiences looking at the
types of electives they performed and the location of their electives to get a
sense of their overall priorities. We encourage students to get exposure in
the various areas of their interest in medicine to ensure they are competitive
to other specialties as well.

We understand the various systematic challenges and barriers that candidates
face to arrange and complete electives and would like to reassure candidates
that a lack of elective activity will not negatively impact the application to
our program.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  Video conferencing will be used for all interviews; details to
follow.  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due
to weather, technology failure or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work effectively with all members of the health care team   
Collegiality |  Establish and maintain positive relationships with other colleagues in the health care team   
Communication skills |  Active listening and good verbal communication that facilitates sharing important information   
Health advocacy |  Responds to an individual patient’s health needs by advocating for the patient   
Interest in the discipline |  Experience in our field such that they know what to expect in the ophthalmology training and career   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrates some knowledge of the unique aspects of McMaster Ophthalmology program   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrates experience that prepared them to take responsibility for leading the delivery of care   
Professionalism |  High personal standards of behaviour, personal health and high ethical standards in decision making   
Scholarly activities |  Previous academic success that supports a lifelong commitment to excellence in practice   
Other interview component(s) |  Broad range of extracurricular activities that show interest in self-development and enhance the candidates life skills and maturity   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Welcome to McMaster Ophthalmology.

Excellence, Innovation and Collaboration is our key focus. At McMaster
Ophthalmology Residency Program, we have developed a strong reputation for
excellence. Our program aims to provide the highest quality comprehensive
clinical and surgical ophthalmology training and ophthalmic research to
residents to become an effective clinician, advocate, academic leader and
researcher that is devoted to excellence in patient care. With strong
commitment to teaching and first-class patient care, the McMaster
Ophthalmology program creates an atmosphere for residents to explore an
academic and or community career development through service, teaching and
clinical research.

The McMaster Ophthalmology program gives residents a broad comprehensive
ophthalmology background and opportunities to gain experience in the different
subspecialties. This is supported by a dedicated, outstanding faculty who
teach, mentor, and form lasting relationships with residents in our enhanced
tertiary training and referral center for ophthalmology within the Hamilton
region. The faculty offers expertise in most areas of specialization and
research in ophthalmology. With increasing focus on research, the program
creates opportunities with dedicated protected time to develop independent
and/or collaborative research projects of special interests in basic science,
clinical and public health ophthalmology within McMaster, Canada and
internationally.

McMaster Ophthalmology International provides residents with global and public
health ophthalmology experience to magnify the impact of our work, to better
physician-pa­tient relationships, build sustainable partnerships and _capacity
in communities around the_  world whilst gaining a broader and deeper
perspective on another culture, and a new perspective for our own practice.

The program's resident wellness and mentorship program provides a unique
opportunity for our residents to learn, grow and set the stage for the rest of
their career. It creates the right learning environment to support early sub
specialty exposures, formal academic teaching schedules including a visiting
professors round series, surgical exposures with high case numbers supported
by simulation and surgical wet labs as well as the opportunities to work hard
and relax well.

At the completion of the outstanding clinical training at McMaster, graduates
of the program will be confident of having received the best possible training
in ophthalmology to prepare them for the career challenges ahead and be among
the best of their peers in the country and internationally. The
accomplishments of our residency graduates so far demonstrate this training
philosophy.

The McMaster Ophthalmology Residency Program seeks to attract a diverse group
of individuals who are committed to the practice of ophthalmology and using
the knowledge and skills acquired to provide first class, excellent eye care
and be a future leader in our field. The program offers innovative learning
opportunities and resources to foster outstanding residency education and
development that allows residents to pursue their specific professional
development interests and passions that meet their career goals in a collegial
environment. Collaboration is central to our process of program advancement.

Explore the possibilities of a career with lifelong education with us at
McMaster Ophthalmology.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Curriculum**

The McMaster Ophthalmology Residency Program is structured to meet the needs
and interests of each resident.

The presentation here outlines the current curriculum based on the Royal
College’s standard training requirements and the objectives of training in
ophthalmology. Our training curriculum has been modified to meet the
requirements of the Royal College Competency by Design Curriculum for
ophthalmology that started for the PGY 1 year in July 1, 2023. This training
year comprises:

**Transition to Discipline**

\- PG Year 1 - Blocks 1 - 2 = 2 ophthalmology blocks

**Foundations of Discipline**

\- PG Year 1 - Blocks 3 - 12 = 7 off-service blocks + 3.5 ophthalmology blocks
(Emergency Eye Clinic + 6 week Toronto Ophthalmology Residents' Introductory
Course)

**Core of Discipline**  = Emergency Eye Clinic, Subspecialty ophthalmology,
Surgical blocks, 3 elective blocks, community ophthalmology

\- PG Year 2 - 4

**Transition to Practice**  = Emergency Eye Clinic, Subspecialty
ophthalmology, Surgical blocks, 2 elective blocks, community ophthalmology

\- PG Year 5

The PGY1 (basic clinical year) provide a broad base of clinical experience
prior to beginning the core training in ophthalmology. Specific attention is
given to areas with close patient links to ophthalmology such as neurology,
endocrinology, rheumatology, internal medicine CTU, paediatrics, emergency,
plastic surgery and otolaryngology, but broad medical experience is gained in
other rotations. Residents will attend 12 hours or 4 sessions in Critical
Appraisal in the CORE Program. In preparation for the core training in
Ophthalmology, PGY1 residents return to the department for academic half day
teaching, clinical exposure in clinics as well as the clinical skill courses
and wet labs.

The PGY2 through PGY5 years are organized into the Royal College mandated
13-block schedule. The 2 months rotations are preceptor or service based and
the resident will attend the rotations at the Hamilton Regional Eye Institute
and McMaster Children’s Hospital and may travel with the preceptor to clinic,
operating room, suites or offices. Residents will have 3 exposures to each
sub-specialty in each year and it’s expected that learning will be gradual and
incremental as the resident’s progress through the successive years. An
international Ophthalmology and community-based experience are included.

The four years of core training in ophthalmology are designed to meet the
"Objectives of Training and Specific Training Requirements in Ophthalmology",
which themselves are in CanMEDS format:

The "Medical Expert" role will be imparted through self-study, didactic, and
clinical formats with regular evaluation. At the end of the PGY1 year,
residents will attend the TORIC course in Ophthalmology. During the PGY 2 & 3
years, each resident will work through the 13 sections of the Basic & Clinical
Science Course in Ophthalmology of the American Academy of Ophthalmology and
other available Ophthalmology resources. During the PGY4 and PGY5 year, the
resident will be encouraged to attend the WILLS Eye and or San Antonio
Ophthalmology Review courses. The PGY5 residents are encouraged to attend the
Annual Meeting of the American Academy of Ophthalmology held in October or
November each year, at which time several hundred courses are offered and
allow flexibility in pursuing specific interests or in correcting
deficiencies. Elective opportunities are provided from PGY 3 – 5 years for
residents to explore career opportunities and make connections with staff in
other programs. In addition residents career options for either community or
fellowship training are supported and encouraged.

A core didactic program of lectures and tutorials will be given "in-house" on
a two-year cycle, further ensuring coherent acquisition of knowledge. Grand
rounds and clinical rounds and sub-specialty rounds are held weekly, September
to June, to discuss interesting cases, ethical issues, and research
presentations. There is a Visiting Professors lecture series and clinical
sessions with the residents. Journal clubs are held regularly, during which
time critical appraisal skills are enhanced. Morbidity rounds, Surgical video
review rounds, academic half day lectures and research provides opportunities
for quality improvements training in the program. Opportunities for attendance
at academic days at local and nearby institutions will include Paul Stringer
Day (Hamilton), Sally Letson (Ottawa), Walter Wright (Toronto); Cataract
Course (Toronto), Jack Crawford Day (Toronto), and Rosen Symposium (Kingston).

Competencies in the use of diagnostic equipment, refraction, laser therapy and
the ability to select and perform surgical procedures will be attained through
clinical rotations with progressively increasing responsibility. Surgical
skills will be acquired throughout the core years in a progressive fashion
including exposure to micro-surgical wet labs and simulation. Skills in acute
care and trauma will be acquired through emergency call as well as in the
office setting, and long-term care through the office setting. Consultations
to patients on other medical and surgical inpatient wards are started during
the PGY2 year. Resident Clinic is organized daily and allows the resident to
see how disease and treatment evolve over time.

Formal evaluation of knowledge will be by the standardized multiple-choice
examination (administered yearly to all residents in Ophthalmology in the
United States and Canada) known as the Ophthalmic Knowledge Assessment Program
(OKAP), which ranks resident knowledge in several domains and according to
residency level. Once yearly mock orals and written examinations will be given
locally by faculty based on the academic half day teachings; and rotation
specific written examinations and evaluations following each of the two-
monthly clinical (and surgical) rotations, based on rotation-specific goals
and objectives in CanMEDS format, with summation every six months by the
Program Director.

"Communication" and "Collaboration" skills will be nurtured, coached and
evaluated through the clinical and surgical rotations so that each resident is
able to communicate and appropriately collaborate with patients, patient
families, peers (including other residents, referring and consultant
physicians including anesthesiologists, diagnostic imagers, pathologists &
microbiologists), and other members of the health care team such as
orthoptists, ophthalmic technicians, Eye Bank personnel, nurses, social
workers, and workers from the Canadian National Institute for the Blind
(CNIB).

"Management" skills will be taught as above through "Communication" and
"Collaboration", but also more specifically through external courses,
conferences and by advice and close monitoring by Faculty, including practice
managements and transition into practice sessions. Up-to-date computer
facilities dedicated to resident use will be available to utilize electronic
information technology.

"Health Advocate" skills will be mentored at the level of day-to-day
management of the individual patient (e.g. access to low-vision services),
through discussion at Journal Club, and observation and participation in
interest groups and committees as specific issues arise, such as determining
resources for the visually impaired.

"Scholarship" will be encouraged through participation in activities of
continuing professional development through our national (the Canadian
Ophthalmological Society), and international specialty societies, other
meetings, and critical appraisal of journals. Each resident will be strongly
encouraged to directly participate in research projects that will lead to
presentation at our annual research day and/or major local, national and
international conferences as well as publication in reputable journals.

"Professionalism" will be nurtured and mentored so that each resident exhibits
appropriate personal and interpersonal professional behaviours so as to
practice medicine ethically and consistent with the obligations of a
physician. The ability to recognize limits of personal competence will be
through regular evaluation both formal and informal. Residents will be
encouraged to attend an ethics conference to further build upon the skills
learned within our program. The program also incorporates formal didactics on
practice management, business of medicine as well as career, personal and
professional development

**Research**

Candidates will be expected to carry out at least one prospective research
project during their residency with the expectation that this would be
presented at our annual research day and/or a local, national or international
meeting followed by publication. Residents are encouraged to actively
participate in the Hamilton Regional Eye Institute Research Department and
initiate or collaborate or assist with other research projects within the
department. Linkages are also provided for residents to do research with the
McMaster University Vision Science research teams and other departments.
Residents are also expected to perform sub-specialty specific and quality
assurance research during each of the sub-specialty rotations; this is
coordinated through monthly research meetings and research rounds
presentations.

* * *

# Training Sites

The training sites for the PGY1 year vary depending upon rotation but can
include all hospital sites within Hamilton Health Sciences and St. Joseph's
Healthcare Hamilton.  

Predominantly, the PGY 2 - 5 training sites remain at Hamilton Regional Eye
Institute at the St. Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton, Centre for Ambulatory
Health Services and the McMaster University Medical Center at Hamilton Health
Sciences.

Additional training occurs at the Trillium Partners and William Osler
Hospitals in Oakville and Brampton with sub specialty faculty staff as well as
in the community.

* * *

# Additional Information

**Information Town Halls and Open House**

There will be two virtual information Q&A town hall sessions with the program
directors and residents on the following dates:

Wednesday November 6, 2024 at 6:30pm EST

Wednesday December 4, 2024 at 6:30pm EST

All applicants are encouraged to attend.

Please register for the sessions by completing this form:
<https://forms.office.com/r/hyq3UDPxhp?origin=lprLink>



Additionally, applicants are strongly encouraged to visit our website where a
wealth of information regarding our program is available.





* * *

# FAQ



**How many residents are in your program?**

We currently have 8 residents.

**What are your strengths?  **

Our Faculty and Leadership

\-    Enthusiastic, approachable, and flexible program director

\-    Excellent collegial teaching faculty

\-    Collegial relationship within residents’ group and between faculty

\-     Exceptional program leadership opportunities with Residents and Faculty
in national, university or departmental or organizational leadership positions
- EDI, ACUPO, COS, Royal College, CGS, CRS, ICO etc

The Academics Experiences

\-    Strong medical expert academic curriculum

\-    Breadth and volume of clinical experiences from a wealth of diverse and
varied patients in coverage areas

\-    Early exposure to subspecialties and ophthalmic surgical experience

\-    Access to unique educational opportunities including basic clinical
skills and return to program in PGY 1 year.

\-    Innovative strategies for teaching non-medical CanMEDS roles including
case-based sessions, EDI approaches and mentorship program

Resident Engagement and Responsiveness

\-    Resident participation and engagement in program activities

**-    Responsive program catering to resident needs and career aspirations**

**What are the didactic sessions like?**

Structured academic half days sessions takes place every Wednesday afternoon.
This ensure all ophthalmic subspecialty topics from the American Academy of
Ophthalmology Manuals are covered in completion twice during one's residency.
In addition, there are sub specialty teaching rounds 2- 3 times a week. Other
academic programs include grand rounds every Wednesday including a visiting
professors series, morbidity rounds, research rounds, Journal clubs, and
surgical video nights.

**Do you have a wetlab for residents to practice?**

There are wet lab sessions organized in collaboration with phamaceutical
partners 4 - 6 times in the academic year and this are in basic and advanced
cataract and in the other sub specialty areas. This is also supported by
simulation activities during this sessions. The wet labs provides early
surgical experience to the residents and ensure that each resident is
extremely well trained surgically before entering the OR.

**Are residents required to perform research?**

Residents actively participate in a research project and their results are
presented at the annual divisional Research Day in February. Residents are
encouraged and supported to present papers and posters at national and
international meetings. There are dedicated research time for our residents in
each of the rotations.  

**Is there a forum to present issues affecting residents?   **

The Residency Education Committee meets bi monthly to discuss all issues
pertaining to the residency. Many changes are implemented regularly to address
the changing needs and requirements of the residents. Key faculty and all
residents are invited to participate. The program wellness and mentorship
program is available to all residents in addition to PGME Residents Affairs
offerings.

**Are the faculty staff  approachable? **

Our faculty staff are very approachable. Each resident has an attending
mentor. By the end of training, most residents have developed close and
lasting relationship with their staff and mentors.

**Is there any time for electives?   **

The program offers 3 months elective times in PGY 4 and 5. In addition, during
senior year, there is an optional international elective to partner academic
institutions.





* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26775?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26775