#  University of Calgary - Psychiatry - Calgary  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on November 08, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 9

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Rory Sellmer  

Address Psychiatry  
Foothills Medical Centre, Special Serv Bldg  
1403 29 Street NW  
Calgary, Alberta, T2N 2T9  

Work  (403) 944-1271

Work  (403) 944-8710

Websites of Interest [ University of Calgary Department of Psychiatry
](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/departments/psychiatry)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dana Savona

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: dana.savona@albertahealthservices.ca

Phone: 403-944-1271

403-944-8710

  

Name: Anabella Lahud

Title: Assistant Program Coordinator

Email: anabella.lahud@ahs.ca

Phone: 403-944-8710

  

* * *

# Important Information

Ahead of the interview period, all interested/potential applicants are welcome
to join any one of the three information sessions hosted by the UofC
Psychiatry residency CaRMS committee.

Format will allow for both informal presentations by the residents and
question time for the applicants.  

There is no need to pre-book attendance. Content of presentation will be
largely the same in all three Wednesday sessions.  Please note the timing is
in Mountain Standard Time.

  * Dates: All Wednesdays - September 18, October 2, October 30 2024 from 1800-2000 MST (6-8 PM)  
  

  * Zoom Link: <https://albertahealthservices.zoom.us/j/61261232547?pwd=dmJ1TFBVc0VyTys2M1U4MHlpc3lwUT09>
    * Meeting ID: 612 6123 2547
    * Passcode: 011748

Thank you

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

The interview process is meant to not only provide the training program with
opportunities to meet potential new recruits, but also for the applicants to
learn more about the program and to compare it to other training programs in
Canada.

Short-listed applicants are encouraged to ask questions and will be provided
with an e-mail address monitored by residents that can address any questions
prior to the interview.  

Interested students are encouraged to view the 18 minute recruitment video
created by the UofC Psychiatry residents which can be located in the
postgraduate education section of the departmental website noted elsewhere in
the program description.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Reference documents

Required

Applicant support form  Number requested: 3

Traditional letters of reference are no longer accepted for this program. Your
referee must complete the required structured reference form. Please include
this link in your reference request:
<https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/2025-Psychiatry-Structured-Reference-Letter-EN.pdf>

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Photo should be a clear head shot and no more than 2 MB in size.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  900

  

The personal letter should be concise- no more than nine hundred words- and
encompass the applicant's reasons and rationale for applying both to the
specialty and the program.  



Please review 'Selection Criteria' for more detailed information.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

In light of the large amount of information needed to be reviewed in a brief
period of time by the selection committee, please be concise (maximum 900
words) in the personal letter, highlighting the reasons for your interest both
in the specialty and the Calgary program.

To maintain efficiency and standardization in the file review process, CVs
will not be included in the file review.  Please ensure to complete all
aspects of the CaRMS online application form, including sections on: work
experience, scholarly activities, publications, volunteer experience,
achievements and interests.



* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025
  * January 30, 2025
  * January 31, 2025
  * February 6, 2025
  * February 7, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: January 23 (Thursday), January 24 (Friday)
and February 7  (Friday)  will be morning only interviews.  
  
January 30 (Thursday), January 31 (Friday) and February 6 (Thursday)  will
have interviews in both morning and afternoon.  
  
Program administrator will determine exact times after the applicant responds
to the invite indicating a morning or afternoon preference.  
  
There is no further attendance required during the workday hours; resident
presentations will be in early evening (Mountain Time).  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process:  All interviews will be held
virtually.  
  
All candidates will be contacted via updates to their online CaRMS profile and
instructed to promptly contact the program office as per the message from
Calgary Psychiatry if the message is an invite.  If there is no response
within three business days from the short-listed applicants, they will be
contacted directly by phone; a finite period of time will be indicated in the
e-mail to respond to the invite. (Due to past issues with university e-mails,
please ensure the CaRMS profile phone number leads to a voice mail option that
identifies the applicant in case of such a phone call.)  
  
Interview formats will include two 30-minute interviews occuring in the same
half day, one with the Program Director and a resident member of the Residency
Program Committee (RPC) and the other with the Associate Program Director and
one of our Lead Residents.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Within their personal letter, candidates must demonstrate a sincere interest
both in the specialty and the program. Applicants must include a brief
description of knowledge/insight gained during elective(s) in the specialty.
Reference letters from preceptors in the field of Psychiatry are preferred.
The academic record should demonstrate special proficiency in those subjects
related to the specialty. Applicant files should reflect a willingness to
contribute to and enhance the residency program experience. The content of the
personal letter should reflect good communication and interpersonal skills,
maturity, empathy, and sensitivity.

For the ranking committee to thoroughly review all applicant files in a timely
manner, letters should be under 900 words.

Within the CaRMS application structure for listing clinical experiences, it
should clearly identify/ delineate between full time electives, core rotations
and brief horizontal experiences in clinical settings.

## Program goals

Psychiatry is the branch of Medicine concerned with the biopsychosocial study
of the etiology, assessment, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of mental,
emotional, and behavioral disorders alone or as they coexist with other
medical or surgical disorders across the lifespan.

Residency training in Psychiatry at the University of Calgary will prepare
applicants for success at Royal College specialty examinations as well as
provide the tools across the aforementioned domains to ultimately function as
an excellent Psychiatrist.

The Program's philosophy is to develop psychiatrists who possess qualities of
excellence that relate to their roles as physicians, as individuals, and as
members of the community.

**Goals of the program:**

To provide well conceived and developed opportunities for trainees in
Psychiatry to achieve educational objectives as set by the Residency Program
Committee as well as the requirements outlined in the Royal College's
'Psychiatry Training Experiences' document.

  1. To provide a context for graduated progression of responsibilities appropriate to the level of competence in Psychiatry and well aligned with training objectives.
  2. To provide a learning culture that facilitates academic excellence in clinical assessment and investigation as well as comprehensive evidence-informed management of psychiatric illness, education and research.

**Objectives of the program:** On completion of the educational program, the
graduate physician will demonstrate competence to function in assessments,
continuity of care, and to be a consultant in Psychiatry.





## Selection process goals

The program values candidates who consistently demonstrate a high degree of
integrity and overall professionalism. Successful candidates to the program
share a passion for Psychiatry demonstrated by academic and clinical
excellence related to Psychiatry, coupled with a willingness to provide
significant contributions to the collective training experience in the
residency program. To this end, qualities of maturity, reflectiveness, open-
mindedness and adaptiveness are emphasized.

Additionally, the program promotes a keen awareness of health advocacy issues
and has a strong commitment to multidisciplinary team based healthcare.



## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is comprised of the Program
Directors and Lead Residents, with input from faculty and administrative staff
who have interacted with the applicants either in core or elective training.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
Average number of applications is usually between 150 to 160.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  
Out of 150-160 applications, approximately 61 applicants are interviewed.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Due to time constraints, the program does NOT evaluate this file component. Applicants are urged to completely populate fields in the application document pertaining to work experience, scholarly activities, publications, volunteer experience, achievements and interests.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Elective experiences were severely limited due to the COVID-19 pandemic; we will not be considering electives in file review to ensure file review is fair and equitable for all candidates.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Success in examinations.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Characteristics valued: professionalism, integrity, reflectiveness, adaptiveness, team-work in prior careers and/or volunteer work.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Demonstration of ability to work collaboratively in a team. Notable strength in communication skills in group settings with physicians, allied health, patients and their families.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Overall academic and clinical excellence, aptitude for Psychiatry, nature and breadth of academic and non-academic experiences and achievements.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Evidence of commitment and interest in Psychiatry; reflective, open-minded, professional.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Faculty's observations around commitment, interest and aptitude for Psychiatry.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Demonstration of academic commitment/track record.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic track record and/or aptitude.   
Other file component(s) |  Due to the brevity of time for the selection committee to review all applications, CVs will NOT be reviewed. Please complete the entire online CaRMS application including sections on: work experience, scholarly activities, publications, volunteer experience, achievements and interest.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We prefer applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Aptitude for working collaboratively in team-based clinical environments.   
Collegiality |  Awareness of interpersonal dynamics and their impact on patients, colleagues and allied staff.   
Communication skills |  Comfort and skill in communication in all aspects of clinical and academic environments with physicians, allied health, patients and their families.   
Health advocacy |  Awareness of complex social factors impacting clinical presentations and outcomes in psychiatric patients, along with the ability to advocate in such contexts.   
Interest in the discipline |  Evidence of pursued interest in various aspects of Psychiatry in both medical school and volunteer work or prior careers.   
Interest in the program |  Evidence of applicant's research into the various components of the Calgary program in relation to their interests.   
Leadership skills |  Experience in leadership and team work in medical school, prior career and/or volunteer work.   
Professionalism |  High commitment to- and demonstration of- key characteristics of the professional role.   
Scholarly activities |  Academic aptitude in Psychiatry and related areas of Medicine.   
Other interview component(s) |  Commitment to Psychiatry, integrity, maturity, reflectiveness, open-mindedness, and adaptiveness are also essential characteristics for a successful applicant.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The University of Calgary residency training program for Psychiatry is
designed to graduate exceptionally skilled psychiatrists whom we would entrust
with the care of our own family members.

We achieve this via a commitment to excellence and an iterative process of
constant improvement and innovation.  By supporting our dedicated teaching
faculty, developing new educational approaches, and focusing on culture and
community, we prepare our residents for meaningful life-long careers.

Core training begins with an intensive summer program which ensures that new
residents are prepared and confident to begin on-call duties.  The remaining
first year curriculum is dedicated to foundational concepts supporting the
transition into psychiatry rotations.  A two-year rotating curriculum follows
for PGY-2s and -3s, with 7 major units covering the full breadth of
psychiatric presentations and contemporary issues in the field.  A parallel
psychotherapy curriculum is provided through PGY-1 & -2, enabling residents to
begin providing therapy under supervision.  Training wraps up with a
thoughtfully selected series of presentations and panels to the senior
residents regarding the transition to practice.

The program is shaped by the experiences of the trainees.   The program
training team seeks constant feedback through formal and informal processes
including regular meetings with the Program Director, educational committee
participation, and real time evaluations of lectures and events. Resident
needs and interests have inspired multiple educational initiatives unique to
Calgary, including these recent highlights:

  * PGY- 2 & 3- The Art and Science of the Interview:  Designed to meet the specific needs of the psychiatric trainee, this course teaches foundational and advanced interview skills enabling residents to establish a foundation for efficient, effective, and therapeutic patient care.   

  * Simulation Training in Psychiatry: As leaders in SIMs, the program has developed a complete junior series which exposes trainees to commonly encountered high acuity situations in patient management. The senior resident series provides experiences in managing less commonly encountered presentations which trainees may only rarely encounter in clinical rotations, but which are critical professional experiences. 

  * Annual OSCE Day: In addition to annual long case interview practice (STACER), Canadian and American Psychiatry exams, and monthly OSCE resident-created sessions, the program also runs an annual OSCE exam day which simulates the Royal College Exam experience.

  * Resident Research & Mentoring Committee: To support the knowledge, skill development and research success of the residents, notable researchers within the department and affiliated with the Matheson Center, are matched with each resident to provide direct advice and mentorship.   

  * Cultural Psychiatry Day: An annual event with resident-driven content to explore topics relevant to developing skills to ensure culturally skilled psychiatric care. 

The program supports a culture of respect, collegiality, inclusion, and
professionalism.    Through the vertical mentorship program (with groups
composed of a faculty lead and a resident from each PGY cohort), near peer-
support, biannual BOUNCE (Bringing Our Unique Narrative to Clinical Evolution)
events, and a variety of resident led committees and clubs, residents build
relationships and become an integrated part of the community.  The program
fosters well being , supporting both individual and institutional approaches
to developing resilient physicians who can thrive in future careers.  We
strive to balance exposure to the realities of practice with a variety of
individualized and group supports as part of our professional identity
formation approach.  



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**General Overview**

Psychiatric residency at The University of Calgary is a five year Royal
College accredited program.  Using the Competency By Design model, the program
well prepares physicians for the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons
examinations that lead to certification in Psychiatry and competency in all
CBD milestones and the seven CanMEDS roles. It also prepares physicians for a
career with a sound clinical and scientific basis, and with skills for the
ongoing acquisition of knowledge. The faculty seek to convey basic knowledge
and the latest advances. A sound research basis helps students to think
critically about research issues, and to critically evaluate the literature.

Utilizing a combination of service and preceptor based models, the program
allows for varied learning as well as fostering relationships with specific
teachers as the resident is guided through the learning experience. The
program size enables each resident to have educational experiences tailored to
their learning needs while also being large enough for group cooperation with
fellow residents and to experience the variety of learning opportunities
characteristic of a robust academic center.

Teaching and service(s) are based at the Foothills Hospital (FMC), Peter
Lougheed Centre (PLC), Rockyview General Hospital (RVH), South Health Campus
(SHC), Alberta Children's Hospital (ACH)  and associated outpatient settings
to provide opportunities to work in the community throughout residency.  We
prioritize educational objectives balanced with service delivery being mindful
of supporting individual interests and aspirations.

Opportunities to meet RCPSC Collaborative Care and Longitudinal Chronic Care
training requirements have been incorporated into schedules, taking into
account resident interests wherever possible.

The program trains General Psychiatry residents alongside residents in the
Geriatric and Child /Adolescent subspecialty PGY-5/-6 streams.  The Forensic
subspecialty program is also accredited.  

\----

**Psychotherapy training**  
  

Clinical psychotherapy training is included concurrently in core rotations
with dedicated time of approximately one half day per week. As noted in the
PGY-1 description (below), academic training begins in PGY-1 with two
protected half days per month, followed by four months of weekly skill
building sessions in PGY-2 with psychiatrists and psychologists specially
trained in the psychotherapies.

Following this, residents will be supervised in at least three modalities.
Residents will participate in psychodynamic training for a minimum of one year
and for six months each in Cognitive Behavioral as well as Family and/or Group
Therapy .  Electives in any of these modalities and additional training in
Interpersonal Therapy and Dialectical Behavioral Therapy are available. The
residency Psychotherapy Chair oversees all aspects of psychotherapy learning
and training in residency.

During the formal Thursday afternoon academic half day teaching in PGY-2 and
-3, a further three months are devoted to the teaching of the psychotherapies.

In addition to the required psychotherapy supervision, residents can- and
frequently do- opt to train further in a particular modality.

In PGY-2, residents begin meeting annually with the Psychotherapy Chair to
discuss their training.

\----

  
  

**The Department of Psychiatry**  
  

The Residency Program in Psychiatry is administered by the Department of
Psychiatry, University of Calgary.  

Faculty are involved in the teaching of its own psychiatric residents,
undergraduates, family practice in both Outpatient and Emergency Psychiatry
settings, other offservice residents, psychology interns, social work and
graduate students. This mixture of students provides a stimulating environment
for residents, students and faculty.

\----

  
  

**PGY-1** **(Transition to Discipline, Foundations)**  
  

Residency begins with two blocks of Transition to Discipline that contain
experiences in multiple acute care settings, seminars and simulations in
Emergency Psychiatry settings. After this, residents begin 22 months in the
Foundations stage of the Competency By Design framework  with 7 four week
blocks in PGY-1 rotating through areas outside of Psychiatry and 4 four week
blocks in Psychiatry.  

The PGY-1 Medicine-focused component (3 one-month blocks) and Emergency
Medicine occur at the Rockyview General Hospital, Neurology at the Foothills
Medical Centre and South Health Campus, and MedPsych unit at the Peter
Lougheed Centre (the only one of its kind in Canada).  Emergency Psychiatry
and Inpatient Psychiatry rotations occur at FMC, PLC, RVH or SHC. The
Pediatrics rotation is set in a community medical clinic setting, caring for
young adults and their offspring.  Starting in 2024, PGY-1 residents will all
train for one block in addiction medicine at the PLC ARCH program to ensure
foundational skills are acquired.

All PGY-1 Psychiatry residents have each Thursday afternoon year round as
protected academic time at the Foothills Medical Centre where there are
simulations and a seminar series dedicated to the PGY-1 group alone.   PGY-1s
have two additional protected half days monthly that are dedicated to
developing their psychotherapeutic skills and gaining a basic understanding of
psychopharmacology.

\----

  
  

**PGY-2** **(Foundations)**  
  

_Inpatient Psychiatry Rotation_

Continuing in Foundations,  PGY-2 begins with either 3 months of Inpatients or
child and adolescent psychiatry, generally followed by either six months of
Outpatients or Psychogeriatrics. The goal of the first six months of the year
is for the resident to become familiar with basic interviewing, diagnosis and
treatment options for the major psychiatric disorders.

Residents train in Inpatients and Outpatients at any of the four adult sites
to provide a larger exposure to teaching styles and increase familiarity with
the various sites.

\----

  
  

**Balance of PGY-2, -3 and -4**   **(Remainder of Foundations, Core)**  
  

To ensure all residents have exposure to relevant core training experiences
prior to the Royal College exam in PGY4 we have designed a rotation plan to
meet these needs which results in 3 month exposure to child and adolescent as
well as inpatient psychiatry in junior years and again later in senior years.  

_Child & Adolescent Psychiatry Rotation_

This rotation is split into 3 months child and adolescent psychiatry at either
the Alberta Children's Hospital, South Health campus, or The Summit Centre and
3 months adolescent psychiatry at the Foothills Medical Center adolescent
units. The emphasis is on understanding childhood disorders in the context of
the child's development, family and social system. As well, the resident will
acquire skills with individual and family assessments, interviewing and
treatment approaches via settings in Inpatients, Consultation Liaison and
various clinics.  Residents will be able to attend outpatient clinics dealing
with Community Psychiatry, Mood Disorders, Psychosis, Eating Disorders, and
Addictions during their adolescent psychiatry portion.  

_Outpatient Psychiatry Rotation_

In this 6 month rotation, the resident begins to develop skills in the
assessment and treatment of major disorders in an outpatient setting, learning
the use of both psychotherapy and pharmacotherapy for treatment and
management. This rotation is offered at all of the adult sites- PLC, FMC, RVH,
and SHC as well as at a community-based clinic outside of Calgary.

_Rehabilitative Psychiatry Rotation_

In this 6 month rotation, which can be split into 3 month blocks, the resident
will participate in various clinical environments caring for people with
severe and  persistent mental illness such as schizophrenia and bipolar
disorder. The emphasis is on evidence-based active rehabilitation in severe
and persistent mental illness.  In this context, residents will build skills
in individual and family assessments, as well as a knowledge of community
resources. Training is available at the downtown Active Community Treatment
centre or the Arnika Centre caring for those with developmental disorders.
Foothills Medical Centre psychosis-oriented clinics (Early Psychosis
Intervention Program/ Adult Psychosis Program) as well as Tertiary Care Mood
Disorders program typically provides training for multiple residents at any
given time.  Residents can also opt to train in a rural setting at the
Claresholm Care Centre which is a little over an hour outside of the city and
includes the only inpatient wing in the southern Alberta catchment area
specifically treating substance use.

_Consultation Liaison Psychiatry Rotation_

During this 3 month experience, the resident joins a Consultation Liaison
team, providing consultation to physicians in other departments and mental
health professionals. It is a chance to work with physically ill patients with
a range of mental health concerns. Learning about illness adjustment and the
association of mental and physical factors in illness are emphasized.
Rotations are available at all four adult sites.

_Psychogeriatrics Rotation_

This is a 6 month rotation in which the resident builds knowledge and skills
in assessing and treating the psychiatric presentations in the elderly. This
rotation is based out of the Rockyview Hospital and longterm care facilities
in the community. Therefore, residents have opportunities to see patients in
Inpatients, Consultation Liaison, Day Hospital, Long Term Care, Rural and
Community settings as well as in-home visits.

_Addictions_

All residents will participate in a one month block in Addictions training
using a combination of outpatient clinics or the Claresholm Concurrent
Disorder unit.  There is also the option to train in a treatment facility in
Whitehorse.

_Balance of PGY-2,-3 and -4_

The remaining two months in Core stage of training gives the resident an
opportunity to pursue elective placements, as well as meeting the requirements
for Shared Care (which can either be six months weekly and longitudinal or one
solid four week block).  In accordance with Postgraduate policies, residents
who have satisfactorily met all Core milestones may train for up to six months
out of the Calgary area to pursue other psychiatry or psychiatry-related
experiences (including neurology).

\----

  
  

**PGY-5**   **(Transition to Practice)**  
  

During the last year of Psychiatry training in the Transition to Practice
stage, residents are able to do electives in their area of interest in
Psychiatry or pursue accredited subspecialty training in Child, Geriatric,
Forensic, Neuropsychiatry or Addictions.   Residents are encouraged to modify
elective time in order to optimize personal learning through the utilizing of
diverse resources. (As mentioned above,) UofC permits a maximum of six months
of training outside of Calgary to pursue opportunities. Electives in research,
psychotherapy, education, community/rural settings, neuropsychiatry as well as
the traditional clinical experiences can be arranged.  A new TTP curriculum
has been developed to support the needs and goals of a senior resident
preparing for practice.  

As of Summer 2021, UofC Psychiatry is one of three programs in Canada
recognized by UCNS for Neuropsychiatry subspecialty training.

Inter-provincial and international electives are possible.

\----

  
  

**Curriculum**  
  

The program holds a year-round half day protected time weekly throughout
residency (including PGY-1s)  for simulations,  formal seminars or self-
directed learning. Beginning in Transition to Discipline, there is an
introductory block of seminars and academic case discussions for the PGY-1s.
Topics focus on clinical skills and essential knowledge that is needed early
on (such as Emergency Psychiatry with various populations, Safety issues and
Communication Skills) in the general hospital setting.

The PGY-2s and PGY-3s have joint seminars. The focus is a core curriculum of
psychiatric disorders, developmental psychiatry, basic sciences,
psychotherapy, forensic psychiatry, research methods and preparation for
clinical practice. Simulation is also used.  This group also participates in a
monthly Art and Science of the Interview course as described in 'Program
Highlights.'

PGY-5s are provided with a Transition to Practice curriculum, some sessions
will be optionally available to PGY-4's as they prepare for exams.

In preparation for their long case certifying STACERs in PGY-4 in the latter
half of the academic year, residents will partake September to December in
weekly training in formulation and interview skills.

Academic full days occur once per month in the September to June and allow for
mock OSCEs created and enacted by PGY-2 to -4 residents, with content and
process overseen by a designated faculty member, critical appraisal journal
clubs with a psychiatrist who has an interest in this area co-hosts a monthly
session with a roster of residents, business meetings, and other learning
opportunities.  

Departmental Grand Rounds are teleconferenced every Tuesday noon hour to all
the teaching sites.

Non-formative OSCEs are held each year for all of the PGY-2-4s. Practice
STACERs are run annually for all of the PGY-2-4s, in preparation for the
certifying STACERs slated for PGY-4.

\----

  
  

**Academic Project**  
  

The resident will complete a scholarly project that would be suitable for
submission to a peer review process.  The resident Research Director works
with a group of research mentors who are well-established in their fields and
support residents in achieving success in developing a research focus and
producing a final product.  Recognizing that trainees have varying levels of
interest in research, the director and the mentor group work with the resident
to establish a research trajectory that varies from the minimal requirement of
producing a journal worthy manuscript and presenting at a local conference all
the way up to participating the medical investigator program and completing a
graduate degree or anything in between.  

During second year, a research supervisor will be chosen or assigned to each
resident to aid in the research process.  There are regular meetings with the
research director to discuss progress from the second year onwards.  A
research requirement package outlining the key milestones and requirements is
provided to each resident.  

The residents are encouraged to present their project at provincial or
national meetings and at the departmental research day which is held every
spring and is an opportunity for residents and faculty present their academic
and research interests. Prizes are awarded for the best resident research and
for most innovative research.

Residents are all minimally expected to prepare a manuscript and present at
least once at an approved academic event, with the option to use their
research as the springboard for their presentation.

Residents can opt to apply to use elective time to pursue research.

\----

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

**Foothills Medical Centre**

The hospital is immediately adjacent to the medical school and is considered
the main teaching site for the residency program.  It has a full range of
adult psychiatric services including 58 adult inpatient beds for acute
admissions on two clinical teaching units. A portion of the PGY-1s will train
here during Transition to Practice Inpatient block and/or in their Emergency
Psychiatry block.

There are also two young adult Inpatient Psychiatric units specializing in
Adolescent mental health.

An active Consultation Liaison Service provides training in the interface
between Psychiatry and other areas of Medicine, offering unique exposure to
Level 3 trauma patients and an extensive Neurology and Neurosurgery
department.

The Psychiatric Adult Service (PAS) and Day Treatment provide general
outpatient bases for the residents. Supervised assessments will be conducted
and the remaining time will be spent in supervised follow-up of patients and
other educational activities. There is a large Day Patient Program for the
treatment of patients not requiring full hospitalization which provides
intensive pharmacological and psychotherapeutic treatments in a step-down
model from inpatient care. A number of unique specialized programs are housed
in the outpatient department including neuropsychiatry, early as well as
treatment psychosis, substance abuse, OCD, and affective disorders. The Early
Psychosis Intervention Program and PRIME (Prevention through Risk
Identification Management and Education) are innovative models used for early
intervention and treatment of psychotic disorders while the mood clinic and
anxiety disorders clinic provide specialized care for complex mood & anxiety
disorders including a rTMS research program.

Each year there are approximately 1100 inpatient admissions while there are
approximately 35,000 outpatient visits.

\----

**Peter Lougheed Hospital /Sunridge Galleria**

The Peter Lougheed Hospital has a full range of adult psychiatric services.
There are 78 inpatient beds including 5 psychogeriatric beds.

There is a full Psychiatric Emergency Service with a roster of psychiatrists,
an emergency team and a psychiatric emergency director.

This site also has Canada's first MedPsych unit (psychiatric patients with
medical comorbidities) codirected by a psychiatrist and internist.

The Psychiatric Outpatient Service (POS), located in the Galleria, provides
transition sources to patients from the inpatient and emergency units,
including women's mental health issues. This is done mainly through groups by
a multidisciplinary team. The clinic as a whole assesses approximately 50
patients per month and has approximately 900 outpatient visits per month.  The
Short Stay Unit provides 7-day per week care to individuals in crisis.  

The North East Clinic, also at the Galleria, is an alternative for outpatient
training. In addition, there is a tertiary care centre for anxiety disorders
with ongoing research.

Forensic Adult Outpatient Services (FAOS) and the Forensic Adolescent Program
(FAP) are in the Sunridge area.

Future plans include a Psychiatric ICU, neuro-stimulation unit, and a child
and adolescent medical psychiatric unit.

\-----

**Alberta Children's Hospital**

The Alberta Children's Hospital in NW Calgary has a well established Child and
Adolescent Psychiatry Department. There are inpatient services with fourteen
beds and outpatient services for assessment and treatment of children of all
ages.

In addition, there is active involvement in related child and adolescent
services throughout the city, including Adolescent and Child Day Treatments,
Eating Disorders program and Shared Care programs with schools and primary
care physicians.  In January 2023, The Summit Centre for Youth Resilience-
which is also in NW Calgary- opened to provide more outpatient services to
support child and adolescent populations.

Specialized mental health outpatient services are provided at the Richmond
Road Diagnostic Treatment Centre, targeting a variety of core child and
adolescent psychiatric presentations.

Pediatric Consultation Liaison psychiatry supports patients on the ACH medical
units with psychiatric comorbidities.  Residents can also gain learning
exposure through outpatient pediatric Consultation Liaison clinics and somatic
symptom disorder clinics.

General Psychiatry residents will have opportunities to work alongside
subspecialty and off-service residents.

\----

**Rockyview General Hospital**

The majority of the PGY-1 year is based at the Rockyview General Hospital with
the exception of MedPsych, Neurology and Community Pediatrics. (This
translates into training for Emergency Psychiatry for some PGY-1s, Medicine,
Emergency and potentially Medical Subspecialty at RGH.)  As noted in the
program curriculum for PGY-1, the two sequential four-week blocks of Inpatient
Psychiatry can occur at FMC, PLC, RGH or SHC sites.

Psychogeriatric residency training, including the subspecialty program, is
centered at the Rockyview Hospital with satellite training at the Glenmore
Rehabilitation Centre, Sheldon Chumir Centre, city nursing homes and home
visits. Currently, there are 20 psychogeriatric beds and 50 acute care beds
for Psychiatry on site.

Consultation Liaison Services are offered with a well-established training
experience.

Training in Outpatients is within the Day Treatment Centre.  Day Program and
Psychiatric Consult Clinic are also located on this site for potential
electives both in outpatients or psychotherapy.

A Crisis Stabilization Unit was opened at this site in 2018 within the
Emergency area offering an outstanding elective experience.

\----

**South Health Campus**

Calgary's newest hospital opened its psychiatric services in January 2013 with
25 adult and 8 adolescent inpatient beds, in addition to Emergency Psychiatry
and Consultation Liaison.  Residents can also train in Outpatients at this
site.

In 2022, an eight-bed Psychiatric ICU opened and is reserved for patients who
present a danger to themselves or others, or who require intensive observation
and treatment. The unit was designed with a trauma-informed care approach, and
is designed to be calming, to allow for mindfulness and still provide some
autonomy for patients, which is an excellent training environment.

**Additional Sites**

In the community, residents interested in Adolescent Psychiatry may opt to
train at the Adolescent Day Treatment Program or the internationally renowned
Family Therapy Training Program which provides psychotherapy training.  In
addition, The Summit Treatment Centre for Youth Resilience opened in January
2023 to provide outpatient care to children and young adults, with three
programs including Day Hospital, Intensive Community Treatment and Walk-in.

The Southern Alberta Forensic Psychiatry Centre is located in the Northwest
quadrant of the city. This is the locale for Inpatient Forensic rotations,
with neighboring complexes for Young Offenders and Remand.  This is also the
home base for the Forensic subspecialty program.

The downtown Sheldon Chumir Health Centre (SCHC) can be accessed for the
Chronic/Rehabilitative Care rotation (Active Community Treatment program) or
Outpatients.  Psychotherapy training and electives in Dialectical Behavioral
Therapy, Group Therapy and psychodynamics are available at SCHC. This is also
the homebase for Community/ Outpatient Geriatric Mental Health.

Training in general community medical care is accessed during pediatric
training at the Alex Youth Centre. (See PGY-1 description.) Residents can also
select the Alex Youth for their Shared Care placement.

Chronic/Rehabilitative Care and Addictions rotations are available at the
Claresholm Care Centre, a longterm care facility outside the city limits that
includes the only dual diagnoses beds in the Calgary catchment area.

Residents on the Sunridge Outpatient rotation will have opportunities to
attend rural clinics in the neighboring city of Airdrie or Family Medicine
Shared Care clinics in northeast Calgary.



\----

**Quick facts**

-There are opportunities for inter-provincial and international electives while training in the program to a maximum of six months outside of Calgary and/or Psychiatry in senior years.

-The ratio of residents to faculty is 1:1 to 1:2.

-All incoming residents join a vertical mentoring program with a faculty mentor from within the department and one resident from each postgraduate year.  

-The average patient load is highly variable depending on the rotation and the resident level. On average, a resident might carry 3-5 patients on an Inpatient rotation. On an Outpatient rotation, a junior might average 10 patients, while a senior would average more.

-Residents are provided with access to electronic medical resources. Connect Care is the new provincial platform for EMR.

-See 'Academic Project' for more detailed research requirements.

-Residents are encouraged to develop their instructional skills by teaching in the undergraduate medical school courses.  Residents frequently participate as leaders in the medical school's Communications, Professionalism and Ethics courses as well as presenting to final year students regarding CaRMS applications.  UME is revamping their process of providing their curriculum which will modify how Psychiatry and other areas of Medicine are taught in a longitudinal model.

  
-Beginning in PGY-1, the Department financially supports resident learning with an annual 'book fund' allowance for costs incurred to attend local workshops, purchase textbooks or software.  In addition, Postgraduate Medical Education provides Education Enhancement funds to support attendance to major Psychiatry-related conferences.

\- Residents that are selected to represent the training program nationally at
COPE are provided with funding for necessary travel.

-Subspecialty training has been accredited in Child & Adolescent, Geriatric, Forensic and Neuropsychiatry.

* * *

# Additional Information



**Miscellaneous  **



\-- All residents participate in retreats twice a year that run a full two
days each spring and fall which include both a team building activity and a
thorough review of all components of training.  Retreats are protected time
away from clinical duties and seminars.



\-- Residents have taken the initiative in supporting medical student
shadowing by both organizing the pairings and providing opportunities for
students to shadow the residents.



 \-- Residents participate in noon hour clerkship teaching on a roster of
major psychiatric topics prior to weekly lectures by the faculty to the
clinical clerks.  Using videoconferencing, residents can teach from any site.



\-- Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada: Competency by Design

 _Applying competency-based practices to residency education:_

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
introduced competency-based medical education (CBME) in Psychiatry in July
2020. [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/competence-design-e) enhances patient
care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving patient
needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education process.

CBD uses [time as a
framework](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e)
rather than the basis for progression. It is not anticipated that the duration
of training will change for the majority of trainees. Residency training is
broken down into [stages](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/documents/cbd/cbd-
competence-continuum-diagram-legal-e.pdf), and each stage has a series of
milestones based on required competencies. These milestones  create more
targeted learning outcomes and involve more frequent, formative assessments
within the clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving
feedback on the skills they need.

All programs will continue to undergo the same rigorous accreditation
processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and traditional programs)
will continue to lead to Royal College approved certification. Certification
for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs will include the completion
of a Royal College examination; however, residents in CBD programs will also
be assessed against program milestones throughout their training. Within a CBD
program, all milestones (documented within an electronic portfolio) and the
Royal College examination must be successfully completed to achieve
certification.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

* * *

# FAQ

RCPSC Subspecialty residency training in PGY-5 and -6 is established in both
Geriatric and Child/ Adolescent Psychiatry. Forensics is also fully
accredited.

Outside of RCPSC, in the summer of 2021, the United Council of Neurologic
Subspecialties based in Minneapolis, Minnesota accredited UofC Psychiatry for
two year neuropsychiatry training. It accepted its first resident in July
2022. UofC is one of three schools in Canada accredited to provide
Neuropsychiatry training.



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27442?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27442