#  Dalhousie University - Neurology - Halifax  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Stephanie  Woodroffe  

Address Division of Neurology  
Room 3831, Halifax Infirmary  
1796 Summer Street  
Halifax, B3H 3A7  

(902) 473-6501

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Dalhousie University Division of Neurology
](http://medicine.dal.ca/departments/department-
sites/medicine/divisions/neurology.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Ashley Doucette

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: ashley.doucette@nshealth.ca

Phone: 902-473-6501

  

Name: Dr. Heather Rigby

Title: Co-Program Director

Email: heatherb.rigby@nshealth.ca

Phone: (902) 473-2405

  

Name: Dr. Stephanie Woodroffe

Title: Co-Program Director

Email: stephanie.woodroffe@nshealth.ca

Phone: 9024736501

  

* * *

# Important Information

To obtain a postgraduate training license after the conclusion of the match,
Canadian Medical Graduates (CMG's) must have registered and challenged the
Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Exam Part 1 (MCCQE 1) by July 1, 2025.
Those unsuccessful in the exam are subject to the decision of the regulatory
authority regarding licensure.

Our program values the importance of equity, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) as
a goal in the selection process.

To help inform and advance EDI in our selection process we are pleased to
offer the option to submit the voluntary CaRMS Self Identification
Questionnaire. Additionally, there is an additional verification process for
Indigenous membership or citizenship. Please see sections below for further
information.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

####  

You must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident _**at the time of
application**_.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. Additional references will NOT be
accepted. References are due by the CaRMS reference letter deadline.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

A personal letter must be submitted. Maximum word count of 750.

Custom Résumé / CV

An up-to-date CV must be submitted.

Conditionally required

Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry

If you have self-identified as Indigenous, we require additional information.

Applicants shall provide a certified copy of one or more of the following
documents with their application:

  1. A Certificate of Indian Status issued by the Government of Canada, or a First Nation recognized by the Government of Canada;
  2. Written confirmation of membership or citizenship with a federally recognized band or tribal authority in in the United States or Canada;
  3. Written confirmation of Inuit enrolment or a copy of an Inuit enrolment/beneficiary card issued by a modern Inuit treaty organization or government as follows:

3.1 Inuvialuit Regional Corporation;

3.2 Nunavut Tunngavik Incorporated;

3.3 Makivik Corporation;

Nunatsiavut Government;

  4. Written confirmation of Métis citizenship/membership or a copy of a Métis citizenship/membership card provided by a Métis government as follows:

4.1 Métis National Council governing members:

Métis Nation – Saskatchewan;

Métis Nation of Alberta;

Métis Nation British Columbia;

Métis Nation of Ontario;

  * Manitoba Métis Federation;
  * Métis Settlements of Alberta.

Applicants who do not supply any of the documents listed above shall supply a
250-word statement with applicable supporting documentation that demonstrates
how they meet the citizenship or membership criteria established by the
recognized Indigenous nation to which they claim membership or citizenship.

The above information is only made available to Dalhousie PGME, Program
Director, and Program manager of applicable training programs and will only be
used for purposes of the CaRMS matching process.

Please see below for certification of documents.

# Certification of Documents

Documents may be certified by one of the following professionals:

  1. Accountant
  2. Chief of a First Nations Band
  3. Commissioner for Oaths
  4. Employee of a Service Canada Centre acting in an official capacity
  5. Funeral Director
  6. Justice of the Peace
  7. Lawyer, Magistrate, or Notary
  8. Manager of a Financial Institution
  9. Regulated Medical or Health Practitioner
  10. Member of Parliament or their staff
  11. Member of a Provincial/Territorial Legislature or their staff
  12. Minister of Religion
  13. Municipal Clerk
  14. Official of a Federal/Provincial/Indigenous Government Department or one of its agencies
  15. Official of an Embassy, Consulate, or High Commission
  16. Police Officer
  17. Professional Engineer
  18. Social Worker
  19. Teacher
  20. University Professor or Staff

The person certifying the document(s) must:

  1. Compare the original to the copy
  2. State their official position or title
  3. Print their name
  4. Sign their name
  5. Write the date they certified the document
  6. Provide their telephone number
  7. Write the following statement: This is a true copy of the original document, which has not been altered in any way

Optional - will be reviewed

Self-identification questionnaire

We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. Any responses received will be used only to support our
program’s and Dalhousie’s equity, diversity, and inclusion goals.

Additionally, we invite applicable candidates to also complete Dalhousie’s
verification process for Indigenous identity, membership, or citizenship.

Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire or to complete Dalhousie’s verification process, but for those
that do feel comfortable doing so the information received would only be used
to advantage those who would contribute to the diversity of our community.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 4, 2025
  * February 5, 2025
  * February 6, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held virtually on
February 4, 5, and 6, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: It is not possible for our Program to
offer interviews to all applicants.  
  
All applications are initially reviewed by the Progam Director and the
Competence Committee Chair, who create a short-list of applicants who will be
invited to an interview, as well as a wait list.  
  
The program will contact applicants it has short-listed for interviews by
email.  
  
If an applicant chooses not to accept an interview, an applicant from the wait
list may be offered an interview.  
  
Virtual interviews will be held on three separate dates on February 4, 5, and
6, 2025.  A specific date will be selected for each candidate for an interview
and the schedule of interviews will be determined on a candidate by candidate
basis.  Each applicant will participate in three separate 15-20 minute
interviews, one with the Co-Program Directors, one with two current residents,
and one with two members of the Neurology faculty.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We select well-rounded, top-quality candidates based on academic excellence,
clinical skills, and interpersonal skills, and other attributes such as
problem solving, scholarly work, contibutions to their community, and
extracurricular activities.

Our program values the importance of equity, diversity, and inclusion (EDI)
and it remains a program goal in the selection process.

## Program goals

The Dalhousie University Adult Neurology Resident Training Program aims to
train excellent clinical neurologists who will be able to independently
diagnose and manage patients with a wide variety of neurological diagnoses.

Our trainees will exemplify all of the CanMEDS roles, and will become life-
long learners who actively contribute to the betterment of society through
their subsequent work in clinical neurology, education, and scholarly work.

## Selection process goals

The successful applicant to the Dalhousie University Adult Neurology Resident
Training Program will:

  1. Have a passion for neurology, and a desire to learn as much as they can, whenever they can.
  2. Be able to think critically, work with increasing amounts of independence, and offer solutions to challenges and problems.
  3. Demonstrate emotional intelligence, strong interpersonal skills, and a deep interest in providing the best possible care for patients and their families.
  4. Work well with others, and demonstrate an understanding of and respect for the members of interdisciplinary health care teams.
  5. Challenge themselves to always do better.

Dalhousie is committed to fostering a collegial culture grounded in diversity
and inclusiveness. The university encourages applications from Indigenous
persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women, persons of a
minority sexual orientation and/or gender identity, and all candidates who
would contribute to the diversity of our community.

Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire or to complete the verification process for Indigenous identity,
membership, or citizenship, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so
the information received would only be used to advantage those who would
contribute to the diversity of our community.

Any self identification questionnaires received and the results of the
verification process will be reviewed as part of our file review process, and
used as an aid for file reviewers in selecting a diverse group of candidates
for interviews. Information received may also be used by the program to adjust
final rankings, at the discretion of the selection committee, to address
issues of program priority and diversity.

## File review process

Review team composition : The Dalhousie University Adult Neurology Resident
Program review team is comprised of the Co-Program Directors, two Neurology
Residents, and two Neurology Faculty Members.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
The Dalhousie University Adult Neurology Program receives between 40 to 60
applications per year. This number has grown over the past three years.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  
Time constraints related to our interview process limits the number of
interviews to approximately 40 per year.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Academic ability, communication skills, time management.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Interest in neurology and related areas, ability to live and learn in new and different environments.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Work-life balance; interest in life-long learning.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Ability to work with others, communication skills, problem solving ability   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic ability   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Communication skills, interest in neurology, interest in our program   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Objective assessment of strengths and areas for improvement, academic ability, ability to work with others   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Academic ability, areas of interest, career path   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic ability   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We recognize that it can be difficult to arrange electives in Neurology at
multiple different universities.  While we would encourage applicants to
complete an elective with us if at all possible, this is not a requirement of
our program.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work effectively with colleagues and other health care team members.   
Collegiality |  Polite; respectful of the views and opinions of others.   
Communication skills |  Neurology is a discipline with a need for excellent communication skills.   
Health advocacy |  Appropriately advocates personal and public health   
Interest in the discipline |  An obvious passion for neurology is essential.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrate that they are the sort of person who could live and work with us for the next five years   
Leadership skills |  Ability to function as a (chief) resident, and when leading a care team.   
Professionalism |  Honesty and integrity.   
Scholarly activities |  Work already completed or in progress – interest in clinical, educational or research scholarship.   
Other interview component(s) |  Interviewees spend 15-20 minutes each with the co-Program Directors, two Faculty members, and two Neurology Residents currently in the Training Program.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Dalhousie University Adult Neurology Training Program is the only program
in the Maritimes.  As such, the Program has the advantage of a wide variety of
patients with different neurological illnesses.  Our training program is based
at the Halifax Infirmary Hospital in downtown Halifax. Our Faculty have
expertise the vast majority of neurological subspecialty areas; we are the
local and regional referral center for complex neurological disorders.  The
Halifax Infirmary is the home of many of related disciplines that supplement
and enhance the overall training experience (neurosurgical center, cardiac
center, trauma center, EVT center for stroke).  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Curriculum

The Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada (RCPSC) accepts
neurology trainees directly from Medical School into the first of the
(approximately) five years of training required for RCPSC certification in
Adult Neurology.

The Adult Neurology Residency Program Committee (RPC) is responsible for all
aspects of training in neurology at Dalhousie University. The RPC is chaired
by the Program Director. Our RPC supports and follows all of the policies and
procedures of the Faculty of Medicine's Department of Postgraduate Medical
Education; we are also fully complaint with the Maritime Resident Doctors
Collective Agreement.

The RPC provides our residents with in-depth experiences in all aspects of
adult neurology with a focus on both inpatient and outpatient care.  Our
training experiences adhere to the principle of graded responsibility.

Most clinical rotations take place at Halifax-based hospitals. It is expected
that Residents will complete a portion of their community-based training at
affiliated centers in Sydney Nova Scotia, or in New Brunswick or Prince Edward
Island.

The goals and objectives of our program follow the RCPSC Competency Based
Medical Education (CBME) model, with an emphasis on the CanMEDS roles.
Neurology training at Dalhousie consists of four standardized stages:

  1. Transition to the Discipline of Neurology
  2. Foundations of Neurology
  3. Core Training in Neurology
  4. Transition to Independent Practice

Each of the four CBME stages takes place over a variable number of four-week
'blocks'; 13 blocks roughly correspond to an academic year. The term post-
graduate year (PGY) is used to describe a resident's academic year of training
for the purposes of salary and other administrative requirements.

Within each CBME stage, residents acquire the knowledge and skills necessary
to complete a number of specific, RCPSC defined Entrustable Professional
Activities (EPAs). EPAs are the 'building blocks' necessary to become a
competent neurologist in Canada.

Over the course of their training, the EPAs in each stage are evaluated on a
regular basis by the RPC Competence Committee, which is responsible for
promoting residents from one stage of training to the next.  The Competence
Committee evaluates resident performance in a variety of ways (including
EPAs), and is ultimately responsible for certifying that a Resident meets the
necessary requirements to take the two components (written and practical) of
the RCPSC qualifying examination in Adult Neurology.

  * The **Transition to Discipline** stage takes place at the beginning of the PGY-1 year, and takes place over three blocks. The purpose of this stage is to provide an orientation to the Neurology residency program, including the hospital environment, with a focus on the inpatient neurology unit. In this stage, residents focus on assessing, presenting, and documenting basic neurological examinations, formulating a differential diagnosis, and suggesting investigations.  

Our TTD residents also take part in a 'Neurology Bootcamp' which provides more
detailed training around a variety of specific topics for new residents.

  * The **Foundations** stage takes place during the remaining 10 blocks of the PGY1 year. In this stage, residents assess and provide initial management for patients with acute neurological emergencies and common neurological presentations. They learn to recognize and localize abnormal clinical findings and identify abnormal findings on neuroimaging. They learn to perform lumbar punctures.
  * The **Core** stage takes place in the PGY2 - PGY4 years. In this stage, residents build on foundational skills and their approach to assessing and managing patients with acute and chronic neurological presentations in cases with greater complexity. They perform special neurological examination techniques and procedures and request and interpret reports of advanced investigations. They lead patient care teams and communicate with patients and families in complicated situations. This stage also includes maintaining clinical records and managing adverse events.

During the Core stage, our residents further enhance their skills through a
monthly longitudinal clinic, which affords them the opportunity to follow
selected patients over time.  Our program has introduced a dedicated lumbar
puncture clinic in the Core rotation to afford residents the opportunity to
obtain sufficient LP experience to complete relevant EPAs.

At the end of the PGY4 year, residents who have successfully completed their
training to this point will be allowed to complete the written component of
the RCPSC Adult Neurology examination.

  * The **Transition to Practice** stage takes place in the final (PGY5) year of training. The focus of this stage is the development and demonstration of independence in patient care. By the end of this stage, residents independently manage a neurological inpatient service, outpatient practice, and offsite consultations for patients with any condition, including complex diagnoses and undifferentiated neurological conditions. This stage also focuses on implementing a plan for lifelong learning and continuing professional development.

At the end of the PGY5 year, residents who have successfully completed their
training (and who have also completed the RCPSC written exam) will be allowed
to complete the practical component of the RCPSC Adult Neurology examination.

In addition to the four CBME stages, our residents are exposed to a variety of
other educational experiences, including weekly Neuroscience Grand Rounds and
Academic Half Day, monthly Journal Club, weekly 'Friday at Noon' teaching
seminars, and a variety of formal sub-specialty and clinical rounds.

Each resident is required to participate in academic / scholarly work during
their training.  Residents meet regularly with our Research Coordinator to
facilitate this aspect of their training.

Elective time is available in all years from PGY2 onward.  Regional, national,
and international electives are encouraged provided that they meet the
requirements of our training program, and respect any government or
university-based travel restrictions.

Residents in our program provide on-call services with faculty supervision
from the PGY1 to the PGY5 years. This aspect of their work aligns with the
requirements of the Collective Agreement with Maritime Resident Doctors. On
call responsibilities increase as training progresses, with PGY4 and PGY5
residents taking 'senior call' as part of their Transition to Practice.

Scholarly Activity  
  

All trainees are expected to participate in scholarly activity which may
include clinical research, a basic science project, educational research, and
/ or a quality assurance project. We have a very active Neurology Training
Committee which will assist in choice of project and supervision. All trainees
have the opportunity to have specified time dedicated to doing a research
project. Local areas of expertise include cerebrovascular disease, movement
disorders, EEG/Epilepsy, EMG/Neuromuscular disease, neuro-ophthalmology,
headache, dementia, neuro-oncology and multiple sclerosis.

  
  

Seminars and Learning Resources  
  

Weekly clinical neuroscience rounds are held in conjunction with neurosurgery,
neuropathology, neuroradiology and pediatric neurology. The academic half-day
includes basic science and clinical neurology sessions. There is a monthly
journal club, which emphasizes the principles of evidence-based medicine.
Weekly seminars in clinical electrophysiology (EEG, EMG) alternate with
general neurology and neuroradiology seminars (otherwise known as Friday Noon
Teaching Seminars). Numerous other subspecialty-specific rounds (including
Morbidity and Mortality Rounds) and other sessions offered by Internal
Medicine occur on a regular basis.



Residents are funded to attend one national or international meeting per
academic year.



Residents have access to the on-line resources of the Dalhousie Medical
Library and other electronic learning resources (such as UpToDate). These can
be accessed at computer stations dedicated for resident use in the neurology
division.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

Training Sites:

\- Queen Elizabeth II Health Sciences Centre

\- IWK Health Centre

There are 33 beds on the inpatient neurology services at the Queen Elizabeth
II Health Sciences Centre - these encompass our Acute Stroke Unit, General
Neurology Service, and our inpatient Epilepsy Monitoring Unit.

There are over 250 beds and 52 residents in the internal medicine and
subspecialty programs. The Queen Elizabeth II Health Sciences Centre is a 1075
bed multispecialty hospital with primary, secondary and tertiary care roles.
Close interaction occurs with the neurosurgery and pediatric neurology
programs, as well as with neuropathology and neuroradiology.

There are thirteen university full time and seven university part time
neurologists in the Dalhousie Division of Neurology. All of the neurologists
participate in the residency training program. The neurology program has a
usual quota of ten to twelve residents. The patient load per resident is
usually between five to ten, depending on which service the resident is
rotating.



_NOTE: All Dalhousie residency programs are required to have 10% of their
residency training outside of Halifax Regional Municipality as stipulated in
the most recent Academic Funding Plan set out by the Department of Health and
Wellness. Please be aware that if matched to Halifax, as part of your training
you will be expected to complete at least one rotation in either Sydney Nova
Scotia, Saint John New Brunswick, or Charlottetown Prince Edward Island._



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27194?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27194