#  University of Manitoba - Plastic Surgery - Winnipeg

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Christian Petropolis  
Dr. Courtney Wilkes  

Address Plastic Surgery  
AE101  
820 Sherbrook Street  
Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3A 1R9  

Work  (204) 787-8036

Fax

Websites of Interest [ University of Manitoba Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery
](https://manitobaplasticsurgery.com/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Ellie Wiebe

Title: Program Administrator

Email: plastic.surg@umanitoba.ca

Phone: (204) 787-8036

  

* * *

# Important Information

The Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation, which is **mandatory** , will
be held on **Thursday, June 26, 2025.  
**

**  Competency Based  Education**

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/competence-design-e), aims to enhance
patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving
patient needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education
process.

CBD will use [time as a
framework](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e)
rather than the basis for progression. It is not anticipated that the duration
of training will change for the majority of trainees. Residency programs will
be broken down into
[stages](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/documents/cbd/cbd-competence-
continuum-diagram-legal-e.pdf), and each stage will have a series of
milestones based on required competencies. These milestones will create more
targeted learning outcomes and involve more frequent, formative assessments
within the clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving
feedback on the skills they need.

The Royal College anticipates that all specialty and subspecialty programs in
Canada will adopt CBD in gradual phases. All disciplines have been divided
into seven cohort groups, each of which will adopt CBD at different times. As
our new PGY1s enter training in July, the class of 2026 will be entering into
the Foundations phase.

All CBD programs continue to undergo the same rigorous accreditation processes
as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and traditional programs) will
continue to lead to Royal College approved certification. Certification for
trainees in both CBD and traditional programs will include the completion of a
Royal College examination; however, residents in CBD programs will also be
assessed against program milestones throughout their training. Within a CBD
program, all milestones (documented within an electronic portfolio) and the
Royal College examination must be successfully completed to achieve
certification.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

\- Electives outside of the province or outside of the country can be
arranged.

\- Ratio of residents to staff is 1:1

- Very high clinical volume

\- Engaged teaching staff

\- Mentorship based rotations

\- Internet access available

\- Presentation(s) at the Annual Plastic Surgery Residents' Day

\- There are no mandatory rural rotations, but there is a community rotation.

You are required to fulfill ALL of the most current Provincial Criteria for
Canadian Medical Graduates for Manitoba

The criteria can be found at:  <https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. Greater emphasis will be placed on
letters written by members of the Canadian Society of Plastic Surgeons.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter should state what you feel is of importance about yourself -
that makes you a good candidate for Plastic Surgery and why you have chosen
Plastic Surgery as your specialty.

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

Copies of the Abstract portion of any papers published in the medical
literature should be sent.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All applications are reviewed by our Selection Committee. These are ranked and
a short list is developed. All applicants are then notified as to whether or
not they will be invited to interview.



* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 29, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Short listed candidates will be
interviewed. The section will contact short-list candidates (we will contact
applicants who are not granted an interview).  
  
Please see interview dates below:  
  
January 29, 2025  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process:  
  
Interviews are 15 minutes in length (x 2), conducted by faculty members of the
Section of Plastic Surgery, along with a senior and junior resident.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The Section of Plastic Surgery at the University of Manitoba is committed to a
fair, equitable and transparent application process. We maintain the right to
choose the applicants we feel are the best people for our residency training
program. The following criteria will be used as a baseline to determine who
will be considered for an interview. However, not all applicants whose files
meet our minimum criteria will be offered interviews. Please see Plastic
Surgery Criteria below.

\- Graduate from an accredited medical school.

\- Must either be a Canadian citizen or have permanent resident status.

\- Must have a demonstrated interest in the surgical subspecialty to which
they have applied.

\- Has never had disciplinary action from a medical regulatory authority.

\- Not more than 2 years since either medical school graduation or active
clinical practice.

\- Reference letters must be current (within the last 6 months). Outdated
reference letters will not be accepted.

\- Demonstrated ability to be organized as evidenced by a complete application
that is in accordance with our stated expectations.

Extraneous documents are not needed and may lower your file assessment score.

## Program goals

The primary goal of the University of Manitoba Plastic Surgery Residency
Program is to guide all trainees through a comprehensive five year program,
whereupon completion, the resident is prepared to practice as a consultant
Plastic surgeon, as recognized by the FRCSC designation from the Royal College
of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.



The residency program maintains a desirable teaching environment through a
2:1, or better, teacher to learner ratio, and exposure to teaching faculty
with fellowship training in all subspecialties of Plastic Surgery.



The program supports protected time for residents to participate in an
organized academic half day, with additional sub speciality teaching sessions.



The program provides opportunity for individual development of trainees, and
the ability to achieve excellence rather than competence.  Trainees interested
in research inclination can pursue a one year MSc. degree.



The policies and guidelines of the University of Manitoba, the Royal College
of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, and the Professional Association of
Residents and Interns of Manitoba are honored and upheld by the program.

## Selection process goals

Successful candidates for the University of Manitoba Plastic Surgery Program
should demonstrate a strong interest in Plastic surgery and an understanding
of the challenges commonly faced by trainees.



Successful candidates for the program should demonstrate a work ethic suitable
for the rigors of a five year surgical residency through other accomplishments
outlined in their application or interview.

## File review process

Review team composition : The University of Manitoba CaRMS Committee for
Plastic Surgery is composed of six faculty, including the Program Director,
teaching faculty and 2 residents, including both senior and junior level
residents. The CaRMS Committee is supported by our Program Administrator
throughout the process.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  General understanding of the applicant   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Interest in the discipline   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  no additional assessments required   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Commitment to the community and work ethic   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of leadership skills   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Interpersonal skills   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in the discipline, work ethic and interpersonal skills   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Interpersonal skills, professionalism, work ethic   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in the discipline   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We prefer applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work in a team   
Collegiality |  Interpersonal skills   
Communication skills |  Ability to identify and describe problems   
Health advocacy |  No additional assessment required   
Interest in the discipline |  Level of exposure to and understanding of the discipline   
Interest in the program |  Understanding of features of the program and of the city of Winnipeg   
Leadership skills |  Notable leadership experience   
Professionalism |  Appropriate communication and behaviour   
Scholarly activities |  Research and education experience   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  The CaRMS Committee will consider relevant information arising from
an elective or rotation at the institution.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Curriculum**

The residency training program at the University of Manitoba complies with
Royal College guidelines for five years of training. The program consists of
two core years, followed by three years of clinical plastic surgery. For those
residents who complete the program and are interested in Fellowship training,
further assistance will be given to ensure that appropriate placement can be
made.

A Program Description Booklet and Training Objectives by Rotation (PGY-1 - 5)
Syllabus are available, upon request.

Our academic year is divided into 13 periods. The first year resident will
complete the following mandatory rotations:

**PGY-1** :

\- 1 period - Gold Surgery (General Surgery/Acute Care)

\- 1 period - Green Surgery (Surgical Oncology)

\- 1 period - Pediatric Surgery

\- 3 periods - Plastics

- 1 period - ENT

\- 1 period - Oral Surgery

- 2 periods - Orthopedic Surgery (one hand & one trauma) 

- 1 period - Surgical Foundations

\- 1 period - Research (Plastic Surgery)

\- 1 period - Vacation

**PGY-2**

- 1 period - SICU (HSC)

\- 1 period - Vascular Surgery

\- 1 periods - Plastic Surgery

\- 3 periods - Pediatric Plastic Surgery

\- 4 periods - Junior Trauma Plastic Surgery

\- 3 periods - Burns

Overall:  14 months of Plastic Surgery in the first two years (Plastics &
Research)

 **PGY-3 to 5**

The clinical years of plastic surgery education are split into 3 month
rotations, to allow exposure to different attendings and all areas of plastic
surgery.

**Program Structure**

The Section of Plastic Surgery Program is monitored by the Plastic Surgery
Residency Program Committee, consisting of staff and residents, that
continually monitor the program in both the core and plastic surgery years.
Feedback or concerns from residents are received and taken forward to the
Section for implementation.

**Formal Teaching**

- Surgical Foundations Seminar Series (PGY 1 & 2)

\- Thursday afternoon academic half-day (1 hr resident presentation, 1 hr
staff/attending presentation OR 1 hr oral exam type round)

\- Wednesday morning hand rounds alternating with St. B Photo Rounds (with
quarterly M & M rounds in lieu of)

\- Once monthly anatomy - cadaveric dissections

\- Monthly journal club

\- 2 to 3 Complicated Rounds annually - case presentations to review clinical
examination and management of complex problems

\- Annual Oral Sectional Exam, Annual Canadian In-Training Examination for
PGY3-5 (Canadian Society of Plastic Surgeons), Annual American In-Training
Examination for PGY3-5 (American Board of Plastic Surgeons)

**Research**

We have a Director of Resident Research within the Section of Plastic Surgery.
All residents are expected to prepare a research paper yearly for Residents'
Research Day and are encouraged to submit papers for the Annual Meeting of the
Canadian Society of Plastic Surgeons and the Annual Meeting of the American
College of Surgeons - local chapter. Upon approval by the Section, funding for
travel is available for PGY1-5's to present papers at meetings. The Department
of Surgery employs a Biostatistical Analyst.  An emphasis is placed on
clinical trials research.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Resources**

\- Health Sciences Centre - General Centre -[HSC Website](https://hsc.mb.ca/)

\- Health Sciences Centre - Children's Hospital - [Children's Hospital
](https://hsc.mb.ca/)

\- St. Boniface General Hospital - [St Boniface
Hospital](https://stbonifacehospital.ca/)

\- Victoria General Hospital - [Victoria Hospital](https://vgh.mb.ca/)

\- Pan Am Clinic - [Pan Am Clinic](https://www.panamclinic.org/)

\- Free standing surgery facilities/cosmetic surgery centres (2)



**Educational Resources**

\- Library facilities are available at the Medical College, Health Sciences
Centre, St. Boniface General Hospital, along with the Section of Plastic
Surgery Library

\- Microsurgery lab with two microscopes, animal facilities

\- Craniofacial plating lab with plastic skulls, miniplates

\- Funding is provided to allow attendance at one conference per year in years
PGY-1-5. Funding for travel is also made available upon sectional approval for
PGY1-5 residents to present at meetings.

\- One or two visiting professors of international stature are brought in each
year for a full day with the section.

\- Resident's lounge with computers

* * *

# Additional Information

**Winnipeg is a city offering great arts and culture, neighbourhoods,
recreational activities for all seasons and spectator sports.  **

**Winnipeg is located in the centre of Canada and offers great accessibility
by air and car.  A less than 5 hour direct flight can take you to the beaches
of Mexico!**

**Winnipeg offers competitive taxes, affordable housing, and low utility
rates.**

**For more information on the City of Winnipeg, Province of Manitoba and
Ontario Lake of the Woods please visit the websites provided below:**

### low:

### **[City of Winnipeg](http://www.winnipeg.ca/interhom/)**  

### **[Travel Manitoba](https://www.travelmanitoba.com/)**

### **[Moving to Winnipeg](http://www.winnipeg.ca/interhom/guide/)**

### **[Living in Winnipeg](http://www.economicdevelopmentwinnipeg.com/why-
winnipeg/living-here)**

### **[Moving to Manitoba](http://residents.gov.mb.ca/moving.html)**

### **[The Forks - Winnipeg's Meeting Place](http://www.theforks.com/)**

### **[Winnipeg Jets NHL Team](https://www.nhl.com/jets)**

### **[Winnipeg Blue Bombers CFL Team](https://www.bluebombers.com/)**

### **[Winnipeg Goldeyes American Association of Independent Professional
Baseball Team](http://goldeyes.com/)**

### **[Canada's Royal Winnipeg Ballet](https://www.rwb.org/)**

### **[Royal Manitoba Theatre Centre](http://www.royalmtc.ca/)**

### **[Winnipeg Symphony Orchestra](https://wso.ca/)**

### **[Winnipeg Fringe Festival](http://www.winnipegfringe.com/)**

### **[Winnipeg Jazz Festival](http://jazzwinnipeg.com/)**

### **[Festival du Voyageur](https://festivalvoyageur.mb.ca/)**

### **[Ontario Lake of the
Woods](https://www.northernontario.travel/fishing/10-facts-about-lake-of-the-
woods)**  



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26285?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26285