#  Memorial University of Newfoundland - Obstetrics and Gynecology - St.
John's  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on January 10, 2025

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Maria Kielly  

Address Discipline of Obstetrics and Gynecology  
Health Sciences Centre , Room H2839  
300 Prince Philip Drive  
St. John's NL A1B 3V6 , Newfoundland and Labrador, A1B 3V6  

Work  709-864-6606

Work

Websites of Interest [ Discipline of Obstetrics & Gynecology
](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/obsgyn/)  
[ Postgraduate Medical Education ](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/pgme/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Ms. Lisa Trask

Title: Academic Program Administrator

Email: obsgyneresidency@mun.ca

Phone: 709-864-6606

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please review Memorial University's [Provincial
Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/) and admission requirements for postgraduate medical education.



**Orientation**

Applicants who match to Memorial University must attend orientation during the
last week of June. Details will be provided in March 2025.



**MUN ObGyn Residency Information Session**

Thank you for your interest in training with us in obstetrics and gynecology!
Memorial University's program is dynamic and unique due to its small size,
with close interaction and good rapport between residents and faculty. The
program is geared towards producing an excellent generalist in obstetrics and
gynecology, although recent years have seen a number of graduates enter
competitive subspecialties across North America. Our size allows flexibility
to meet resident needs and special interests, which is a high priority for us.

Please be sure to join us for the MUN ObGyn Residency Information Session:

**Date:** October 30th, 2024

**Time:** 9 PM - 11 PM NDST

<https://mun.webex.com/mun/j.php?MTID=mf9d19dc7bdde8cde585e796270cc10fe>

Meeting number: 2771 286 6464

Password: j3mS8J7yjTs



Join by video system

Dial [27712866464@mun.webex.com](mailto:27712866464@mun.webex.com)

You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.



Join by phone

+1-709-722-5626 Canada Toll (St.Johns)

+1-416-915-6530 Canada Toll

 Access code: 277 128 66464

* * *

# Return of Service

CMGs/USMGs:

No return of service (RoS) is required for CMG seats in the first iteration.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Application is in English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Exemption to English language proficiency testing**

  * If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States where English is the language of instruction, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.  
    * **If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States which provides training in multiple language streams, please self-identify which stream you graduated from, e.g. English-Stream, French-Stream, Spanish-Stream, etc.**

**Who is required to provide English Language Proficiency?**

  * If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States where the language of instruction is not in English (e.g. French) you are required to provide proof of proficiency in the English language. It is important to note that this requirement extends to all such applicants, regardless of whether other secondary/post-secondary education took place in English and regardless of citizenship.

The accepted English language proficiency exams, and the required scores, are
as follows:

  * International English Language Testing System - Academic (IELTS-Academic), with a minimum score of **7**  in each of the components in the same sitting;
  * Occupational English Test - Medicine (OET-Medicine), with a minimum grade of **B**  in each of the four subsets in the same sitting;
  * Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program Test - General (CELPIP-General), with a minimum score of **9**  in each of the four skills in the same sitting.

Exams must be dated within 24 months of the residency start date (July 1).
Results must be available by the CaRMS document review deadline.

Examinations

Optional - will be reviewed

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If applicable.



Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three reference letters required. No specific guidelines but letters from
faculty are preferred.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Insight into the candidate's motivations for applying to the field and to
Memorial University:

\- Why have you chosen the specialty of obstetrics and gynecology?  
\- Why have you chosen to apply to Memorial?  
\- What do you feel you can contribute to our program?  
\- Are there any interesting facts that you would like the selection committee
to consider?



Custom Résumé / CV

Memorial Declaration for Interruptions

ALL applicants must submit the [Declaration of Interruptions
](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/pgme/current-learners/forms/)form with their
application.

Consent for disclosure

ALL applicants must submit the [Consent to
Disclose](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/pgme/current-learners/forms/) form with
their application.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

If applicable, order from your Registrar's Office.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 6, 2025
  * February 7, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be offered to interested
candidates based on selection criteria.  The interviews will take place
virtually on February 6 and February 7, 2025.  
  
Details regarding the interview process:  
  
Applicants selected for an interview will be contacted to make arrangements
for an interview time.  We will be conducting virtual interviews that enable
us the opportunity to see and talk with the applicant.  You will have two
seperate interviews, one with residents and one with attending staff from our
department.  The interviews last approximately twenty minutes each and provide
you with ample opportunity to ask questions.  
  
  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We are interested in candidates with a good academic record, excellent
interpersonal skills, and a commitment to the discipline of obstetrics &
gynecology. We have an extremely close-knit and dedicated set of residents and
seek enthusiastic candidates to join this group.

## Program goals

Our program prides itself on its small size and resulting personal
interactions amongst staff, residents and clerks. We are fortunate to have a
multifaceted training program that focuses on academic and surgical
excellence, research and community based experiences. Our goal is to train
well-rounded clinicians and surgeons who take pride in their skills and
knowledge and who will advocate for Women's Health through their future
practices across Canada and beyond.

More specifically, we aim to provide a family centered environment for optimal
care of the mother and fetus, at all levels of perinatal risk, throughout
pregnancy, birth, and the postpartum period.  We also aim to provide quality
care in gynecologic oncology, with diagnosis and treatment through surgical
and medical, palliative and holistic methods.  In the field of reproductive
endocrinology and infertility, we strive for effective diagnostic and
treatment regimens including the provision of appropriate means of assisted
reproduction.  Finally we want to provide quality care in general gynecology,
including adolescent gynecology and urogynecology, including the introduction
of effective new approaches in patient care.



The department strives to ensure that our trainees receive a comprehensive,
evidence based education leading to clinical competency in the provision of
both routine and medically challenging women's health care.  As a department,
one of our longstanding goals is the development and conduct of clinical and
basic research, and provide trainees witht the knowledge and skills to be
life-long contributors to their fields.  

## Selection process goals

We are interested in candidates with a good academic record, excellent
interpersonal skills, and a commitment to the discipline of obstetrics &
gynecology. We have an extremely close-knit and dedicated set of residents and
seek enthusiastic candidates to join this group.  Successful candidates will
have a proven record of academic excellence, leadership skills and the ability
to function as a member of a team.  

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team consists of three faculty members,
including the program director, and 4-6 resident members. Committee members
review and rank applicant files, conduct interviews, and decide upon the final
rank list order.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  A broad range of education, life experience, volunteer work.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  A variety of electives, indicating strong interest in the field. On-site elective is not mandatory.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  MCCQE Part I will be reviewed if submitted.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Social accountability; activities with a team focus.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Demonstrated leadership capabilities.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Satisfactory to exemplary performance, without issues of professionalism noted.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Insight into the candidate's motivations for applying to the field and to Memorial University. We request a word count maximum of 500 words.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  References that provide insight into the candidates performance, and ability to work in a team.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research experience, particularly in obstetrics & gynecology, is valued.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Briefly reviewed.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Demonstrated ability to collaborate with others.   
Collegiality |  Collegiality and potential fit within our Program is highly valued.   
Communication skills |  To communicate in a clear, concise, and professional manner throughout the interview process.   
Health advocacy |  A commitment to women's health advocacy is valued.   
Interest in the discipline |  Keen interest and passion for the Specialty is essential.   
Interest in the program |  Candidates should be familiar with our program, and further discussion is welcome.   
Leadership skills |  A demonstrated history of leadership and demonstration of leadership skills.   
Professionalism |  Professionalism is highly valued in all candidates.   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component. This is evaluated elsewhere.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Memorial has a small, responsive program with close resident and staff
interaction.

We boast a strong research program with extensive research opportunities and
support.

There are no postgraduate subspecialty fellows, which allows maximum exposure
of our residents to interesting and difficult cases.

There is excellent potential for community rotations in Clarenville, Grand
Falls-Windsor, Corner Brook and Moncton, NB, with plenty of valuable hands on
experience, and expanded responsibility commensurate with level of training.

We have a dedicated faculty with extensive teaching and Royal College exam
preparation experience.

We are very proud of our expanding minimally invasive gynecology and
simulation programs.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

As with obstetrics & gynecology programs nation-wide, the training program for
all candidates has shifted to a competence based medical education model
(Competence by Design - CBD).  While trainees progress through the four stages
of training, the Residency Training Committee has opted to continue with a
rotation-based curriculum in order to ensure immersion into the various areas
of training.  Trainees will be paired with academic advisors to help guide
them through their CBD training.

**PGY 1**

PGY 1 focuses on an immersion into the specialty of obstetrics & gynecology,
with rotations designed to establish the foundational skills in the specialty
and meet the initial requirements of the Obstetrics & Gynecology and Surgical
Foundations Competence By Design programs.

Rotations include the following 13 four-week rotations/blocks:

**3  blocks** - **Obstetrics/Gynecology (St. John's)**

**2  blocks -  ****Obstetrics/Gynecology (Clarenville)**

**2 blocks -   Internal Medicine**

**2 blocks -   General Surgery**

**1 block  \- Emergency Medicine **

**1 block - Urology**

**1 block - Neonatal Intensive Care**

**1 block - Selective  **

** **

Four weeks of vacation are included throughout the 13 blocks.

Throughout PGY 1, Friday afternoons are protected time for the obstetrics &
gynecology academic half day.

**_In addition, residents are required to successfully complete the Surgical
Foundations program and have protected time for lectures and simulation
sessions.   The Surgical Foundations CBD program has its own program director
and competence committee, separate from your home program, that determines a
trainee's competence and progression through the next stages of training._**

**PGY 2**

A core year in general obstetrics & gynecology, this year provides an
excellent training base with a balance of clinic, case room, operating room,
and emergency department exposure from an obstetrics & gynecology perspective.
ICU rotations will also occur during this year.

Your first research rotation is often built into this year as well.

**PGY 3 and PGY 4**

Expands the breadth of subspecialty expertise including: reproductive
endocrinology & infertility, maternal-fetal medicine (including ultrasound),
ICU, gynecologic oncology, medical endocrinology, urogynecology, and
outstanding community rotations in Moncton, NB, Grand Falls-Windsor and Corner
Brook where residents acquire extensive operating experience.

There is also ample exposure to colposcopy in a dedicated rotation.

**PGY 5**

Includes several months of experience as chief resident to both obstetrics &
gynecology. Additional experience in general obstetrics & gynecology is
provided during this year, functioning at a junior consultant level.

Remaining core rotations or elective time may also be undertaken. Faculty are
extremely supportive of the need for residents to study and practice for the
Royal College exam at this time, resulting in excellent pass rates over the
last 10 years.

  
  

**Academics and Research:**  

Teaching is provided through _3 weekly events:_

  * Friday afternoon from 1 to 4 pm is _protected time_ for all residents, where faculty provide seminars from September to June. (During the summer, Friday afternoon sessions are resident directed and often end with a social event).
  * Tuesday and Thursday mornings from 8 to 9 am are _protected time_ for interactive Case Rounds and Grand Rounds.
  * There are also _protected_ monthly Journal Clubs and Morbidity and Mortality Rounds.
  * Tuesday evenings from 4:30 - 6:00 pm: Surgical Foundations - _Mandatory_ for all _PGY 1_ and _PGY 2_ residents in general surgery, orthopedic surgery and obstetrics & gynecology

Each year there is one excellent hands-on full-day porcine laparoscopic
laboratory session, in addition to regular dry laparoscopic simulation
experiences.

At least two research projects must be undertaken during the postgraduate
years, for which there is ample faculty support.

The Masters and diploma programs in clinical epidemiology are optional and
well supported by the department.  

Residents are expected to present twice during the program on the Annual
Resident Research Day and often present research results elsewhere in the
country.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

**Health Sciences Centre** , 300 Prince Philip Drive, St. John's, Newfoundland
and Labrador, A1B 3V6

**Janeway Children's Health and Rehabilitation Centre** , 300 Prince Philip
Drive, St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador, A1B 3V6

**Central Newfoundland Regional Health Centre** , 50 Union Street, Grand
Falls-Windsor, Newfoundland and Labrador, A2A 2E1

**Western Health Regional Hospital** , 1 Brookfield Avenue, Corner Brook, NL,
A2H 6J7

**Dr. G. B. Cross Memorial Hospital** , 67 Manitoba Dr, Clarenville, NL, A5A
1K3



**The Moncton Hospital,** 135 Macbeath Ave, Moncton, NB, E1C 6Z8

* * *

# Additional Information

Thank you for your interest in training with us in obstetrics and gynecology!
Memorial University's program is dynamic and unique due to its small size,
with close interaction and good rapport between residents and faculty. The
program is geared towards producing an excellent generalist in obstetrics and
gynecology, although recent years have seen a number of graduates enter
competitive subspecialties across North America. Our size allows flexibility
to meet resident needs and special interests, which is a high priority for us.



If you have any further questions about our program or what we have to offer,
after reading our program profile, please contact our office. Faculty or
residents from the program would be pleased to tell you more about what we are
like and what we have to offer. A word of **warning to candidates** from
outside of Newfoundland: residents who come from away often get to the end of
their training and are _**too attached to leave "the Rock"!**_



**MUN OBGYN CaRMS Social 2025 -  Hosted by Sarah Herst**

Wednesday, February 5, 2025

8:30 - 10:00 pm

Come join the MUN OBGYN residents for a fun and informal social prior to CaRMS
interviews - please dress casually, get comfy, and feel free to bring a snack
or beverage while you participate!



<https://mun.webex.com/mun/j.php?MTID=m9b76afe42a4dbb3e5d9c688ab0e9351c>

Meeting number: 2773 978 0438

Password: peWD2pUcs25



Join by video system

Dial [27739780438@mun.webex.com](mailto:27739780438@mun.webex.com)

You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.



Join by phone

+1-709-722-5626 Canada Toll (St.Johns)

+1-416-915-6530 Canada Toll



Access code: 277 397 80438

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27054?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27054