#  University of Ottawa - Psychiatry - Ottawa  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on October 23, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2 click here

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Sephora Tang  

Address Psychiatry  
Ottawa Hospital  
Ottawa, Ontario  

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Psychiatry - Ottawa
](http://www.med.uottawa.ca/psychiatry/eng/index.html )  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Debbie Hall

Title: Program Manager

Email: dehall@toh.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

University of Ottawa Psychiatry – Ask a Resident Night



The University of Ottawa’s Psychiatry Program will be hosting two virtual
information sessions (via Zoom) to share our program features with you.  The
sessions will be hosted by current residents, and we will be prepared to
answer your questions and showcase our program and city.  These sessions are
open only to medical students applying to the CaRMS R-1 Match.  



**Session #1** **Tuesday October 29, 2024 from 6:00 – 8:00pm (Eastern Time)
**

**Session #2** **Tuesday November 5, 2024 from 6:00 – 8:00pm (Easter Time)  **



The Zoom links can be found on the CANPREPP site, on the Events Calendar.
[https://canprepp.ca/](https://canprepp.ca/)  





**All candidates must meet the Ontario Criteria of Eligibility**  found
[here](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-criteria/provincial-
criteria/ontario/).

**COVID-19 vaccination**

Please be aware that most, if not all, hospitals in Ontario have mandatory
COVID-19 vaccination policies in place that require, in the absence of a valid
medical or human rights exemption, proof of vaccination. Acceptable
vaccination must be in accordance with Health Canada. You will be required to
provide an attestation that you meet this requirement as part of the CaRMS
application process and any actual documentation will be collected by the
appropriate institution if matched. These guidelines could change at any time
in accordance with future direction from the Ministry of Health or the
Universities based on information from Public Health.

**Failure to meet or provide proof of any of the stated requirements may
result in an applicant’s file not being reviewed or removed from the Rank
Order List.**

* * *

# Return of Service

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Please visit our [website
](http://www.med.uottawa.ca/psychiatry/eng/index.html)for additional
information about our program.





* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  * Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  * Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  * Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  * Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Language assessment document accepted:  **TOEFL-iBT

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum score of 93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section. The TOEFL iBT Home Edition will be accepted as a substitute for the TOEFL iBT

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:**  must have minimum score of 7.0 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Occupational English Test (OET)
-Medicine

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP)

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum score of 9.0 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Letter of language proficiency

  * Letter of language proficiency is a letter from your Dean attesting that your medical school program of instruction was completed solely in English or French
  * Alternatively, candidates can submit a printout from the [World Directory of Medical Schools](http://www.wdoms.org/) which clearly states that the language of instruction is English or French.

Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site. Please
review specific program descriptions for more information.

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

A passing score of MCCEE Part 1 is required to apply.

**Results must be provided by File Review Date.**

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

**Results must be provided by File Review Date.**

  * **Note:  MCCQE part II passing score can be used to apply instead of the NAC passing score.**

Reference documents

Required

Applicant support form  Number requested: 3

Traditional letters of reference are no longer accepted for this program. Your
referee must complete the required structured reference form. Please include
this link in your reference request:
<https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/2025-Psychiatry-Structured-Reference-Letter-EN.pdf>

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Personal letter (under 500 words) describing how your background and
experiences have led to an interest and commitment to a career in psychiatry,
and your understanding of the role of psychiatrists in the Canadian health
care system. Letters exceeding the 500 words limit will not be reviewed.

Custom Résumé / CV

Level of responsibility (observer, student, resident, other trainee status,
independent practice, etc) should be specified for each clinical experience
listed in the CaRMS C.V.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

**Must be a graduate from an acceptable medical school listed on the World
Directory of Medical Schools website at<http://www.wdoms.org/>.**

Order from your Registrar. Must be English original or certified translation.



* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Upon opening of the file review period, applicants' files will be reviewed by
a member of the Departmental CaRMS selection committee to ensure departmental
criteria are met.

Candidates selected for an interview can expect to be contacted by late
December 2023

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025
  * January 27, 2025
  * January 28, 2025
  * January 30, 2025
  * January 31, 2025
  * February 3, 2025
  * February 4, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: All candidates will be interviewed during
the national interview period. The interviews will be virtual thru Zoom on
January 21, 23, 24, 27, 28, 30, 31 and February 3 and 4 2025  
  
Chosen applicants will be offered an interview by email in ear;u  \- mid
January 2025  
  
Applicants must then contact the Program Manager, Ms. Debbie Hall
([dehall@toh.ca](mailto:dehall@toh.ca))  to accept or decline the interview.
Interviews not confirmed by the candidate will be cancelled.  
  
Please note that all notifications and correspondence will occur via e-mail.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Applications are reviewed by the
selection committee and the Program Director.  Chosen candidates will be
contacted via Email and invited to attend a virtual interview.  
  
The interview process take place via Zoom, your time and link will be sent via
email.  
  

  * Interviews are conducted by a panel of members of the Selection Committee and a senior resident, this will include both a personal interview and an OSCE
  * The duration of the interview is 50 minutes (30 minutes interview/20 minutes OSCE)

* * *

# Selection Criteria

**Pre-Residency Program**

All International Medical Graduates accepted to all residency programs will be
required to complete the Pre-Residency Program (PRP) prior to entering a
residency program. Matched IMGs will be expected to attend the PRP virtually
and in-person through [Touchstone
Institute](https://touchstoneinstitute.ca/learning/preresidencyprogram/).

The IMG positions are limited and **highly** competitive. The University of
Ottawa program has an established process to evaluate applicants and will not
alter this process for an individual applicant. All applicants will first be
screened based on either their MCCEE or MCCQE1 scores. Any applicant below the
average for the examination or below the top 30% of applicants will not be
considered further. Applicants should provide all scores and feedback sheets
on standardized examinations.

Files selected for further review are assessed based on strong references (one
of which should be from a psychiatrist), the personal letter, and academic
success as demonstrated by transcripts and medical student performance
records. Applicants should have a demonstrated interest in working with
psychiatric patients as indicated by previous training, work, research and
volunteer work.

## Program goals

The  Department of Psychiatry, uOttawa will assist its students in developing
the required knowledge, skills and attitudes of a current, expert, general
Psychiatrist and will enable them to fulfill, with a high degree of
professionalism, the expanded roles of Scholar/Educator, Manager,
Administrator, Health Advocate, Communicator, and Collaborator (CanMEDS 2000).
Attainment of these goals and the CanMEDS competencies will be measured
regularly by rotation specific objectives, by fulfilling the training
requirements and passing the certification examination of the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

## Selection process goals

The candidate who would best fit the University of Ottawa Psychiatry Program
would be hard working, show creative problem solving capacity, have a strong
ability to collaborate with colleagues and patients, and would flourish in a
self directed approach to learning.  Files selected for further review are
assessed based on strong references (one of which should be from a
psychiatrist), the personal letter, and academic success as demonstrated by
transcripts and medical student performance records. Applicants should have a
demonstrated interest in working with psychiatric patients as indicated by
previous training, work, research and volunteer work.  

## File review process

Review team composition : Our file review team is made up of our staff
psychiatrists

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 401 - 600  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We evaluate this file component   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  We evaluate this file component   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  We evaluate this file component   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  We evaluate this file component   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  We evaluate this file component   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We evaluate this file component   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We evaluate this file component   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  On-line interview with panel consisting of staff psychiatrists and
senior residents  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We evaluate this file component   
Collegiality |  We evaluate this file component   
Communication skills |  We evaluate this file component   
Health advocacy |  We evaluate this file component   
Interest in the discipline |  We evaluate this file component   
Interest in the program |  We evaluate this file component   
Leadership skills |  We evaluate this file component   
Professionalism |  We evaluate this file component   
Scholarly activities |  We evaluate this file component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The greatest strength of our program is the exceptional group of engaged and
committed medical educators within the Department of Psychiatry.  Residents
have access to an exceptionally wide breadth of expertise within the
Department.  Beyond the sub-specialties in **Geriatric, Child and Adolescent
**and**  Forensic **psychiatry**,**  there are staff members recognized at the
national and international level for their expertise in many areas including:
1)Addiction Psychiatry, 2)Sleep Medicine, 3)Schizophrenia, 4)Psychotherapy and
5)Psychopharmacology

Other highlights include:

  * Strong teaching faculty offering the national review course in psychiatry annually
  * Opportunity to pursue additional medical education training
  * Opportunity to pursue inter-provincial and international electives (in year 5)
  * No mandatory rural rotations
  * Ratio of residents to faculty is 1:4
  * Strong psychotherapy program
  * Reasonable call frequency
  * Opportunities to do rotations in French and English

And finally, living in Ottawa is fun and easy.  Ottawa gives you the
opportunities found in large metropolitan region without the constant hustle
and bustle.





* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

 Content and Sequence of Training:



**Program** **Stage** |  **Content and Sequence of Rotations** **Months or 4-Week Blocks**  
---|---  
** ** |  **1** |  **2** |  **3** |  **4** |  **5** |  **6** |  **7** |  **8** |  **9** |  **10** |  **11** |  **12** |  **13**  
**Transition to Discipline/Foundation** |  Transition to Discipline stage begins with two blocks in psychiatry.  Foundations stage consists of the remaining blocks  in Internal Medicine, Family Medicine, Endocrinology; Geriatric Medicine; Adult and Child Emergency Medicine; Neurology, Palliative Care; Psychiatric Emergency Service, Addictions, Intellectual Developmental Disorder and Under-Serviced Psychiatry.  
**Foundation/Core** |    Adult General Hospital Inpatient Psychiatry (6 Blocks)   Adult General Outpatient Psychiatry (6 Blocks) |    Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (6 Blocks)   Geriatric Psychiatry (6 Blocks)  
 **Foundation/Core**  
**Core** |    Shared Care  (2-3 blocks) |    Consultation-Liaison Psychiatry (4 Blocks) |  Severe and Persistent Mental Illness (6 blocks)  
**Transition to Practice** |  7 blocks Electives |  6 blocks Electives  
**Description** |  **Duration** |  **Sites in which this training may be taken**  
---|---|---  
Transition to Discipline/Foundations |  12 mos |  Civic, General & MFH & ROH  
Foundations- General Hospital Adult Inpatient psychiatry |  6 mos |  Civic, General, MFH & ROH  
Foundations - General Hospital Adult Outpatient psychiatry |  6 mos |  Civic, General & MFH, ROH  
Core - Child & Adolescent psychiatry |  6 mos |  CHEO & ROH  
Core - Geriatric psychiatry |  6 mos |  ROH & MFH  
Core - Severe & Persistent Mental Illness |  6 mos |  ROH, MFH & General  
Core -Consultation-Liaison psychiatry |  3 mos |  Civic, General, & MFH  
Core - Shared & Collaborative Care |  3 mos |  Civic, General,  & MFH  
Core - Psychotherapy |  8 mos |  All teaching sites  
  |   |    
  




            Civic     =          The Ottawa Hospital Civic Campus

            General =          The Ottawa Hospital General Campus

            CHEO   =          Children’s Hospital of Eastern Ontario

            ROH     =          The Royal Ottawa Hospital

            MFH     =          Montfort Hospital

            QCH     =          Queensway Carleton Hospital



Research

Our program provides a comprehensive seminar series on critical appraisal,
quality improvement and research methodology.  All residents are given
protected time to complete a mandatory scholarly project that is presented at
the Annual Research Day.  



Curriculum  
  

Our Academic Curriculum consists of didactic and clinical skills development
aimed at training residents to become highly qualified psychiatrists.  This
includes organized didactic, interview skills, and psychotherapy modules which
occur throughout the year.

PGY1:

  * Weekly protected half day
  * A portion of the year is organized by the University Postgraduate Medical Education Office for all PGY-1 residents covering key CANMEDs Roles.
  * A series of lectures focused on _Transition to Discipline_  knowledge:
    * Phenomenology and diagnosis
    * Interviewing skills 
    * Emergency psychiatry
    * Suicide and violence risk assessment
    * Basic medico-legal issues
    * Verbal and Oral Communication Skills
    * A series of lectures focused on _Foundations of Discipline_  knowledge:
      * Neuroscience series
      * Cultural Psychiatry Series
      * Management of agitation
      * Management of intoxication/withdrawal
      * Basic psychopharmacology
      * Supportive Psychotherapy
      * Motivational Interviewing 

PGY2 -3:

  * Weekly protected full day 
  * A series of lectures focused on _Foundations of Discipline  _knowledge: 
    * Critical Appraisal Skills
    * Quality Improvement
    * Interview Skills
    * Psychopharmacology
    * Affective Disorders
    * Schizophrenia and Psychotic Disorders
    * Anxiety Disorders
  * A series of lectures focused on _Core of Discipline  _knowledge:
    * Personality Disorders
    * Psychiatric Management Borderline Personality Disorder
    * Adult Psychiatry Boot Camp
    * Geriatric Psychiatry Boot Camp
    * Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Boot Camp 
    * Psychodynamic Psychotherapy 
    * Cognitive Behavioural Therapy
    * Dialectical Behavioural Therapy 
    * Interpersonal Psychotherapy
    * Group Therapy
  * Attend the one-week Ottawa Psychiatry Review Course (PGY3 and 4)



PGY4 - 5:

  * A weekly protected full day
  * A series of lectures focused on _Core of Discipline_  knowledge:
    * Advanced Psychopharmacology 
    * Forensic Psychiatry
    * Short Term Psychodynamic Therapy
    * Treatment of Trauma
    * Consultation Liaison Therapy
  * A series of lectures focused on _Transition to Practice  _knowledge:
    * Leadership
    * Professionalism
    * Social Media Training
    * CV development

    * Attend the one-week Ottawa Psychiatry Review Course (PGY3 and 4)
    * Attend the one-week London Psychiatry Review Course (PGY4 only)

* * *

# Training Sites

Core training sites are:

 The Ottawa Hospital Civic Campus

The Ottawa Hospital General Campus

Children’s Hospital of Eastern Ontario

The Royal Ottawa Hospital

Montfort Hospital









* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27007?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27007