#  University of Alberta - Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology - Edmonton

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on November 25, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Laura Canterbury  

Address Laboratory Medicine and Pathology  
5B2.21 Walter C. Mackenzie Centre  
8440 - 112 Street  
Edmonton , Alberta, T6G 2B7  

780-407-2606

Websites of Interest [ University of Alberta Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology
Residency Training Program ](https://www.ualberta.ca/en/laboratory-medicine-
and-pathology/programs/postgraduate-medical-education---residency-
programs/diagnostic-and-molecular-pathology-and-diagnostic-and-clinical-
pathology/diagnostic-and-clinical-pathology-residency.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: Program Contact

Name: Ms. Kathryn Tomlinson

Title: Program Administrator

Email: kathryn.tomlinson@ualberta.ca

Phone: 780-407-2606

  

Name: Dr. Laura Canterbury

Title: Program Director - Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology

Email: canterbu@ualberta.ca

Phone: 7804072124

  

* * *

# Return of Service

There are no return of service requirements at the University of Alberta.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Please see the Alberta [provincial
criteria.](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/)

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) are required to provide proof of
English language proficiency as determined by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) who completed their medical education in
Quebec or at the University of Ottawa (French Stream) are required to provide
proof of English language proficiency as determined by the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

CMGs who completed their medical education at the University of Ottawa must
indicate on their application which stream they completed (either French or
English).

_For more information on the CPSA English language requirements, please visit
the  [CPSA website](https://cpsa.ca/physicians/registration/english-language-
proficiency/)._

Examinations

Optional - will be reviewed

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

USMLE1

* Score and document(s)

* USMLE - Step 1

USMLE2-CK

* Score and document(s)

* USMLE - Step 2 - Clinical Knowledge (CK)

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Submit only three letters of reference from academic and professional sources,
including:

\- supervisors of clinical rotations or undergraduate electives

\- research or postgraduate supervisors (where applicable)

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Custom Résumé / CV

 Please include educational, research and work experience,
awards/scholarships, publications, and interests outside of medicine.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Personal letter (under 500 words) describing how your background and
experiences have led to an interest in and commitment to a career in general
pathology, and why you are a good fit for this specialty.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

If more than one institution was attended, please include transcripts from all
undergraduate programs.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Candidates selected for an interview will
be contacted to schedule an interview date and time.  Interviews will be
conducted via Zoom.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Candidates will be interviewed by the
residency program director, program administrator, faculty members involved in
residency training and one or more residents.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates are expected to have a good academic record, strong communication
and organizational skills, and a capacity for self-motivation. Research
experience (clinical or basic science) is an asset but not a requirement.  See
"Selection process goals" for further details.

## Program goals

The goal of the program is to train highly competent pathologists who will be
equipped to pursue careers in whatever setting of laboratory medicine they
choose to work, and who will make substantial contributions to their health
care communities as experts in laboratory medicine, collaborators with their
colleagues inside and outside the laboratory, leaders, and teachers.  The
program aims to deliver high-quality training across all the laboratory
medicine disciplines and exposure to a wide variety of laboratory
environments.  

As a generalist specialty, general pathology exists in a diversity of
environments.  The practice of general pathologists varies greatly depending
on geographic location and type of facility.  The available technologies and
test menus will vary, as will the number and training of other staff within
the laboratory, and the clinical physicians and other healthcare providers
receiving the laboratory results.  It is our goal that graduates of our
program are equipped and capable to both pursue their individual goals and
interests, and to meet the needs of the public in whatever community our
graduates find themselves in, be it large or small.  

## Selection process goals

Characteristics of a strong candidate for general pathology include the
following:

  * Genuine interest in and aptitude for pursuing a career in pathology 
    * Although laboratory medicine is a highly rewarding field, it is often not visible to or easily imagined by aspirants to a medical career, and knowledge of what the field entails is essential to satisfaction, both as a trainee and as a staff pathologist.   
  * Excellent communication skills 
    * Communication with clinicians is often solely by means of a written report.  Although face-to-face or telephone discussions with clinicians are certainly used, direct verbal communication is not always possible, and the art of composing a report that is comprehensive, clear, relevant and timely is a key skill. 
  *  Strong organizational skills, self-motivation and intellectual curiosity 
    * A pathology resident, like a staff pathologist, may have multiple duties and face competing demands on their time.  In particular, the breadth and volume of material to be learned in a generalist specialty such as diagnostic and clinical pathology requires a resident to be aware of their individual strengths and weaknesses and be an active driver of their own education.   
  *  Ability to interact and collaborate with a variety of other healthcare professionals 
    * Although a pathologist is a medical expert in laboratory medicine, like all professionals they must be aware of their own limits and seek assistance when required.  Nobody is an expert in absolutely everything.  In addition, pathologists value the expertise of those with whom they work, including that of other non-medical laboratory staff and non-laboratory healthcare professionals.   
  *  Commitment to high standards of quality 
    * Pathologists play a key role in ensuring the quality of laboratory results, upon which so much of patient care depends.  

## File review process

Review team composition : Program director, program administrator,
resident(s), faculty members of CaRMS selection committee

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Educational experience and work history   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We consider and value applicants with broad clinical experiences. However, applicants are expected to have a demonstrable interest in and knowledge of our specialty.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Not evaluated unless optional scores submitted (see further information under Examinations section)   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteer and community service experience, involvement in recreational/athletic activities   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Positions held and skills gained   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evaluations of clerkship rotations & electives, unexplained leaves of absence/extension of training   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Genuine interest in and suitability for career in pathology   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Evidence for aptitude for pathology, professionalism, interpersonal skills   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research experience, skills translatable to laboratory medicine   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Success/failure on medical/pre-medical coursework   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Our program does not favour residents who do electives at our site, and
applicants cannot be expected to complete all their electives in a single
discipline. We consider and value applicants with broad clinical experiences.
However, applicants are expected to have a demonstrable interest in and
knowledge of our specialty.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  All interviews will be occurring virtually by Zoom.  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence from examples from personal experience, discussion of hypothetical scenarios   
Collegiality |  Evidence from examples from personal experience, discussion of hypothetical scenarios   
Communication skills |  Ability to clearly and concisely respond to and ask questions   
Health advocacy |  Knowledge of the role and importance of laboratory medicine in patient care   
Interest in the discipline |  Ability to clearly articulate their reasons for considering pathology   
Interest in the program |  Knowledge of the program and considered what aspects of a program they consider important   
Leadership skills |  Evidence from examples from personal experience, discussion of hypothetical scenarios   
Professionalism |  Exhibits professional behaviour throughout process, can discuss personal/hypothetical scenarios   
Scholarly activities |  Experience and skills pertinent or transferable to laboratory medicine   
Other interview component(s) |  Brief practical challenges related to laboratory medicine may be used during the interview process.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

This is a comprehensive program providing experiences in all facets of
laboratory services in a variety of settings, from rural to tertiary-care
facilities, and including community hospitals and private facilities.

There are no mandatory rural rotations, but residents can and have undertaken
rural laboratory electives.  In addition, residents participate in a
longitudinal rural laboratory management rotation in which each resident is
paired with a rural site for which the resident acts as consultant, along with
their supervisor.

There is a strong cooperative relationship between the laboratory medicine
training programs at the University of Alberta, with a long history of sharing
of resources and human expertise.  Besides the five FRCPC programs, there are
longstanding links with the undergraduate MD and Medical Laboratory Science
programs; more recently, a Pathology Assistant program and Clinical
Biochemistry Fellowship have been added.  These relationships allow pathology
residents to interact with, teach, and learn from their future colleagues.

Research is actively encouraged. All residents are expected to participate in
at least one clinical or basic science project, and to present their results
at an annual departmental research day and, when appropriate, at a national or
international meeting during the course of their training.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

In CBD, the previous structure which divided the programs into PGY years will
instead be replaced by the following 4 stages.  The overall length of the
program is expected to be 5 years for most residents.  

1) Transition to Discipline

  * Includes basic skills and concepts not necessarily covered in medical school, including laboratory safety, microscopy skills, principles of specimen handling and workflow in the laboratory, and basics of laboratory testing.

2) Foundations of Discipline

  * Includes rotations in relevant clinical specialties (Internal medicine, Infectious Disease, Hematology, Medical Oncology, Gynecologic Oncology, Surgery) and exposure to selected procedures such as fine-needle aspiration and bone marrow biopsy. 
  * Experiences in normal histology/morphology, frozen section, autopsy, and grossing of simple specimens are also included, as are experiences in the biochemistry, hematopathology (including transfusion medicine) and microbiology laboratories.   

3) Core of Discipline

  * This stage comprises the bulk of the program (at least three years) and includes:
  * Rotations in anatomic pathology (including selected subspecialty areas such as neuropathology, cytopathology, etc.) and,
  * Rotations in the three clinical pathology areas: biochemistry, hematopathology and microbiology, with exposure to benchwork in the various subdisciplines of each.
  * Trainees will continue to acquire skills and knowledge to become effective and knowledgeable laboratory consultants, not only regarding histology/morphology and the generation of accurate and comprehensive laboratory reports, but also regarding laboratory management.  

4) Transition to Practice

  * In this stage, trainees consolidate their skills to work independently and demonstrate leadership in rounds, teaching and other activities.

* * *

# Training Sites



  * University of Alberta Hospital (UAH): 8440 112 Street NW, Edmonton, AB, T6G 2B7
  * Royal Alexandra Hospital (RAH): 10240 Kingsway Avenue NW, Edmonton, AB, T5H 3V9
  * Misericordia Community Hospital (MCH): 16940 87 Avenue, Edmonton, AB, T5R 4H5
  * Grey Nuns Community Hospital (GNH): 1100 Youville Drive NW, Edmonton, AB, T6L 5X8 
  * Alberta Precision Laboratories Baselab: #200, 10150 - 102 Street NW, Edmonton, AB, T5J 5E2
  * Office of the Chief Medical Examiner (MEO): 7007 116 Street NW, Edmonton, AB, T6H 5R8

The residency programs are based in the university and community laboratories
of the former Capital Health Region, now part of Alberta Health Services. In
addition to a service base of over one million population in Edmonton and the
surrounding communities, specialized clinical programs in the region attract
patients from across western and northern Canada. Elective experiences are
available in a variety of community hospitals. The Edmonton zone also provides
pathologist support for a number of rural hospitals in the northern half of
the province, and experience in acting as a regional consultant is built into
the program.  This combination provides resources for training in laboratory
medicine in general as well as subspecialty areas.



* * *

# Additional Information

**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)**

The University of Alberta recognizes the importance of diversity, equity,
inclusivity, decolonization, and indigenization (EDIDI) and is committed to
the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry’s policy on anti-racism.

Further, the University is committed to implementing the Truth and
Reconciliation Commission calls to action that are relevant to education and
medicine. The pursuit of diversity and equitable opportunities is a core value
that guides our selection practices.

The University encourages applications from underrepresented groups, including
Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women,
persons of a minority gender identity or sexual orientation, and individuals
who would contribute to the diversity of the medical community. The CaRMS
Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) is an optional form that candidates
can fill out.

Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism in residency
selection, but is currently not using the CSIQ as part of our application
process. We are using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable
opportunities for all applicants.

* * *

# FAQ

  1. a)   What are some strengths about your specialty? What draws and keeps people in your specialty?

_The opportunity to understand the nature of disease in an in-depth way that
isn’t achieved in any other specialty. You get to practice scientific
diagnostic medicine over a broad range of subjects and you have a fair degree
of control over your schedule.   You are very much a part of the team taking
care of the patient (it just isn’t as obvious!), and this is becoming even
more apparent in the era of precision medicine.  General pathology in
particular has a great breadth and variety that attracts many of us._

  
_Although there is limited direct contact with patients, there is a great deal
of contact with a variety of clinicians outside the laboratory as well as with
physician, PhD, and technical staff colleagues within the laboratory. We get
satisfaction from the interactions we have with others, and knowing that we
are helping a clinician take the next step in diagnosing or treating a
patient.   The stereotypical image of the reclusive pathologist who stays in
their office and never talks to anyone is rapidly disappearing in today’s
pathology practice.  _

          **b) What are some common complaints about your specialty?**

_There is limited direct clinical contact – you’ll never have an office full
of patients who regard you as their doctor and most pathologists have a
hospital-based practice which can limit professional autonomy._

  
_You often have to sit/stand at a microscope and/or computer a lot, so
sometimes you need to get creative about staying active during the day._  

  2. Why did you choose your specialty?

_Potential breadth of practice. Although it is true that a pathologist who
actively practices in all 4 areas (anatomic pathology, hematopathology,
medical biochemistry, and medical microbiology) is rare today in Canada,
having broad-based training provides some career versatility and that one
could practice in a solo or small rural community or would be able to pursuing
a wide variety of further training through subspecialty fellowships, if such
an interest develops through the course of broad training exposure.   Because
of their knowledge of all laboratory areas, Diagnostic and Clinical pathology
(DCP) trained pathologists are also well situated for leadership roles within
the laboratory.     _

  3. What types of clinical cases do you commonly see?

_The entire range of clinical problems has a counterpart in pathology. You can
practice as a subspecialist or as a generalist depending on your interest and
on the needs of your practice environment._

  4. Briefly describe a typical day.

_It depends upon the setting. Pathologists are involved in rounds, laboratory
supervision, and direct diagnostic work in biopsies, surgical pathology,
hematology, autopsies, etc.   Academics may have teaching and /or research as
a major component of their practice; community-based pathologists often have
major roles in their institutions/medical staff organizations.  Some
pathologists do procedures such as fine-needle aspiration and bone marrow
aspiration and biopsy procurement allowing some direct patient contact.
Evening and weekend call is variable and in many settings is light compared
with many other specialties.  Call is always taken from home and usually the
problems can be solved over the phone or by a brief hospital visit._

  5. a) What are the varieties of lifestyles within your field?

_It is possible to do pathology and do it well and still have a life outside
medicine. Most pathologists work regular office hours and work quite hard
during the day, but don’t haunt the hospitals at night!    Part time pathology
jobs are also a possibility._

          **b) Specifically, how able is your specialty to accommodate family life?**

_Relatively easily. Working hours are regular for pathologists and there is
usually enough flexibility to deal with life’s other demands.  As described,
call is variable in terms of how busy it is, but even during a busier call
week our families still see us! _

  6. Range of incomes?

_In Alberta, pathologists are paid on a standard grid, depending on
experience, and are well-remunerated. Pathologists do have our own specific
overhead costs, but generally do not have the kind of overhead required by
maintaining your own clinic or office._

  7. How do you see your discipline changing over the next decade?

_While morphology will remain the mainstay of diagnosis, there will be
increasing usage of molecular techniques for both diagnosis, prognostic
determination and treatment responses. Gene and cell therapy are also new
frontiers that have much hope for improving treatment outcomes in a wide
variety of conditions. These will be exciting changes._

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26302?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26302