#  McGill University - Anesthesiology - Montreal  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Regular Stream for All  

##  Last approved on November 21, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 7

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Catherine Paquet  

Address Department of Anesthesia  
Glen Site, Royal Victoria Hospital  
1001, boul. Décarie Room C05.2760  
Montreal , Quebec, H4A 3J1  

Work  (514) 934-1934, ext. 35342

Work  514-412-4400, ext. 23486

Websites of Interest [ McGill Anesthesia Department
](https://www.mcgill.ca/anesthesia/education/residency-program)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Donna MacFarlane

Title: Program Administrator

Email: anesthesia@mcgill.ca

Phone: 514-934-1934, ext. 35342

  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

Please pay close attention to the Proof of Citizenship Status requirements in
the Supporting Documentation section. A complete application must include the
documents specified in that section.

Candidates may submit their documents either in English or in French.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP must be submitted with each application.  
EITHER:

  * A copy of Canadian Birth Certificate or a copy of Certificate of Canadian Citizenship

OR

  * A copy of Permanent Resident Card (copy of both sides of the card) OR a copy of an IMM 5292, IMM 1000, IMM 5688;   
NB: the Permanent Resident card can be expired.

OR

  * A copy of Citizenship Card (copy of both sides of the card)

P.S: the passport is not an acceptable proof of citizenship.

Each year, all candidates applying in a CaRMS match must provide proof of
valid current citizenship or permanent resident status. As of the 2021 R-1
match cycle, CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate
the citizenship/legal status verification, which is usually completed by
Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) offices.

if an applicant has had their citizenship/legal status documentation verified
by any of the following organizations for the current R-1 match, the applicant
will not be required to assign a proof of citizenship/PR document (as pictured
in the screenshot below).

  * Medical Council of Canada ([MCC](https://mcc.ca/))
  * British Columbia's Clinical Assessment Program ([BC-CAP](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/clinical-assessment/))
  * Bureau de cooperation interuniversitaire ([BCI](https://www.bci-qc.ca/en/))
  * Alberta International Medical Graduate Program ([AIMG](https://www.aimg.ca/))

For further information, please check the following link on CaRMS:
[https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-
citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-)

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English      French

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the MCCQE Part I exam, please include the statement of
results and supplemental information report in your application.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the NAC exam, please include the statement of results and
supplemental information report in your application. The MCCQE Part II or
Certificate of Registration of the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada
(LMCC) is accepted in place of the NAC Examination.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required.  Letters of reference may be
submitted in either English or French.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

A one-page personal letter addressing the following 4 issues:

  * Describe one of your personal traits that would make you an excellent anesthesiologist and why
  * Describe the most challenging aspect you would have as a McGill Anesthesia resident
  * Describe a situation when you failed, or fell short of your goals
  * Describe what experience/achievement you are most proud of in your life so far

We expect candidates to write their personal letters themselves.  If you
choose to use artificial intelligence (AI) to help in the writing of your
letter, we expect you to disclose which parts were generated or assisted by AI
and explain how the AI was used.  We highly value honesty in this process.

Custom Résumé / CV

4 pages maximum.

Please focus on the following:

educational experiences, extracurricular experiences and personal interests in
the past 6 years.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

This is only used as a memory aid

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

Additional required IMG documents

Lettre de reconnaissance de l'équivalence du diplôme MD

Please provide the results of the exams that permitted you to have your
medical degree recognized and approved by the CMQ.

Graduates with the diploma of doctor of osteopathy awarded by a school of
osteopathic medicine situated in the United States providing that the school
is accredited by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the
American Osteopathic Association do not have to obtain the recognition of the
equivalence of the medical diploma by the CMQ. These graduates do not require
the MCCQE Part I, the National Assessment Collaboration (NAC), or the
Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada (LMCC) in order to apply.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Your application file will be read in its entirety by at least two file
reviewers to determine offers for interviews.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 27, 2025
  * January 28, 2025
  * January 29, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: McGill University will be doing all
interviews virtually using the platform ZOOM. Further details will be
available to those who have been invited to interview. There will be several
interviews and the process is expected to last at least 2 hours.  During the
interview you will also be asked to answer a few written questions.  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: You will be notified by email and
through CaRMS Online if you have been invited for an interview. During the
interview process, you may express yourself in the language of your choice,
either English or French. The personnel and members of the selection committee
with whom you interact during the interviews may reply to you in English, but
will understand you in French. Candidates are asked to indicate their choice
of language **when booking the interview**.  
  
Candidates invited to interview will be asked to confirm by email and will
receive confirmation of the interview date and time by email. They will have
to accept within a certain time-frame since the number of interviews is
limited. It would be therefore important to verify your email regularly during
that time period.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

**Mandatory**

  * Academic excellence
  * 3 letters of reference
  * Less than 4 years from medical training/clinical practice
  * a one-page personal letter addressing the following 4 issues:  

    * Describe a personal trait that would make you an excellent anesthesiologist and why
    * Describe the most challenging aspect you would have as a McGill Anesthesia resident
    * Describe a situation when you failed, or fell short of your goals
    * Describe what experience/achievement you are most proud of in your life so far
  * curriculum vitae of **4 pages** maximum. Please focus on  

    * educational experiences, extracurricular experiences and personal interests **in the past 6 years**
  * CASPer exam

Competitive candidates will be invited to an interview.

Final ranking depends on the file review and interview performance.

## Program goals

The McGill Residency Program in Anesthesiology aims to provide trainees with
excellent clinical training in our University Centre Hospitals that provide
them with the diversity of clinical experiences of the large and multicultural
metropolitan centre that Montreal offers, with staff clinicians trained from
all over the world, with world-renowned researchers, a McGill Simulation
Centre with the latest technologies and excellent Medical Education Department
of McGill. The Program of course prepares each trainee for the Royal College
examinations, but beyond that, provides each trainee with the required strong
base for an excellent anesthesiology career.

Our program has an interesting educational curriculum that integrates
simulation, regional and POCUS workshops and practice oral examinations
throughout the five year training to solidify knowledge acquired during
academic teaching sessions and operating room teachings.

## Selection process goals

We are looking for well-rounded individuals who will contribute not only to
our Residency Program, but also to our Anesthesiology community.

The ideal candidate has a competitive academic file with a curriculum vitae
that highlights a variety of activities and work experience that demonstrate
good communication and collaboration skills, leadership qualities, and a high
level of professionalism. His or her dossier also shows a motivation to learn,
an interest in the discipline of Anesthesia and an interest in the Residency
Program at McGill.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our selection committee includes staff and residents
in the Department of Anesthesia at McGill and is about 20 people in total.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  educational experiences, extracurricular activities, personal interests within the past 6 years   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  electives in anesthesia, pain, ICU, Internal medicine, ER   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  MCCQE, NAC examinations if applicable   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  a variety of activities, within the past 6 years   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  a variety of activities within the past 6 years   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  a competitive file   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  an original honest letter, written by the candidate, that addresses the items mentioned above   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  three good letters of reference   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  experience in research, peer-reviewed abstracts and publications   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  a competitive file   
Other file component(s) |  CASPer exam   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  good collaboration skills   
Collegiality |  a collegial approach   
Communication skills |  good communication skills   
Health advocacy |  community (school or in the broader sense of community) involvement   
Interest in the discipline |  enthusiasm for the discipline   
Interest in the program |  enthusiasm for our program   
Leadership skills |  good leadership skills   
Professionalism |  a high level of professionalism   
Scholarly activities |  the motivation and curiosity to learn   
Other interview component(s) |  There will also be a few written questions to be answered during the interview   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The McGill Residency Program in Anesthesiology offers excellent clinical and
research training in a large multicultural metropolitan centre yet is small
enough that the department and residency program can offer a very flexible and
tailored approach to your learning. We are pleased to announce that we were
granted FULL Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons certification until
2026.

We offer a Junior Residency Orientation Program, or JROP, during the first 10
weeks of the PGY1 and PGY2 years, offering an intensive course in the safe
learning environment offered by the McGill Simulation Centre.

PGY1 residents are mentored by a senior resident, with whom they do their
first calls that first month. Senior residents are involved in all aspects of
the teaching in the JROP program including the lectures, the hands-on
workshops and simulation scenarios. This is a unique experience in medical
education offered to all our trainees. Our JROP program has been in existence
for fifteen years.



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.



**General Description of the Program**  
  

The McGill program is an accredited program of the Royal College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Canada (RCPS) and the Collège des médecins du Québec (CMQ).

RCPSC Guidelines dictate the basic structure of the program, but flexibility
has been maintained to allow interested residents to pursue research or other
academic areas in keeping with their own learning and career goals. Strengths
of the McGill Program include a large and varied patient case load and a solid
curriculum which includes specialty and inter-specialty simulation, and
involvement in education of the junior residents and medical students.  The
McGill program also provides residents with the opportunity to experience life
in the unique cosmopolitan culture of Montreal.

  
  

 This is a 5-year residency program as per the Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Canada standard.

As with all anesthesia programs in Canada, the McGill Residency Program in
Anesthesia implemented our Competency by Design Curriculum starting in July
2017.

There are 4 stages of training:

The Transition to Discipline stage is a 10-week orientation program which
serves to introduce the medical student graduate to the basics of anesthesia.
This is accomplished by intensive sessions with senior residents and staff in
the simulation centre through 11 modules, known as our junior orientation
program. These modules focus on the anesthesia machine, airway management,
fluids and resuscitation, pharmacology, neuraxial anesthesia and obstetrical
anesthesia, post-operative care unit and pain management, and pre-operative
evaluation. These include sessions that review these concepts in follow-up and
synthesis modules. These modules include didactic teaching, interactions with
standardized patients, task trainers and hi-fidelity simulation.

This junior orientation program, which has been an integral part of the McGill
Residency Program in Anesthesia since 2009, is complemented by clinical
exposure to anesthesia at one of the 4 main adult teaching sites.

The Foundations stage of approximately 2 years duration gives the resident an
opportunity to learn and solidify their knowledge and clinical expertise in
general anesthesia, acute pain, and general internal medicine, such as
emergency, critical care, ENT, and obstetrics.  Included in the Foundations
stage is an introduction to bedside ultrasound and to clinical epidemiology
and statistics which serves to introduce the resident to basic concepts in
research to facilitate the development of the residents' critical appraisal
skills. They are also mentored by staff and encouraged to participate in the
development of a research project which can be presented at our Annual
Anesthesia Research Day (Bromage Day).

The Core stage of approximately 2 years duration gives the resident an
opportunity to explore, learn and solidify their knowledge in the major
subspecialty areas in the discipline of Anesthesia, including pediatrics,
neuro, obstetrics, cardiovascular, vascular, regional, thoracics, POCUS, and
chronic pain. Rotations are also completed in internal medicine domains,
particularly cardiac and respirology, and intensive care in adults, and
cardiac (CCU).  Exposure to pediatric and neonatal ICU is possible if desired.

At either Foundations or Core stages, the residents are given the opportunity
to experience clinical work in a more community environment, traditionally in
the beautiful setting of Gatineau-Hull or Valleyfield for example.

The Transition to Practice Stage is designed to give the resident an
opportunity to gain independence in their practice, to focus on their clinical
or research interests in view of their personal goals and objectives.

Throughout the residency program, it is possible to have at least 3 periods of
protected research time and it is also possible to organize rotations at
hospitals interested in hiring after the residency.

**Academic Program**  
  

**Resident Seminar Program**

This program covers the basic areas of anesthesia knowledge. Seminars are held
weekly from September to June, and residents are freed from clinical duties to
attend. The teaching format varies, with a combination of case-based seminars,
resident presentations, and lectures. Visiting professors at McGill are asked
to conduct one of these seminars during their visit.

**McGill Medical Simulation Centre (Steinberg Centre for Simulation and
Interactive Learning)  
**

The McGill Simulation Centre plays an integral role in the McGill Residency
Program. As stated above, the McGill Residency program benefits from a junior
orientation program during the summer months for the PGY1 and PGY2 residents.
This program runs at the McGill Medical Simulation Centre over 11 intensive
learning modules. The teaching done during these modules is done by the senior
residents under the mentorship of McGill Anesthesia staff. This program helps
to consolidate not only knowledge and learning, but also friendships and team
spirit that are maintained through the residency program. It includes a 'buddy
program' that matches the senior resident with the PGY1 resident in their
first days in the operating room.

Senior residents participate as well in the Canadian National Anesthesia
Simulation Curriculum and in inter-specialty simulation sessions with
emergency, obstetrics and critical care trainees.

All McGill anesthesia residents have simulation sessions that complement the
seminar program to help consolidate learning points in a hi-fidelity
simulation setting. This occurs at the end of each teaching block. Moreover,
all residents also provide teaching sessions to medical students at the
centre.

**Hospital-based Rounds and Teaching Sessions**

From September to June, each hospital has its own departmental rounds and
resident teaching sessions. Residents are often asked to prepare literature
reviews or case discussions for these rounds as a requirement for completing
the hospital rotation.

**Journal Club**

Journal Club is held four to five times during the academic year. Recent
publications are presented by residents, with faculty guidance. The format is
designed to develop critical appraisal skills.

**Anesthesia Research Day**

The annual Anesthesia Research Day provides a forum for residents, fellows and
postgraduate students associated with the Department of Anesthesia to present
their work. All residents are expected to present once during their residency
at this event. Presentations can involve research work, quality improvement
projects, case reports, or educational projects.

**Resident Education Day and Retreat**

Every year invited speakers offer workshops to residents on topics related to
the CanMEDS competencies and resident well-being.  There is an annual retreat
for staff, residents, and their families. In the past few years, this has
taken place at Jouvence, in Orford, Quebec.

**LUCAS  (Lower & Upper Canada Anesthesia Symposium) / McGill Continuing
Medical Education (CME) Program **

The Anesthesia Departments of  McGill University, the University of Ottawa and
Queen's University have collaborated to present a joint refresher course, the
Lower & Upper Canada Anesthesia Symposium (LUCAS). Residents are encouraged
and supported to attend LUCAS.  There is also a visiting professor program
throughout the academic year as part of the Department's active Continuing
Medical Education Program, and all residents are expected to attend these
sessions.



**  Research **  

The McGill program includes involvement in a scholarly project during
residency and offers a minimum of three periods in order to fulfill this
requirement. The McGill Anesthesia Department offers great opportunities for
different types of clinical and basic research, including quality assurance
projects and research in medical education and simulation.  All residents are
expected to present their academic work once during their residency at the
annual McGill Anesthesia Day. It is possible to pursue a Master's degree
within our Residency Program.





* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

  * Royal Victoria Hospital
  * Montreal General Hospital
  * Jewish General Hospital
  * Montreal Children's Hospital
  * Montreal Neurological Institute
  * St. Mary's Hospital Center
  * CISSS de l'Outaouais, Hôpital de Hull
  * CISSS de la Montérégie-Ouest, Hôpital du Suroît, Valleyfield

There are opportunities for inter-provincial and international electives in
our program, usually in the senior years. Out-of-province electives are
permitted after the resident has completed one-half of the program. For full
details on electives, please see the McGill Faculty of Medicine Postgraduate
Medical Education web-site.

There are opportunities for participation in global health initiatives by the
Canadian Anesthesiologists' Society International Education Foundation.

There is a mandatory three-month anesthesia rotation in a community hospital
setting traditionally at either the CISSS de l'Outaouais (Hôpital de Hull) or
the CISSS de la Monteregie-Ouest, Hôpital du Suroît, Valleyfield.  

Residents receive one-on-one teaching with anesthesia staff in the operating
room setting. There are an average of 40 anesthesia residents in the program,
and approximately 100 teaching faculty in the McGill Department of Anesthesia.

Residents have access to electronic medical resources through the anesthesia
departments at each hospital training site, as well as the hospital-based
medical libraries and the McGill Health Sciences Library.

* * *

# Additional Information

**Program Governance**

Major decisions about the organization and implementation of the program are
made by the Residency Program Committee (RPC) of the Department of Anesthesia.
This committee has strong resident representation, with three resident
members, one of whom is the Chief Resident.



For information on student life in **Montreal** , please see the McGill
Reporter article below:

<https://reporter.mcgill.ca/montreal-named-best-student-city-in-north-
america/>



**Information Sessions**

Information sessions will be offered by Zoom this fall, October 15, 2024 from
6:00 to 7:00 p.m. EDT (Montreal), and October 29, 2024 from 6:00 to 7:00 p.m.
EDT (Montreal)

Please check the following website for further details on the information
sessions: [| Postgraduate Medical Education - McGill
University](https://www.mcgill.ca/pgme/events)

* * *

# FAQ

Question:

I was not able to secure an elective in Anesthesia. Will this affect my
application?

Reply:

No. We understand that some people may decide to pursue a career in
anesthesiology late in medical school. The McGill Residency Program in
Anesthesiology is looking for excellent, well-rounded candidates.

Question:

I was not able to secure an elective at McGill University in Anesthesia or
other related elective. Will this affect my application?

Reply:

No. We understand that the number of elective positions at McGill,
particularly in Anesthesia, are extremely limited and this does not negatively
affect your application.

Question:  

I am a unilingual anglophone and do not speak French. Will this affect my
application?

McGill University proudly welcomes an international cohort of residents into
its Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) each year. Residents gain valuable
experience serving a diverse, multicultural community in French and English.
In Quebec, residents are legally required to care for patients in French and
in English. Therefore, PGME provides residents with French language
acquisition tools and resources to help ensure each can care for Francophone
patients, as well as fully benefit from their training experience.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27404?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27404