#  University of Manitoba - Emergency Medicine - Winnipeg  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 5

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Cheryl ffrench  
Dr. Omer Yusuf  

Address Emergency Medicine  
S203J Medical Services Bldg.  
750 Bannatyne Ave.  
Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3E 0T2  

Work  (204) 977-5664

Fax  (204) 789-3515

Websites of Interest [ Department of Emergency Medicine
](http://www.umanitoba.ca/faculties/medicine/units/emergency_medicine/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr Cheryl ffrench

Title: Program Director

Email: cffrench@exchange.hsc.mb.ca

Phone: (204) 977-5664

  

Name: Dr. Katie Sullivan

Title: Associate Program Director

Email: katherine.sullivan@umanitoba.ca

Phone: 204-977-5664

  

Name: Dr. Omer Yusuf

Title: Associate Program Director

Email: omer.yusuf@umanitoba.ca

Phone: 204-977-5664

  

Name: Shara Werestiuk

Title: Program Administrator

Email: Shara.Werestiuk@umanitoba.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

**The University of Manitoba campuses are located on original lands of
Anishinaabeg, Cree, Oji-Cree, Dakota, and Dene peoples, and on the homeland of
the Métis Nation.  We respect the Treaties and Agreements that were made on
these territories, we acknowledge the harms and mistakes of the past, and we
dedicate ourselves to move forward in partnership with Indigenous communities
in a spirit of reconciliation and collaboration. **

**Equity,  Diversity, Decolonization, and ****Inclusivity**

The Department of Emergency Medicine at the University of Manitoba is
committed to improving equity, diversity, decolonization, and inclusivity
within its training program and in emergency medicine as a speciality and to
promoting opportunities for systemically marginalized groups who have been
excluded from full participation at the University and the larger community
including Indigenous, Black, racially marginalized Peoples, persons with
disabilities and those who identify as 2SLGBTQIA+ (Two Spirit, lesbian, gay,
bisexual, trans, questioning, intersex, asexual and other diverse sexual
identities) and women..

**Competency Based Medical Education**  
  
Residents entering the University of Manitoba Emergency Medicine residency
program will experience competency-based training.  
  
To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called Competence by Design
(CBD), aims to enhance patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong
learning with evolving patient needs and empowering learners to more fully
engage in their education process.  
  
CBD will use time as a framework rather than the basis for progression. It is
not anticipated that the duration of training will change for the majority of
trainees. Residency programs will be broken down into stages, and each stage
will have a series of milestones based on required competencies. These
milestones will create more targeted learning outcomes and involve more
frequent, formative assessments within the clinical workplace to ensure
residents are developing and receiving feedback on the skills they need.

All programs in CBD undergo the same rigorous accreditation processes as
traditional programs. Certification for trainees in CBD programs include the
completion of a Royal College examination in addition to being assessed
against program milestones throughout their training. Within a CBD program,
all milestones and the Royal College examination must be successfully
completed to achieve Royal College approved certification.  
  
For more information, please contact cbd@royalcollege.ca.



The **Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation**  for all residents, **which
is MANDATORY** , will be held on **Thursday, June 26, 2025**.

All rotation requests, important documents, EPAs and other evaluations are
managed through the curriculum management system used by the University of
Manitoba called ENTRADA.

MCCEE to be phased out in 2020 - The last MCCEE session was held in November
2018. The MCCQE Part 1 will replace the MCCEE:
https://mcc.ca/examinations/mccee/

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Emergency Medicine at the University of Manitoba is committed to a fair,
equitable, and transparent application process. We maintain the right to
choose the applicants we feel are the best candidates for our residency
training program.

However, not all applicants whose files meet our minimum criteria will be
offered interviews; only the top candidates will be offered an interview.

Doing Emergency Medicine electives is encouraged but is not required of an
applicant and those who are unable to do so will still be considered for an
interview.

You are required to fulfill ALL of the most current Provincial Criteria for
Canadian Medical Graduates for Manitoba

The criteria can be found at:  <https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Reference documents

Required

Emergency Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Structured reference letters should be from an attending physician. While
references from an Emergency Physician are desirable, they are not mandatory.
Any physician that has worked with the candidate and can provide an honest
reference regarding the candidate's abilities are acceptable.





Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Personal letters should outline why the candidate is interested in a career in
emergency medicine, demonstrate an understanding of what it means to practice
emergency medicine and why they would like to train at the University of
Manitoba.  Additional information that the candidate wishes to communicate to
the selection committee to highlight their unique characteristics and/or
experiences which they feel strengths their application are at the candidate's
discretion.

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Optional - will be reviewed

Self-identification questionnaire

The University of Manitoba, Rady Faculty of Health Sciences promotes and
supports a community that embraces equity, diversity and inclusion, provides
for equality of opportunity and recognizes the dignity of all people. These
are key values to create an inclusive community for all. The University
encourages applications from Indigenous persons, persons with a disability,
racialized persons, women, persons of a minority sexual orientation and/or
gender identity, and all candidates who would contribute to the diversity of
our community.

We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self-
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. We are in the data collection phase currently.  Candidates
are not required to submit the CaRMS Self-identification questionnaire, but
for those that do feel comfortable doing so, the information received would
only be used for program selection improvement in future years.**It will not
be used for selection purposes this year.** Any self-identification
questionnaires received **will NOT be reviewed** as part of our file review
process or used as an aid for file reviewers for the 2024 match.



* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All applications are reviewed by the CaRMs selection committee. Multiple
reviewers review the applications and the choice of candidates for interview
is by consensus. Important criteria include the personal letter, references,
electives, rotation evaluations, and the Dean's letter/medical student
performance report.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 30, 2025
  * January 31, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Candidates will be offered virtual
interviews based on the selection criteria. Only interviewed candidates will
be considered for ranking. The official CaRMs interview date is Thursday,
January 30, 2025. Local candidates may be offered interviews on Friday,
January 31, 2025. There will be a virtual social function for all candidates
the evening prior to the offical interview date (Date to be deterimined). This
event is not mandatory and has no bearing on the interview or ranking process.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The virtual interview process
involves three 15-20 minute panel interviews.  Each interview team consists of
3-4 members who are either facuty or residents.  Interactive virutal
presentations of the facilities and the simulation centre will be included in
the interview day.  Residents will also be on hand in a virtual format to
answer questions about the program.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The following criteria will be used as a baseline to determine who will be
considered for an interview: academic marks and achievements, interest in
Emergency Medicine, personal letter and reference letters. We maintain the
right to choose the applicants we feel are the best candidates for our
residency training program. However, not all applicants whose files meet our
minimum criteria will be offered interviews; only the top candidates will be
offered an interview.

## Program goals

Our residents have a clear passion for and commitment to emergency medicine.
They demonstrate both academic and clinical excellence while maintaining a
positive work-life balance through participation in extracurricular
activities.  Residents in our program have exceptional interpersonal skills
and understand the importance of teamwork, collaboration and communication.
Our residents are highly self-motivated, self-reflective and eager to learn.
The University of Manitoba, Rady Faculty of Health Sciences promotes and
supports a community that embraces equity, diversity and inclusion, provides
for equality of opportunity and recognizes the dignity of all people.

## Selection process goals

Identify applicants who are passionate about emergency medicine and will
develop into exceptional emergency physicians.

Identify applicants who demonstrate academic excellence though their course
work and training.

Identify applicants who demonstrate clinical excellence through their clinical
training.

Identify applicants who demonstrate self-motivation.

Identify applicants who demonstrate excellent interpersonal skills.

Identify applicants who have shown they understand the importance of teamwork
and collaboration.

Identify applicants who demonstrate strong communication skills in a variety
of settings.

Identify applicants who have interests outside of medicine showing an aptitude
for work life balance.



## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team consists of the Program Directors,
Senior and Junior Lead Residents and selected faculty members.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  awards, previous work experiences, interest group participation, research and/or teaching experience   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  which ones have been done particularly in emergency medicine or related fields   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  we do not evaluate this component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  volunteering, leadership experiences, team experiences, program/curriculum development, medical courses outside of medical school, non-medically related experiences.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  in both medical and non-medical activities   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  demonstrated clinical skills on core rotations, communication, patient interactions, professionalism   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  reason for interest in emergency medicine, understanding of emergency medicine as a speciality, experiences that have prepared you for a career in emergency medicine.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  knowledge base, diagnostic skills, ability to manage patients, communication skills, professionalism   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  overall general research experience   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  academic performance   
Other file component(s) |  We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self-Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete confidentiality. We are in the data collection phase currently. Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self-identification questionnaire, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so, the information received would only be used for program selection improvement in future years. It will not be used for selection purposes this year. Any self-identification questionnaires received will NOT be reviewed as part of our file review process or used as an aid for file reviewers for the 2025 match.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  demonstrates an ability to work as part of a team   
Collegiality |  demonstrates ability to work well with others even in difficult circumstances   
Communication skills |  ability to speak and write in English   
Health advocacy |  demonstrates an ability to advocate for patient care   
Interest in the discipline |  demonstrates an understanding of emergency medicine as a speciality   
Interest in the program |  demonstrates interest in what the Manitoba program offers   
Leadership skills |  in medical or non-medical situations   
Professionalism |  interactions with faculty, residents, other candidates and administrative staff   
Scholarly activities |  demonstrates enthusiasm for scholarship   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  
Strengths of the Program

  1. High patient acuity with large volumes and high rates of pathology.

  2. Full academic day.

  3. "Flipped classroom" model for core academic day topics.
  4. Junior and Senior curriculums in Ultrasound, Simulation, Ethics and Professionalism (E&P), and Evidence Based Medicine (EBM) embedded in the academic day.

  5. Integration of academic day with Pediatric Emergency Medicine program and the CCFP-EM program.                                                                              

  6. Junior residents attain their Emergency Ultrasound Independent Practitioner status during their PGY-1 year. (Transition to Discipline/Foundations)
  7. Strong simulation program under the direction of Dr. C. ffrench.

  8. Comprehensive ultrasound program under the direction of Dr. T. Jelic.
  9. Annual Resident Retreat.

  10. Cohesive and supportive resident group.

  11. Collegial and engaged teaching faculty.
  12. Resident-faculty Journal Club.

  13. ACLS, ATLS, ACLS Instructor, ATLS Instructor, PALS, AIME Courses - all paid for under the contract.

  14. Dedicated time and support to attend conferences.
  15. $2,000 Cdn/yr provided to each resident for scholarly activity/conferences.

  16. The program has strong ties with the pre-hospital care system, including the Winnipeg Fire Paramedic Service, the Provincial Air Ambulance (Lifeflight) and the rotary program STARs.

  17. Two clinical Toxicologists provide a strong Toxicology rotation.

  18. Excellent research program under the direction of Research Director Dr. M. Leeies.

  19. Attending physicians with subspecialty training in Critical Care, EMS, Aeromedicine, Ethics, Palliative Care, Simulation, Ultrasound, Medical Education, Sports Medicine and Toxicology.

  20. Dedicated Medical Education, Pre-hospital/EMS and Emergency Department Administration rotations.
  21. Residents have access to High Performance Physician training.

  22. Formal Mentorship Program pairing faculty and residents based on personal and professional interests.

  23. Integration of Indigenous Health, Addictions medicine and Professional Sustainability and Wellness into the formal academic day curriculum.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Competence By Design:**

The University of Manitoba Emergency Medicine residency uses Competency Based
Medical Education (CBME) as structured by the Royal College's Competence By
Design (CBD).

In CBD the focus is on skill acquisition and competence rather than arbitrary
time measurements.  

The CBD stages of training (with the previous time based stages of residency
in brackets) are as follows:

  * **Transition to Discipline (TTD)**  (approximately the first 3-4 blocks of PGY-1)
  * **Foundations** (approximately the latter 9 months of PGY-1 to PGY-2)
  * **Core** (approximately PGY-2 - PGY-4)
  * **Transition to Practice (TTP)** (PGY-5)

The Royal College examination takes place in the spring of the PGY-4 year
(between Core and Transition to Practice).

Each stage of residency has required Entrustable Professional Activities (EPA)
and milestones which must be successfully completed in order to progress to
the next stage of training.

The following are definitions from the Royal College:

  * An EPA is a key task of the discipline that a practitioner needs to be able to perform. EPAs are designed to be developmental- they go from smaller to bigger tasks as the trainee progresses through each stage of training. Frequent observations of a trainee's performance of each EPA will provide a comprehensive overview of their competence and will guide promotion decisions.  Reviews of all evaluation materials and EPAs are conducted routinely by the the Competence Committee who then makes recommendations regarding promotion to the Program Director and the Residency Program Committee.
  * A milestone is an observable marker of the individual's ability along a developmental continuum. Each EPA consists of a number of milestones.

The EPAs and milestones have been developed by the Specialty Committee in
Emergency Medicine and are the same for all Emergency Medicine residency
programs.



**Training Program:**

Emergency Medicine training will be split between the Health Sciences Centre
(HSC), which is an Adult Emergency Department and St. Boniface General
Hospital (SBGH), which is undifferentiated (sees patients of all ages). As
well, there is a one month Community Hospital Emergency Medicine rotation
which occurs early in residency.  There are 5 months of Pediatric Emergency
Medicine training that occurs at the Children's Hospital which is part of the
HSC campus.

Off-service rotations are provided at either the Health Sciences Centre or St.
Boniface General Hospital, based on the availability of the most appropriate
clinical experience.

This curriculum is a general guide as there will be flexibility in the order
and in some cases the stage that the off-service rotations are done. As well,
the curriculum is regularly reviewed by the Residency Program Committee which
may result in modifications.

There is an opportunity to do electives out of province. However, there is a 6
month limit on out of province training.

All residents must have an "Area of Concentrated Expertise" (commonly referred
to as the ACE or Niche).  This time is meant to provide focused training or
study in an area that is relevant to the specialty of Emergency Medicine. This
may be a clinical or academic.  Depending on the area of study and process
(for example on-line or distance education)  there may be a requirement to do
shifts in the Emergency Department during the rotations.  The majority of the
ACE is completed during Transition to Practice (PGY-5).  These six months of
training are a Royal College requirement.  

**Curriculum (This is a general template of rotations)**

  | **TTD/Foundations** | **Core** | **Core** | **Core/TTP** | **TTP**  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
  | **PGY1** | **PGY2** | **PGY3** | **PGY4** | **PGY5**  
  | **Personal Learning Plan** | **Personal Learning Plan** | **Personal Learning Plan** | **Personal Learning Plan** | **Personal Learning Plan**  
**Period** |  **3 blocks** **6-9 blocks** | **36-40 blocks** | **36-40 blocks** | **36-40 blocks** | **12-15 blocks**  
  1 |  Emergency |  Emergency |  Emergency |  TTL |  Emergency  
2 |  Emergency |  Emergency |  Emergency |  Emergency |  Emergency  
3 |  Emergency | Orthopedics |  Emergency |  Emergency |  Emergency  
4 |  Community Emergency |  Obs/Gyn |  Emergency |  Emergency |  Emergency  
5 |  Emergency |  Emergency Psychiatry |  EMS |  Emergency |  ED Admin  
6 | Trauma Surgery |  CCU/Cardiology |  MSK |  Emergency |  ACE  
7 |  Emergency |  Plastic Surgery |  Medical ICU |  Emergency |  ACE  
8 |  Int Med wards |  Surg ICU |  Medical ICU |  Elective |  ACE  
9 |  Int Med wards |  Emergency |  Toxicology |  Elective |  ACE  
10 |  Emergency |  Int Med consults |  Peds ICU |  Elective |  ACE  
11 |  Anesthesia |  Adult/Peds Anesthesia |  EM Education |  Emergency |  ACE  
12 |  Emergency Peds |  Emergency Peds |  Emergency Peds |  Emergency Peds |  Emergency Peds  
13 |  Vacation |  Vacation |  Vacation |  Vacation |  Vacation  
  
TTD Transition to Discipline

TTP Transition to Practice

TTL Trauma Team Leader

EMS Emergency Medical Services

ACE Area of Concentrated Expertise

**Transition to Discipline**  **(TTD)**  
  

This will consist of approximately the first three blocks of residency and
will be done in the HSC and SBGH Emergency Departments.

**Foundations**

The Foundations stage of training is expected to consist of 9 blocks which
include Community Emergency Medicine, further Emergency Medicine blocks as
well as a number of off-service rotations/blocks: Internal Medicine wards,
Trauma Surgery, Anesthesia and Pediatric Emergency Medicine.

  
  

**Core**  
  

This stage is expected to consist of 36-40 blocks of training and wil include
Emergency Medicine blocks as well as off service rotations/blocks in
Orthopedics, Obstetrics/Gynecology, Emergency Psychiatry, Plastics,
CCU/Cardiology, Internal Medicine Consults, Adult and Pediatric Anesthesia,
Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Pediatric Intensive care and ICU (both Surgical
and Medical). As well there will be Emergency Medicine based blocks of  Trauma
Team Leader, Toxicology and Medical Education.



The Royal College examination will be held at the transition from the Core to
Transition to Practice which corresponds to the end of the PGY-4 year.



  
  

**Transition to Practice**  
  

This stage of training is expected to consist of 12-15 blocks of training. The
resident will function as a junior attending in the Emergency Department.
Additional rotations and components may include Emergency Department
administration, Pre-hospital Care (EMS), medical education as well as
Pediatric Emergency Medicine.

It is during this stage of training that the "Area of Concentrated Expertise"
(ACE) will be completed. This is 6 months of focused training or education in
an area pertaining to the specialty of Emergency Medicine in which the
resident has a special interest.





  
  

Seminars

There is a weekly academic full day on Tuesdays which is protected time for
the residents. Both FRCP and CCFP(EM) residents participate in the academic
day. The Pediatric Emergency Medicine fellows are also invited to participate
in the  academic day sessions that are of interest and relevant to their
training. The academic curriculum is based on a three year cycle of core
Emergency Medicine topics with objectives geared to both senior and junior
level of learners.

The academic sessions utilize a "flipped classroom format" to make the
sessions as interactive and informative as possible based on pre-reading of
core Emergency Medicine topics.

Integrated within the academic program are formal Simulation, Ultrasound,
Evidence-Based Medicine, Ethics and Professionalism, Indigenous Health,
Addictions Medicine, Musculoskeletal,  Pediatric and Professional
Sustainability and Wellness curriculums. The Ultrasound curriculum is designed
so that all junior residents attain their Independent Practitioner status in
their first year.  There is an advanced track for senior residents that teach
more advanced topics such as the RUSH protocol, vascular access, lung
ultrasound, DVTs, and ocular ultrasound.  The Simulation curriculum brings
residents to the Clinical Learning and Simulation Facility 1-2 times per month
for dedicated simulation training.  Advanced training in simulation is also
available.

Grand Rounds are held approximately every 2 weeks, except over the summer.
These are city-wide events, with participation from Emergency Physicians at
both teaching and community hospitals as well as our urgent care facilities.
Residents are expected to present at Grand Rounds yearly, with the exception
of their first and fourth years.

The FRCPC Emergency residency program hosts a Journal Club for all faculty and
residents four times a year.  These events are led by our senior residents and
are done in a discussion based format.  

The Professional Sustainability and Wellness curriculum is also embed into the
academic curriculum.  This incorporates teaching and concepts from the High
Performance Physician (HPP) program utilizes the same Sports Psychology
concepts as those utilized by Olympic athletes.

A further mandatory resident educational activity is the Core Curriculum.
These are additional education activities provided by the Postgraduate Medical
Education Office at the University of Manitoba for all residents in the
Faculty of Medicine. (The sessions are described in the table below)



Core Curriculum Schedule



 Mandatory Sessions | To be Completed in | Course Delivery  
---|---|---  
[CMPA Resident Symposium - Live Online
Session](https://entrada.radyfhs.umanitoba.ca/community/pgmetraineeresources:core_curriculum/core_curriculum#user_CMPA_Resident_Symposium)  
  
CanMED Role(s)  
Professional | PGY 1 | [Live Online  Session](https://eventscalendar.umanitoba.ca/site/pgme/)  
[Conflict Management in
Medicine](https://entrada.radyfhs.umanitoba.ca/community/pgmetraineeresources:core_curriculum/core_curriculum#user_Conflict_Management_in_Medicine)  
  
CanMED Role(s)  
Leader, Collaborator | PGY 1 |  [UM Learn Online](https://universityofmanitoba.desire2learn.com/d2l/login?logout=1)  
[Diversity in Medical
Education](https://entrada.radyfhs.umanitoba.ca/community/pgmetraineeresources:core_curriculum/core_curriculum#user_Diversity_in_Medical_Education)  
  
CanMED Role(s) Professional, Health Advocate |  PGY 1   | [UM Learn Online](https://universityofmanitoba.desire2learn.com/d2l/login?logout=1)  
[Drug Prescribing
Safety](https://entrada.radyfhs.umanitoba.ca/community/pgmetraineeresources:core_curriculum/core_curriculum#user_Drug_Prescribing_Safety)  
  
CanMED Role(s)  
Professional  
Medical Expert | PGY 1 |  [UM Learn Online](https://eventscalendar.umanitoba.ca/site/pgme/)  
[Practice
Management](https://entrada.radyfhs.umanitoba.ca/community/pgmetraineeresources:core_curriculum/core_curriculum#user_Practice_Management)  
  
CanMED Role(s)  
Leader | Final years of training |  Live Online Session  
[Professional Boundaries in the Physician-Patient
Relationship](https://entrada.radyfhs.umanitoba.ca/community/pgmetraineeresources:core_curriculum/core_curriculum#user_Professional_Boundaries_in_the_Physician-
Patient_Relationship) CanMED Role(s)  
Professional | PGY 1 | [UM Learn Online](https://universityofmanitoba.desire2learn.com/d2l/login?logout=1)  
[Foundations of
Professionalism](https://entrada.radyfhs.umanitoba.ca/community/pgmetraineeresources:core_curriculum/core_curriculum#user_Foundations_of_Professionalism)  
  
CanMED Role(s)  
Professional | PGY 1 | [UM Learn Online](https://universityofmanitoba.desire2learn.com/d2l/login?logout=1)  
**Nightmares Simulation Boot Camp** Medical Expert, Communicator, Leader, Collaborator |  PGY 1 Anaesthesia, Emergency, ObsGyne, Surgical Foundations, Internal Medicine   | Live Simuation course  
[Resource
Stewardship](https://entrada.radyfhs.umanitoba.ca/community/pgmetraineeresources:core_curriculum/core_curriculum#user_Resource_Stewardship_Online_and_Self-
Initiated_Project)  
  
CanMED Role(s)  
Health Advocate  
Medical Expert  
Scholar | PGY 1 | [UM Learn Online](https://universityofmanitoba.desire2learn.com/d2l/login?logout=1)  
[Teaching Development Program (TDP0) - Introduction to Teaching Medical
Students](https://entrada.radyfhs.umanitoba.ca/community/pgmetraineeresources:core_curriculum/core_curriculum#user_Introduction_to_Teaching_Medical_Students_)  
  
CanMED Role(s)  
Scholar | Annually | [UM Learn Online](https://universityofmanitoba.desire2learn.com/d2l/login?logout=1)  
[Teaching Development Program  (TDP)  \- Fundamentals of
Teaching](https://entrada.radyfhs.umanitoba.ca/community/pgmetraineeresources:core_curriculum/core_curriculum#user_Fundamentals_of_Teaching_TDP_-1)
CanMED Role(s)  
Scholar  
Communicator | PGY 1 | [UM Learn Online](https://universityofmanitoba.desire2learn.com/d2l/login?logout=1)  
  
  
  

Research  
  

All residents are expected to complete at least one scholarly project. While
the Gold Standard is for the project to be suitable for publication in a peer-
reviewed journal or presentation at a national conference (as per the Royal
College requirements), other activities that are satisfactory to the residency
program committee are acceptable. These projects are expected to be presented
at the annual Resident Research Day.

Residents are instructed in all aspects of a research project, including study
design, grant writing, submission, implementation, analysis, and presentation
during their academic day research sessions.  A faculty supervisor is assigned
to all resident projects.  As well there is additional support and supervision
provided by the Research Director.

The Evidence-based medicine (EBM) curriculum is embedded into academic day.
The PGY-1 curriculum focuses on introductory concepts, statistics and how to
answer a clinical question.  The PGY-2 curriculum focuses on quality
improvement.  The PGY-3 curriculum advances these concepts and provides
further support for the development of a research project.  EBM is also an
integral part of the journal club.

  


* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

-Health Sciences Centre: Adult Emergency

-Health Sciences Centre: Children's Emergency 

-St. Boniface General Hospital

The Health Sciences Centre and the St. Boniface General Hospital are tertiary
care referral centres serving all of Manitoba, parts of Northwest Ontario, and
Nunavut.

**The Health Sciences Centre** is an adult Emergency Department and serves as
the provincial Trauma, Stroke and Neurosurgery centre and has a volume of
>65,000 visits with a very high acuity level. It is situated in the core area
of Winnipeg and sees significant volumes of trauma, toxicology and complex
medical illness. As well, it is a major referral site for rural and northern
patients.

**St. Boniface General Hospital** Emergency Department is a tertiary care
referral centre and the Provincial Cardiac Sciences referral centre. It also
serves as a community hospital for the Francophone community of Winnipeg and
surrounding rural Francophone towns. Patient acuity is high with a significant
proportion of general internal medicine, cardiology, nephrology and
geriatrics.  Both adult and pediatric patients are seen.

**The Children's Hospital** , Health Sciences Centre, is situated in the core
area of Winnipeg where it provides primary, secondary, and tertiary pediatric
care for Winnipeg, Manitoba, NW Ontario and Nunavut. All levels of injury and
illness acuity are seen in this Emergency Department with significant multiple
trauma, toxicology, and complex medical illness.

The Children's Hospital cares for all pediatric hospital admissions in the
city of Winnipeg and has a very busy Pediatric Intensive Care Unit.

All sites have a computerized Emergency Department Information System and
utilized the Electronic Patient Record (EPR) for documentation.



* * *

# Additional Information

Emergency Medicine at the University of Manitoba is committed to a fair and
transparent application process. We maintain the right to choose the
applicants we feel are the best people for our residency training program.

However, not all applicants whose files meet our minimum criteria will be
offered interviews; only the top candidates will be offered an interview.





Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27450?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27450