#  Dalhousie University - Ophthalmology - Halifax  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Danielle Cadieux  

Address Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences  
Nova Scotia Health Authority - VG Site  
Rm. 2035, 2 West Victoria, 1276 South Park St.  
Halifax NS B3H 2Y9, Nova Scotia, B3H 2Y9  

Work  (902) 473-2517

Fax  (902) 473-2839

Websites of Interest [ Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences
](http://ophthalmology.medicine.dal.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Dani Cadieux

Title: Program Director

Email: danicadieux@dal.ca

Phone: (902) 473-2517

  

Name: Tomma MacDonald

Title: Program Assistant

Email: ophthed@dal.ca

Phone: 902-473-2517

  

* * *

# Important Information

To obtain a postgraduate training license after the conclusion of the match,
Canadian Medical Graduates (CMG's) must have registered and challenged the
Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Exam Part 1 (MCCQE 1) by July 1, 2025.
Those unsuccessful in the exam are subject to the decision of the regulatory
authority regarding licensure.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

####  

You must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident _**at the time of
application**_.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Only three letters of reference are required and only the first three will be
considered. Naturally, they will NOT be accepted from friends, family members,
or fellow trainees (residents, post-grad research colleagues, etc.).

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  500

Maximum :  550

  

In your own words, please provide us with this one additional page (500-550
words) of information that is relevant to support your application. Longer
letters will not be read.

Ophthalmological Report

An ophthalmologist's/optometrists report stating the cadidate's visual status,
including stereopsis is advisable.  Applicants are to upload this document.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

The CARMS Selection Committee will be chaired by the Program Director. Members
of the Committee may be faculty members, residents, and other healthcare
professionals. The CARMS Selection Committee will be composed of individuals
with interest, experience and expertise in assessment and medical education
relevant to ophthalmology. The CARMS Selection Committee members interpret
multiple sources of qualitative and quantitative observation data to achieve
consensus, where possible, in order to make judgments on outcomes.

The CARMS Selection Committee will be responsible for:

  * Reviewing CARMS applications.
  * Making decisions about inviting applicants for interviews.
  * Conducting interviews.
  * Deciding on the final CARMS ranking.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 5, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will take place on Wednesday
February 5, 2025 time tbd (Halifax time AST) via zoom.  Specific interview
times will be sent by email to confirmed interviewees.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Following the review of all applicant
files, a selected group of applicants will be invited to participate in the
interview process. This includes virtual interviews before panels of faculty
and residents.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

The Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences provides high quality
ophthalmological care for the population of Nova Scotia & Atlantic Canada,
delivers excellent medical education programs and conducts internationally
recognized research in a collaborative and innovative environment.  Our
training program strives to maintain an environment of inquiry and scholarly
activity, through research, education and innovation.

## Selection process goals

We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have completed a broad range
of electives including our specialty, with an emphasis on:

-An exceptional academic record, which demonstrates special proficiency in those subjects including those related to our specialty.

-Ideal candidates are those with an interest and proven experience in research, either in basic science or clinical research.

-Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, as well as documented fine motor abilities are essential.

-Honesty, empathy and sensitivity are key attributes in all our successful candidates

-A track record of valuable extra-curricular activities is an asset in demonstrating a well-rounded personality and community commitment.

Our program and university value the importance of equity, diversity and
inclusion (EDI) in residency education, and achieving a diverse and inclusive
group of residents is a goal in our selection process.

## File review process

Review team composition : The CARMS Selection Committee will be chaired by the
Program Director. Members of the Committee may be faculty members, residents,
and other healthcare professionals.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
This number has grown over recent years and expect it to continue growing

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Not included in application package   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Evaluations & reference letters from electives completed at our site and/or others   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Hobbies, volunteering, athletics and other artistic activities   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Positions held in student associations and other organizations   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Strong academic standing   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in Halifax and Ophthalmology & evidence of personal growth   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Interaction with Faculty, staff and patients, while being dedicated, reliable and with a strong work   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research work to date and interest in future projects   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Reviewing record of past academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Evaluations & reference letters from electives completed at our site and/or
others are reviewed as part of the file review process.



## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence of being able to work in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Ability to work with peers, faculty and staff   
Communication skills |  Answers interview questions in a clear and concise manner   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrates health advocacy within their community   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated interest in Ophthalmology through previous electives and research   
Interest in the program |  Knowledge of Halifax and Dalhousie   
Leadership skills |  Positions of leadership held (organizations, committees etc)   
Professionalism |  Interaction with interview panel, including mannerisms.   
Scholarly activities |  Candidates demonstrates scholarly activity   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

State of the Art Facilities

  An adult Eye Care Centre, which opened in 1998, includes state of the art
outpatient clinical, research, surgical and inpatient facilities.  The
functional planning of this unit has been designed to ensure the best training
environment.  This is in addition to the modern pediatric eye care clinic and
a visual science research laboratory at the medical school.  ch and clinical
facilities are within 15 minutes walking distance and are part of an extensive
tour on the interview day.

Teaching Program

  Teaching to residents is provided through clinics, rounds, formal didactic
sessions, an extensive Visiting Professor Program, attendance at outside
courses (basic science, surgical technology, and review course), self-directed
learning with modern easy access on-line computer network, standard patient
encounters, etc.  There is a strong emphasis on group cooperation within the
resident community of this program.  The department of Ophthalmology at
Dalhousie University is associated with a training centre of the Canadian and
American Orthoptic Councils (Masters degree at Dalhousie/IWK Health Centre
location).  There are approximately 30 faculty members in the department.
Funding is available to residents for attendance at relevant education and
scientific meetings.  Residents can pursue studies in medical education during
their residency toward a Master of Education.





  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

PGY-1  
  

The first year will provide a broad clinical background for residents entering
ophthalmology and to prepare them for the Medical Council of Canada Qualifying
Examinations Part II. The resident will rotate through various areas of
medicine and surgery, as well as neurosciences (neurology, neurosurgery,
neuroradiology), pediatrics and ophthalmology. These rotations take place both
in Halifax and Saint John, New Brunswick, to ensure an optimum learning
experience.  The resident attends a Canadian Ophthalmology Basic Sciences
Course at the end of that year.





PGY-2  
  

The resident will spend this year primarily involved in the ambulatory care of
eye patients at the Eye Care Centre (located in the Queen Elizabeth II Health
Sciences complex), rotating through general and subspecialty clinics. A
research project will be started with dedicated time throughout the entire
four core ophthalmology years.

  
  

PGY-3  
  

The resident will be involved with rotations through other specialty services
at the QEII and the pediatric service at the IWK Health Centre. The residents
will begin to participate in ocular surgery and continue their research. The
resident may attend a 4-week Basic Science Course in PGY3 or PGY4 year (such
as Lancaster, Stanford, or Houston review courses).



  
  

PGY-4  
  

Intraocular surgery experience will be a significant focus of this year with
necessary emphasis on modern surgical techniques including cataract surgery.
The surgical skills will be practiced in our state-of-the-art surgical skills
laboratory. The resident will provide consultation to the QEII Health Sciences
Centre. A community-based rotation is included. Elective time is also
available.

  
  

PGY-5  
  

This year will comprise further rotations through the various services.
Elective periods are provided where the resident will be encouraged to seek
training and experience outside of Halifax. Rotations through general and
specialty services will be provided to meet the individual needs of the
resident and to prepare for the upcoming Royal College Examinations. A
community-based rotation is included.  Surgical experience will continue
during this year. Further research opportunities are available.

  
  

Research  
  

In our program, the minimum requirement for research includes three
presentations at the Annual Departmental Research Day. Various awards are
available for outstanding projects, as well as travelling funds for their
presentation. The two winning papers at the Departmental Annual Research Day
are awarded prizes that include support for national and international meeting
presentations. In addition, the Dalhousie Medical School offers a Clinician
Investigatorship Program, which supports one full year of research during
residency to help establish a potential career as a clinician scientist for
worthy candidates. In ophthalmology this is offered between the PGY-3 and
PGY-4 years. Basic and clinical research in visual sciences and oculogenetics
are now well established at the medical school at Dalhousie. Residents can
benefit from these exciting and rewarding research opportunities.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

QEII Health Sciences Centre, Victoria General Hospital, 1276 South Park St,
Eye Care Ctr

IWK Health Centre, Pediatric Ophthalmology Department, University Avenue

Bayers Lake Community Outpatient Centre

 _NOTE: All residency programs are required to have 10% of their residency
training outside of Halifax Regional Municipality as stipulated in the most
recent Academic Funding Plan set out by the Department of Health and Wellness.
Please be aware that if matched to Halifax, as part of your training you may
be expected to complete rotations outside central zone but within the maritime
provinces._

An adult Eye Care Centre, which opened in 1998, includes state of the art
outpatient clinical, research, surgical and inpatient facilities. The
functional planning of this unit has been designed to ensure the best training
environment. This is in addition to the modern pediatric eye care clinic and a
visual science research laboratory at the medical school. All research and
clinical facilities are within 15 minutes walking distance. A community-based
rotation is included in PGY4 and 5 years and may take place in other provinces
of Atlantic Canada. Residents can inquire about studies in medical education
during their residency toward a Master of Education.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27197?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27197