#  University of Ottawa - Obstetrics and Gynecology - Ottawa

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on November 18, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 4 click here

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Constance Ling  

Address Obstetrics and Gynecology  
The Ottawa Hospital - General Campus  
501 Smyth Road , Ottawa, Ontario  
Ottawa, Ontario, K1H 8L6  

Cell  (613) 715-4570

Work

Websites of Interest

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Constance Ling

Title: Program Director, Postgraduate Medical Education

Email: cling@toh.ca

  

Name: Dr. Adam Garber

Title: Competence Committee Chair, ObGyn, PGME Ob/Gyn

Email: agarber@toh.ca

  

Name: Tracy Mitchell, CMEA

Title: Academic Manager, PGME ObGyn

Email: tmitchell@toh.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

**All candidates must meet the Ontario Criteria of Eligibility**  found
[here](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-criteria/provincial-
criteria/ontario/).

**COVID-19 vaccination**

Please be aware that most, if not all, hospitals in Ontario have mandatory
COVID-19 vaccination policies in place that require, in the absence of a valid
medical or human rights exemption, proof of vaccination. Acceptable
vaccination must be in accordance with Health Canada. You will be required to
provide an attestation that you meet this requirement as part of the CaRMS
application process and any actual documentation will be collected by the
appropriate institution if matched. These guidelines could change at any time
in accordance with future direction from the Ministry of Health or the
Universities based on information from Public Health.

**MCCQE (Medical Council of Canada qualifying examination) Part 1 results** :

Trainees will be required to disclose their MCCQE Part 1 examination results
**if taken** , upon entry into any of the University of Ottawa's training
programs. **Please note that the MCCQE Part 1 is  not a requirement to begin
residency.** The purpose of this disclosure is to allow for resources to be
provided to the few residents who would benefit from extra support early in
their residency in an effort to maximize their success.

**Failure to meet or provide proof of any of the stated requirements may
result in an applicant’s file not being reviewed or removed from the Rank
Order List.**

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

All candidates must meet the Ontario criteria of eligibility.

Please note that invitations for interviews will be sent out via email by
January 14th, 2025

**PROGRAM INFORMATION NIGHT****(Virtual)**

The Obstetrics and Gynecology Program at the University of Ottawa will Host an
information night for prospective residents each year.  This year, we are
offering two virtual information evenings on - Thursday, October 24th and
Monday, November 4th - from 6:00 PM to 7:30 PM EST via Microsoft Teams

**_Deadline to Register is  October 7th, 2024_**

Our Program Director and Competence Committee Chair – Dr. Constance Ling and
Dr. Adam Garber, our Montfort Site Supervisor, Dr. Barbara Sproule and
Academic Manager – Tracy Mitchell as well as our resident representatives –
would like to answer your questions about our Program - discuss the
curriculum, showcase program events, learn about new initiatives,  and what
makes the ObGyn Residency Training Program at the University of Ottawa unique.

Please follow this LINK to register for one of the virtual evening dates.

[REGISTRATION for the U of Ottawa ObGyn Program Information
Night](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=tkGbhQ8TE02mkx_-
xOfLWmNQTa_kzI5Cr0Jcbnn6wlFUNzUzMkw5NDRIWkVUN1Q4N0lIUEdEVlA1My4u)



**RESIDENT VIRTUAL Q &A INFORMATION NIGHT****(Virtual)**

The Residents in the Obstetrics and Gynecology Residency Training Program at
the University of Ottawa will be hosting a **_Virtual Q &A information Night
_**for prospective residents on - Thursday, November 14th**  - **from 6:30 PM
to 7:30 PM EST via Microsoft Teams

Please ensure that you have downloaded the Microsoft Teams APP to your
computer device in order to join the meeting event.

<https://www.microsoft.com/en-ca/microsoft-365/microsoft-teams/download-app>

Our Residents would like to answer your questions about our Program - discuss
the curriculum, showcase program events, learn about new initiatives, and what
makes the ObGyn Residency Training Program at the University of Ottawa unique.

Please follow this LINK to register for the Q&A session with the ObGyn
Residents at the University of Ottawa

_**Deadline to Register is  October 7th, 2024**_

[REGISTRATION for the U of Ottawa ObGyn Resident Virtual Q&A Information
Night](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=tkGbhQ8TE02mkx_-
xOfLWmNQTa_kzI5Cr0Jcbnn6wlFUNTBTNzNSR1o1U1EzOUQzNEhCNElYTkZaTC4u)



Please refer to the following links for more information on applying to the
ObGyn Residency Training Program at the University of Ottawa:

  * Postgraduate Medical Education 
    * <https://med.uottawa.ca/postgraduate/prospective-trainees/admissions>
  * CaRMS R-1 Residency Match 
    * <https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/>
  * Internationally Sponsored trainees 
    * <https://med.uottawa.ca/postgraduate/prospective-trainees/admissions/outside-north-america>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  * Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  * Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  * Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  * Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Conditionally required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

**MCCQE (Medical Council of Canada qualifying examination) Part 1 results** :

Trainees will be required to disclose their MCCQE Part 1 examination results
**if taken** , upon entry into any of the University of Ottawa's training
programs. **Please note that the MCCQE Part 1 is  not a requirement to begin
residency.** The purpose of this disclosure is to allow for resources to be
provided to the few residents who would benefit from extra support early in
their residency in an effort to maximize their success.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Although strong letters of reference from senior residents are certainly
welcome, attending physician letters are preferred.  

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

The letter should outline the reasons for choosing this Residency Program, and
personal strengths and weaknesses relevant to a career in obstetrics and
gynecology. No word limit.

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Photo in JPEG format please

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Selected candidates will be offered interviews via email by January 14th, 2025

If an email has not been received by January 14th, 2025 \- an interview has
not been granted.  Please do not contact the Program to inquire about whether
an interview was granted.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 28, 2025
  * January 29, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held virtually via
Microsoft Teams.  
  
Interviews will be held on Tuesday, January 28, 2025 and Wednesday, January
29, 2025  
  
The Program will notify applicants selected for Interviews via email by
January 14, 2025.  If you do not receive an email invitation for an interview
by this date - an interview has NOT been granted.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Members of the Residency Program
Committee will review applications in the context of the selection criteria.
The academic manager will contact short-listed candidates to arrange
interviews via email. Interviews are done by both faculty and resident
representatives 15 minutes for each interview.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

An above average academic record. Candidates should have a proven interest in
our specialty. At least one reference should be from an academic specialist in
our specialty. References must be able to attest to commitment and proficiency
in the specialty as well as having favourable comments on the candidate's work
ethic, team relations and ability to pursue knowledge and self improvement.
Excellent communication skills. Maturity, empathy, sensitivity to women's
issues. Commitment to "Teamwork", demonstrates
engagement/accountabiliy/ownership in individualized training/performance.

## Program goals

The residency training program at the University of Ottawa offers not only
excellence in training in all fields and subspecialties of obstetrics and
gynecology, but also fosters the personal development of each trainee.

Through active and cutting-edge educational approaches, we enhance important
knowledge and skills related to our specialty.

We have fully implemented CBD on July 1st, 2019 and have a team of CBD leaders
to support resident progression through this exciting model of education.

We also take pride in mentoring and guiding individual residents through their
career and provide them with resources that will support them and ensure their
personal and academic success.  Residents are expected to demonstrate clinical
and academic excellence, exceptional interpersonal skills, research
experience, and a sense of responsibility and dedication to the profession.
We will build upon these attributes by upholding the delivery of academic
excellence.

Our Program believes in and promotes a positive work/life balance with the
implementation of a Wellness Program organized by the Resident Wellness
Committee that organizes and encourages extracurricular wellness activities.

In a very collegial atmosphere, by placing significant emphasis on teamwork,
our residents are given the tools to master every aspect of the CanMEDs roles
and this is reflected in their continued success at the Royal College
examinations and in their careers.

## Selection process goals

Successful applicants will have shown a keen interest in obstetrics and
gynecology by past electives and/or past research experiences.

Successful applicants will have demonstrated the ability to interact
professionally and collaboratively with all health care team members.   Their
evaluations will reflect the ability to form a strong therapeutic rapport with
their patients.

Successful applicants will have demonstrated attributes highlighted in the
CanMEDS 2015 roles.

Successful applicants will have exhibited exceptional interpersonal and
communication skills showing a high level of professionalism attributes.

Applicants will have engaged in initiatives that reflect their leadership
skills, enthusiasm and commitment to a career in obstetrics and gynecology.

Applicants will value a team environment, and will demonstrate a record of
compromise, respect and active listening in the context of a team; traits that
are critical to thriving in our residency training program.

Applicants possess a commitment to balancing the academic demands of residency
training while cultivating outside interests.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our Program’s File Review team is comprised of
members of the Residency Program Committee, which includes the Program
Director, Academic Manager, Resident Representatives and Faculty Members from
all Sub-specialties and Hospital Sites in the Department of ObGyn at the
University of Ottawa.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
Interest in postgraduate training in the specialty of obstetrics and
gynecology varies each year however our Program generally receives a total of
120 to 130 for CMG applicants and the same for IMG applicants.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  
Interviews are scheduled on two full days for all CMG applicants. On average
the number of interviews granted is 50 applicants.  
  
Interviews for IMG applicants are scheduled on a separate day and on average
the number of interviews granted is 10-15 applicants.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Research, publications, electives, participation in group/team settings, extra curriculars   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  List of electives must include electives in ObGyn (Location of elective does not factor)   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Examinations listed under required documents are reviewed   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering (medical and non-medical), mentoring, approach to wellness   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Participation in an organization, student agency, club or camp   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstrated Interpersonal skills   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in discipline, program location, work/life balance, interests, passions, motivation   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interactions with colleagues and patients, interest in discipline   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Area of research interest. Publications optional.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Successful completion of all requirements   
Other file component(s) |  If applicable, MCC exam results, IMG Clinical Assessment Program results.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: The obstetrics and gynecology residency program at the
University of Ottawa does NOT require onsite electives to be offered an
interview.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

All Obstetrics and Gynecology electives, regardless of the location of
training, are given equal consideration.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high-quality patient care through working in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Behavior, attitude, ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak and write in English   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrates interest in health advocacy and ability to reflect on matters of health advocacy pertinent to Obstetrics and Gynecology   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrates interest and ability in the specialty; evidence for compassion   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrates interest in program, setting, and serving women’s health in Canada   
Leadership skills |  Ability to initiate programs, lead organizations/groups, making an impact, teamwork skills   
Professionalism |  Correspondence with staff and chief residents; behavior during interview   
Scholarly activities |  Interest in academic pursuit   
Other interview component(s) |  Interaction with other applicants, residents in Program, Faculty members and staff   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Program highlights**

The obstetrics and gynecology residency program offers an excellent clinical
and surgical experience in all aspects of obstetrics and gynecology with all
subspecialties being represented. There is a significant volume and breadth of
clinical cases. In addition to standard rotations, the program boasts a range
of clinical highlights including the Fundamentals Block designed to ease the
transition to residency, the Longitudinal Ambulatory Rotation aimed to
facilitate transition to practice, and the opportunity to participate in
outreach gynecology in Iqaluit through a well-established and high volume
program. In addition, there are strong basic science research groups in
maternal fetal medicine , reproductive endocrinology, and gynecologic
oncology.

Our Academic Half Day program is a comprehensive program comprised of lectures
encompassing the Royal College Objectives of Training for Ob/Gyne and SOGC
guidelines, Wellness Topics, Minimally invasive Surgery Simulation, Simulation
Labs and Anatomy Labs.  These sessions have been highly evaluated and praised
by our residents.

The Quality Improvement and Patient Safety Curriculum represents a newer
strength of the program providing residents with both academic half-day
content and the opportunity to participate in Quality Improvement projects and
committees.

Another very strong and recently revised component of our program is Journal
Club.  This is structured to occur as part of our Academic Half Day. We have
strong Epidemiology Faculty leadership and engagement and we use a Flipped
Classroom active learning framework to present papers and to teach and learn
about important methodology and critical appraisal skills.  We incorporate
several active learning strategies as part of journal club, including debate
and learn-pair-share activities. This event is attended by faculty and
residents.

Resident research is a strong component of our program with extensive
publications arising from collaborative projects led by our residents and
supported by nationally and internationally recognized Faculty in our
Department. Our program has a dedicated Resident Research Program Director and
Resident Research Committee to assist residents in achieving their research
goals. In addition to clinical research, residents can choose to join a strong
and growing collaborative of educators with a focus in simulation, team
training, patient quality and safety, and the learning environment.  We strive
to harness the academic strengths and passions of the individual resident by
helping them to network within the department so that they are supported by an
expert team. At an annual event, informally known as, “research speed-dating",
we assemble all of our residents and research mentors in one space and explore
common interests in research. An annual Resident Research Day is held off-site
for residents and faculty that showcases our residents’ scholarly work.

Our program also includes an elaborate simulation program for both technical
and non-technical skills, dedicated teaching faculty members, and a passionate
program director.** ** Simulations supplement clinical and didactic content in
most subspecialties. Simulations occur both at the University of Ottawa Skills
and Simulation Centre and in situ in the hospital setting.

Wellness is a key value in our program and a Resident Wellness Committee (RWC)
was established in 2019. The RWC facilitates resident training in strategies
to foster, promote and practice lifelong wellness, safety and resilience. The
RWC provides a support system for formal and informal counselling. The program
holds a wellness retreat, program development retreat , mentorship events,
career planning nights , and other wellness activities along with social
events throughout the year. Wellness topics are included in the Academic Half
Day curriculum.

Our well established Mentorship program, since 2002, assigns a Faculty member
to each resident. The resident and Faculty Mentor meet regularly to discuss
any concerns regarding academic progress, personal issues, career aspirations
and wellness. The resident and Faculty build a longitudinal relationship
throughout residency which often continues after the resident has graduated.
Each PGY1 Resident is also assigned a Resident mentor. CBD residents are
assigned an Academic Advisor. Mentorship events once-twice per year  for all
the mentor-mentee pairings.

We are also proud of the Program's adaptations to maintain the formal
curriculum despite the challenges related to the COVID pandemic. All Academic
Half days, Grand Rounds, educational teaching rounds and Resident Research Day
were all conducted virtually through Microsoft Teams during the Pandemic. As
restrictions lessened, the format has shifted to Hybrid Virtual.  Residents'
feedback has been very positive towards the learning opportunities preserved
by the Virtual platform.

We have the BEST (and kindest) academic manager/program coordinator in the
country. Trainees from the University of Ottawa will emerge from residency as
competent consultant generalist Ob/Gyns, ready to practice anywhere they want,
or ready to seek subspecialty training in the field of their choice.  

**** ****

**Uniqueness of the Program**

-One Month Fundamentals Rotation for PGY1 trainees in Block 1 including Boot camp, Workshops , Orientations to CBD, Resident Wellness Committee, Surgical Foundations, attendance at Staff Clinics and familiarization of ObGyn Residency at TOH and Montfort; (NO CALL DURING THIS MONTH)

-Surgical Foundation requirements as per RCPSC

-Female Urology one block rotation in PGY1

-Family Planning rotation

-Selective Rotation - Gynecologic Ambulatory Procedure Unit (GAPU)

-Exposure to Mature Womens’ Health (Menopause) clinics

**-** Minimally Invasive Gynecology /Chronic Pelvic Pain Selective

-Colposcopy and Vulvar diseases Selective

-Training in Pediatric Gynecology

-Selective and Elective rotation choices in PGY3-5 tailored to resident needs and career planning

-Community rotations to heighten exposure to office-based and community-based ObGyn (distributive model of learning)

-Ambulatory clinical training opportunities starting early in junior residency

-Longitudinal Ambulatory Rotation for PGY5 residents to assist with transition to practice

-Opportunity for Lead Resident experience on Baffin Island for one week during residency 

-Opportunity for international global health elective

-High-fidelity and low-fidelity simulation sessions in obstetrics and gynecology including minimally invasive surgery, urogynecology, gyn-oncology, pediatric gynecology

-Extensively developed and administered oral and written examinations for all residents (2x/year) 

-Web-based evaluation systems - Elentra and One45

-Dedicated Research Program with core understanding of research methods and biostatistics through Epidemiology Sessions, Research Events

-Education Resource Centre/Methods Centre is available to all residents in the Dept of Ob/Gyn Residency Training Program

-Protected learning and research time;

-Comprehensive Academic Half Day Program 

-Formal training and evaluation in all of the intrinsic CanMeds roles, with particular strengths in Health Advocacy and Communication; Opportunity to participate in Health Advocacy projects 

-Formal Quality Improvement and Patient Safety Curriculum incorporated into Academic Half Day Curriculum; Opportunity to participate in Quality Improvement projects and committees

-Career development counseling and professional development to assist the resident both clinically and academically for the next part of their career;

-Annual Resident Retreat bringing together all residents where current training rules and regulations are discussed and input for future direction/vision of the Program is sought;

-Established OBGYNE Resident Wellness Committee. Resident wellness is a strong component of our program where several activities (eg. evening group sessions, annual retreat, wellness day, social activities) are organized to highlight and value the hard work, long hours and stressful situations that can be encountered throughout residency training;

-Established Mentorship Program - with Mentorship Events;

-Annual Reception to welcome new trainees and to congratulate graduating trainees;

-Resident travel/conference fund;

-Option to obtain some training experience in the French language at the Montfort Hospital.  All subspecialty rotations are based at The Ottawa Hospital.



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**PROGRAM CURRICULUM**

**Competence by Design** (CBD) is a new system of teaching, learning, and
assessment embraced internationally. It is supported nationally by the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. The 2019-20 academic year was
our first year incorporating this exciting model of training. We have an
active and dedicated Competence Committee that has worked hard to prepare our
faculty and residents for this. We have found that the breadth of clinical
cases along with the range of educational modalities utilized in our program
lends itself well to this form of training. We look forward to sharing our
sixth year of CBD experiences with you. In the CBD model, all residents move
through four stages of training over the course of a 5 year residency program:
Transition to Discipline, Foundations of Discipline, Core of Discipline, and
Transition to Practice. By 2024, all residents within our program will be
trained in CBD.

**Transition to Discipline   **

For the first 4-6 months of the PGY-1 year, residents will move through
several 4 week rotations that are geared towards transitioning to residency in
Obstetrics and Gynecology.   They are mainly on-service Obstetrics and
Gynecology rotations. We have implemented a Fundamentals Rotation in Block 1
where PGY1 trainees are scheduled for the following transition to residency
activities - The Ottawa Hospital Orientation, University of Ottawa
Orientation, Program Orientation, NRP Certification Course, C-Section (Lab)
Course, Fetal Heart Tracing Certification, specific Ob/Gyn Lectures given by
faculty and/or residents, Simulation Labs and Ambulatory Ob/Gyn Clinics.

**Surgical Foundations Program** is a two year program starting in the first
year of residency and runs parallel to Transition to Discipline and
Foundations of Discipline. It is a mandatory requirement of our residency
program and for Royal College Certification.  Refer to Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada (RCPSC) web page for details on Standards of
Training Requirement.

**Foundations of Discipline**

This typically traverses the second half of the PGY1 and the entire PGY2 year.
The rotations include relevant off-service specialty rotations and program
specific rotations in line with Specialty Training Requirements of the RCPSC.
Off-service rotations include general surgery, intensive care, emergency
medicine, internal medicine, female urology and NICU.  The remaining rotations
are largely a combination of core hospital-based Obstetrics and Gynecology
rotations to ensure that residents ground themselves in the fundamental skills
of the specialty. There are also dedicated blocks for research so that
residents can work towards project completion by beginning early in training.
Ambulatory experiences and Ultrasound exposure are also important in this
stage of training and integrated into existing rotations.

 **Core of Discipline**

This stage of training is slated to run generally from PGY3 through to the
first half of PGY5. There is a three-month mandatory rotation in each of the
subspecialties including reproductive endocrinology and infertility, maternal
fetal medicine, gynecological oncology as well as a 2 month mandatory period
in urogynecology. Six to seven blocks are spent as a Chief Resident - usually
in the 4th or 5th year of training in gynecology and obstetrics. At this stage
of training residents learn to manage more complex cases while also growing as
leaders as they learn to manage their respective teams. In addition, many
selectives are available to choose from including: women's health, ultrasound,
ambulatory and community obstetrics and gynecology, adolescent and pediatric
gynecology, research in obstetrics and gynecology, colposcopy, pelvic pain
investigations and management, gynecologic pathology, endoscopic surgery and
gynecologic endoscopy, and family planning.  Residents are given the
opportunity to complete electives to plan their future careers.

**Transition to Practice**

In the final 6 months, residents move through chief rotations, a longitudinal
ambulatory experience, selectives, and electives. The focus shifts towards
learning to become independent practitioners. By this point, residents are
expected to be actively involved in teaching and mentoring junior trainees and
completing the scholarly work that might serve to advance their career.



**Research**

One dedicated 4 week research rotation is given in PGY2 year.  More rotations
(Selectives) can be assigned with individual considerations and requests.

Each resident is required to complete a research project during their
residency. The resident is responsible for ensuring that all deadlines are met
and all requirements fulfilled (well delineated and described in the Resident
Research Program Booklet). They will be mentored by their respective faculty
preceptor and the Resident Research Committee.

There are several components to the research requirement:

-Rapid Research Event - once/year - residents meet faculty members involved in Research

-A faculty preceptor is chosen by the fall of PGY2.

-A written proposal for the research project is developed with the faculty preceptor, and reviewed by the end of PGY2. It must be accepted by the Resident Research Committee, and a work in progress follow-up meeting is organized. 

The research project is carried out during PGY3-4 and progress reports are
expected as the project is carried out.

-The project is completed by the end of PGY4 or early PGY5. A final report of the results of the research project is written up in the form of a manuscript, which will be reviewed by the Resident Research Committee. The results of the research project are presented at Postgraduate Research Day in PGY4-5.

 This represents the baseline expectation of the program. Some residents are
keen to complete more than one project and we are glad to support this as
well.





 **Educational Seminars**

Academic half day is a mandatory and protected half day once per week
(Wednesday) during the academic year. In addition, there are weekly Grand
Rounds and numerous educational rounds on fetal heart tracing, gynecology and
gynecologic oncology at all campuses/training sites. During the COVID
pandemic, Academic Half day, Grand rounds and all educational rounds were
conducted virtually through Microsoft Teams. Currently the Academic Half Days
are in person, Hybrid and virtual.



* * *

# Training Sites

TRAINING SITES

-The Ottawa Hospital - General Campus

-The Ottawa Hospital - Civic Campus

-The Ottawa Hospital - Riverside Campus

-The Ottawa Hospital \- Shirley E. Greenberg Women's Health Centre

-The Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario

-The Montfort Hospital:

L’Hôpital Montfort est un centre universitaire de soins de la santé
francophone offrant des soins de qualité dans les deux langues officielles du
Canada. Avec ses partenaires, il contribue à améliorer la santé des
communautés. Montfort est reconnu pour l’excellence de ses soins
personnalisés, de son milieu de travail, de son enseignement et de sa
recherche. Ses activités quotidiennes sont guidées par la compassion,
l'engagement, l'excellence et le respect. Montfort a adopté un plan
stratégique qui s'appuie sur cinq axes afin d'assurer la satisfaction des
patients et de la collectivité, ainsi que le perfectionnement professionnel du
personnel.

Il y a plus de 3000 accouchements par année. Le résident fera partie de
l’équipe dynamique de 13 obstétriciens-gynécologues. Le résident aura la
chance de faire sa résidence dans un milieu universitaire communautaire ainsi
qu’un milieu universitaire tertiaire.

Montfort est maintenant reconnu comme[ le seul hôpital universitaire ontarien
où la relève en services de santé peut recevoir une formation en
français.](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.hopitalmontfort.com%2Ffr%2Fdesignation-
universitaire&data=04%7C01%7Ccoorresspec%40montfort.on.ca%7Cc90464cfe8a84bf60fe108d88c1add5d%7C85238cbe11ec4857b05a321c05139b52%7C0%7C0%7C637413394328805630%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C1000&sdata=PmE3lAzaWZixrbCbo0e7NolQYm1%2B0vQ1rvOPb5oOFHg%3D&reserved=0)[
](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.hopitalmontfort.com%2Fdesignation&data=04%7C01%7Ccoorresspec%40montfort.on.ca%7Cc90464cfe8a84bf60fe108d88c1add5d%7C85238cbe11ec4857b05a321c05139b52%7C0%7C0%7C637413394328815626%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C1000&sdata=q7Az19FyZHO4HrlZQSq%2FUY5OoD7bhE4iKU9Ex4Hqm5o%3D&reserved=0)Cette
compétence unique constitue l'essence du rôle d'institution phare qu'il joue
au sein de la collectivité. Leur engagement envers l'éducation inclut, d’autre
part, la formation continue en français de nos professionnels de la santé, à
qui nous offrons des expériences d’apprentissage riches et motivantes. Ainsi,
ils acquièrent et maintiennent les compétences qui leur permettent de
prodiguer chaque jour des soins de la plus haute qualité aux patients de notre
établissement et de tout l’Ontario francophone.

D’autre part, nous nous sommes engagés au perfectionnement de nos
professionnels de la santé, à qui nous offrons des expériences d’apprentissage
riches et motivantes. Ainsi, ils conservent et approfondissent les compétences
requises pour donner des soins de qualité supérieure aux patients provenant de
tout l’Ontario francophone.

En outre, parmi les médecins résidents jumelés à TOH par le CaRMS, nous
offrons à ceux possédant de fortes aptitudes en français parlé et écrit la
chance de faire la majorité de leurs stages en obstétrique-gynécologie
générale à l’Hôpital Montfort. Les candidats sélectionnés peuvent (et doivent)
tout de même effectuer des stages de sous-spécialité à L’Hôpital d’Ottawa
(campus Général, Civic et Riverside) afin de satisfaire aux exigences du
Collège royal des médecins et chirurgiens du Canada.

Hôpital Montfort is a Francophone academic healthcare institution that
provides quality care in Canada’s both official languages and collaborates
with partners to improve health in the community. Montfort strives to be
recognized for the excellence of its personalized care, workplace, teaching
and research. Our daily operations are guided by compassion, commitment,
excellence and respect. Our strategic plan based on five pillars aims to
ensure the satisfaction of our patients and communities, and the professional
development of our staff.

Hôpital Montfort is the only teaching hospital in Ontario where future
healthcare and health service professionals can receive training in French.
This unique attribute defines our role as a beacon within our community.

Now, more than ever, education plays a key role in our activities. First of
all, we offer practical training internships to students from approximately
fifty college and university programs in medicine, nursing, rehabilitation and
other diagnostic and treatment disciplines. Secondly, we provide stimulating
continuing education in French to our own healthcare professionals. This
allows them to maintain and gain the skills required to provide the highest
quality care on a daily basis to all of Ontario’s Francophone patients.

Lastly, if medical students are matched to the TOH stream, we offer those with
strong French speaking and writing skills the opportunity to complete the
majority of their general obstectrics-gynecology rotations at Hôpital
Montfort. Selected candidates can (and must) still complete sub-specialty
rotations at The Ottawa Hospital (General, Civic and Riverside campuses) in
order to meet the requirements of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons
of Canada.





* * *

# Additional Information

**Additional information  **

-Interprovincial and international electives can be taken as part of elective time - set up and consideration on an individual basis;

-The ratio of residents to faculty is approximately 1:2.

-A one week rotation in Iqaluit (Baffin Ottawa Program) is available in senior years

-Significant obstetrics and gynecology volume with a wide variety of cases and onsite availability of all sub-specialties;

-Mentorship Program and planned events

-Career Planning during academic half day sessions and evening events

-Anatomy and minimally invasive surgery simulation curriculum;

-Elaborate simulation curriculum in both Technical and Non-technical skills at the University of Ottawa Skills and Simulation Centre;

-Resident Retreats twice per year (Spring and Fall);

-Educational Resource Centre providing simulators and various on-line resources;

-Training in Pediatric Gynecology;

-Designated Research Program with extensively published highly known faculty members;

-Research Events with Faculty members

-Longitudinal Ambulatory Rotation for senior residents to transition to practice

-OBGYNE Resident Wellness Committee since 2019  

  
  

* * *

# FAQ

**Answers to Frequently Asked Questions**

Medical School Transcripts are the only transcripts required to include in
your application.

Personal letters can be 1-2 pages in length, however there is no word limit
for personal letters

Candidates will be contacted if an interview is granted.

Interviews will be assigned by January 14th, 2025 - Via EMAIL.

Interviews will be conducted virtually via Microsoft Teams.

You DO NOT need to have done an elective in Ottawa to be ranked highly or be
offered an interview!

You DO NOT need to speak French to thrive in this program

Yes, you are more than welcome to do international electives, but you will
organize these on your own and according to your own interests

Appreciation for the process of research is an important part of the residency
program, but that does not mean it must be basic science or an elaborate
randomized, controlled trial.  There are supported research streams to do a
literature review or a retrospective chart review that are less onerous but
just as valuable.



**PROGRAM INFORMATION NIGHT**** (Virtual)**

The Obstetrics and Gynecology Program at the University of Ottawa will Host an
information night for prospective residents each year.  This year, we are
offering two virtual information evenings on Thursday, October 24 and Monday,
November 4, from 6:00 PM to 7:30 PM EST via Microsoft Teams

**_Deadline to Register is  October 7th, 2024_**

Our Program Director – Dr. Constance Ling, Competence Committee Chair - Dr.
Adam Garber, our Montfort Site Supervisor, Dr. Barbara Sproule and Academic
Manager – Tracy Mitchell as well as our resident representatives – would like
to answer your questions about our Program - discuss the curriculum, showcase
program events, learn about new initiatives,  and what makes the ObGyn
Residency Training Program at the University of Ottawa unique.

Please follow this LINK to register for one of the virtual evening dates.

[REGISTRATION for the U of Ottawa ObGyn Program Information
Night](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=tkGbhQ8TE02mkx_-
xOfLWmNQTa_kzI5Cr0Jcbnn6wlFUNzUzMkw5NDRIWkVUN1Q4N0lIUEdEVlA1My4u)



**RESIDENT VIRTUAL Q &A INFORMATION NIGHT**** (Virtual)**

The Residents in the Obstetrics and Gynecology Residency Training Program at
the University of Ottawa will be hosting a **_Virtual Q &A information Night
_**for prospective residents on Thursday, November 14 **,  **from 6:30 PM to
7:30 PM EST via Microsoft Teams

Please ensure that you have downloaded the Microsoft Teams APP to your
computer device in order to join the meeting event.

<https://www.microsoft.com/en-ca/microsoft-365/microsoft-teams/download-app>

Our Residents would like to answer your questions about our Program - discuss
the curriculum, showcase program events, learn about new initiatives, and what
makes the ObGyn Residency Training Program at the University of Ottawa unique.

Please follow this LINK to register for the Q&A session with the ObGyn
Residents at the University of Ottawa

_**Deadline to Register is  October 7th, 2024**_

[REGISTRATION for the U of Ottawa ObGyn Resident Virtual Q&A Information
Night](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=tkGbhQ8TE02mkx_-
xOfLWmNQTa_kzI5Cr0Jcbnn6wlFUNTBTNzNSR1o1U1EzOUQzNEhCNElYTkZaTC4u)



Please refer to the following links for more information on applying to the
ObGyn Residency Training Program at the University of Ottawa:

  * Postgraduate Medical Education 
    * <https://med.uottawa.ca/postgraduate/prospective-trainees/admissions>
  * CaRMS R-1 Residency Match 
    * <https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/>
  * Internationally Sponsored trainees 
    * <https://med.uottawa.ca/postgraduate/prospective-trainees/admissions/outside-north-america>

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27306?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27306