#  University of British Columbia - Family Medicine - Indigenous - Mainland
Vancouver  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on November 08, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Joshua Greggain  

Address Faculty of Medicine – Department of Family Practice  
300-5950 University Boulevard  
Vancouver, British Columbia, V6T 1Z3  

Websites of Interest [ UBC CaRMS Website ](http://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Jana Ogdenova

Title: Program Co-manager

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Kelly Jacobs

Title: Program Co-manager

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Cindy Choi

Title: Education Coordinator

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Carlea Remodo

Title: Site Coordinator

Email: cremodo@uvic.ca

  

Name: Dr. Morgan Lindsay

Title: Co-Site Director

Email: morgan.lindsay@ubc.ca

  

Name: Dr. Chelsea Monell

Title: Co-Site Director

Email: chelsea.monell@ubc.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Prospective residents should refer to the [Family Medicine Residency
Selection](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/) website for ongoing updates,
deadlines and detailed information.  
  

FMProC: Important timelines

For the 2025 residency selection cycle ALL FM residency programs in Canada
require applicants to sit FMProC for those applying in both rounds of CaRMS.



FMProC test window for CaRMS first Iteration is from **October 28 (8AM ET) to
November 11, 2024 (10AM ET).  **

Registration opens from **September 11 (12 noon ET) and closes on November 07,
2024 (10AM ET).  **

** **

To register and find out more about the test please go to**
****[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/)**. All test related updates will
be posted on the website.

Requests to register or to sit the test outside of the posted deadlines will
not be considered.



**Upon completion of FMProC,  you must upload** your FMProC result letter to
CaRMS for your application to be considered complete.

** **

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Resident selection for the UBC Family Medicine program is a collaborative
process between all of our sites. Logistics and administration of resident
selection is managed by our central program office in Vancouver, located at
the UBC Point Grey Campus.

As the UBC Family Medicine Program is distributed into 23 unique sites and
locations, candidates should apply to each site they are interested in.  
Applicants must submit same application package to all sites to which they
apply.  

Regardless of the number of sites applicants apply to and rank, **only one
interview will be conducted**.

A variety of virtual information sessions will be held to provide prospective
residents with the opportunity to learn more about the programs and discuss
the training experience with faculty and current residents. Please visit
[Program Events](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/interviews-and-program-
events/) for upcoming events.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



Examinations

Required

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required.

  * Regardless of reference source, reference letters should speak to an interest in Family Medicine and aptitude for the discipline.
  * Using anecdotal narrative if possible, letters should provide evidence of attributes and abilities well suited for a career in Family Medicine.
  * These attributes and abilities are also evaluated in our interview process (see interview criteria and components).

Note: Traditional narrative letters will **NOT**** ** be accepted.  
Please note that should your reference submit a traditional letter it will not
be reviewed and your application may be deemed incomplete.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360018302672-What-documents-can-and-cannot-be-shared-transferred-from-physiciansapply-ca) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

_Provide a biographical letter (max. 750 words) that includes answers to the
following questions:_

_1.__    What life skills or lived experience do you have that demonstrate
your suitability for family medicine residency training?_

_2.     Why would a career in Family Medicine be a good fit for you?_

_3._    Why UBC? Why British Columbia? _Please elaborate with specific
examples of any connections you might have with the province of B.C., like
community connections, education, work experience, etc.  
  
_

_ _      _**Note: The same letter must be submitted with each site
application.**_

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 18, 2025
  * January 19, 2025
  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025
  * January 25, 2025
  * January 26, 2025
  * January 27, 2025
  * January 28, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: 2025 R-1 match interviews will continue to
be in a virtual format.  
  
The national interview period is January 18- February 09, 2025.  
**UBC interviews** will take place between the dates of **January 18-28, 2025.
**  
  
Please note that candidates will be interviewed once, regardless of number of
training sites you apply to.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All interviews will be conducted in a
live, synchronous MMI format. The UBC Family Medicine (FM) program will
contact the selected applicants by email to provide program-specific interview
details and interview links.  
  
If you wish to add a new program/site to your rank list after your interview,
you must update your CaRMS application by our **Program deadline, January 29,
2025**. This date will be posted here as soon as it is determined.  
  
Any additional sites added to your application after this date will not be
considered for ranking.  
  
  
**Important** : you must also link your documents to any newly ranked site.  
  
Regardless of the number of sites to which you apply, one final score will be
generated after the interview.  
If you are matched, the program will be unable to facilitate transfer from one
site to another.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Applicants must submit an application to each site they are interested in and
should assign the same set of documents to each site. Selection is based on
file review and one set of MMI interviews. Each file is reviewed and given a
score. This file review score determines whether a candidate is offered an
interview. The file review score is then combined with the interview score and
FMPROC score to create a total score for each applicant. **The file review
score will contribute to 20%, interview score will contribute to 75%, and
FMProC  will contribute to 5% of the overall global score**. A recommended
rank list based on the total score is submitted to each site for
consideration. The sites retain discretion to adjust the recommended rank list
based on local site selection committee input.

## Program goals

  1. To graduate residents who have developed the competencies needed to begin independent family practice in diverse community settings
  2. To deliver an effective academic, clinical and scholarly educational program
  3. To graduate residents who are inspired, resilient, and balanced
  4. To graduate residents who demonstrate evidence-based and reflective practice
  5. To provide working and learning environments that ensure residents, faculty and staff feel respected and supported

## Selection process goals

  1. Identify individuals with an aptitude for family medicine who are most likely to thrive in our diverse residency sites and in the unique context of British Columbia communities
  2. Identify individuals with a demonstrated solid foundation of clinical skills and clinical approach which equips them for Postgraduate Education training.
  3. Identify individuals who have consistent professional behavior; who interact appropriately with patients, colleagues and staff.
  4. Identify mature, motivated individuals with a broad range of life experience which they can draw upon to adapt to the demands of residency training.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is composed of faculty leadership
from across our distributed program, the program director and senior
administration.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 601 +  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership skills are considered in the context of the personal letters and reference letters   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Taken into consideration only if professionalism issues are identified   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstrated suitability to Family Medicine and training in BC through experience and life skills   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Demonstrated suitability through attributes, abilities and interest in the discipline   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
Other file component(s) |  Note: The MSPR and transcripts are required supporting documents by CaRMS but are not scored as part of the UBC Family Practice file review process.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We do not evaluate this component

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Yes: with patients and colleagues   
Collegiality |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Communication skills |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Health advocacy |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Interest in the discipline |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Interest in the program |  Yes: UBC in general, and in specific programs (rural, under-served populations, inner-city context etc.)   
Leadership skills |  Yes: assessment of leadership of self and others   
Professionalism |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Other interview component(s) |  Ability to handle Ambiguity/Uncertainty  
Advocacy/Compassion  
Resilience  
Patient centeredness  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  1) HIGHLY RECOMMENDED all seriously interested applicants submit a
site specific letter of interest introducing the applicant and speaking to our
site specific applicant ranking criteria (see below for details) sent directly
to the site directors and/or site coordinator by email.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  • File does not support interest in family medicine  
• Interview suggests lack of non-cognitive family medicine skills  
• Suggestion of culturally unsafe care or language in personal letter, during
program related events, or other areas of the application  
  
INDIGENOUS SITE SPECIFIC RANKING PROCESS:  
Our site has a unique mandate to train family physicians who will work in a
culturally safe way with Indigenous individuals, families and communities to
support health and wellness.  
  
Due to our unique mandate and our responsibility to our community partners it
is important that we select candidates who have a sincere desire to work in
Indigenous communities and who are culturally safe.  
  
We have created a scoring system to determine suitability to our site. A score
of 0 - 10 is assigned (0 = weak, 10= strong) based on:  
● personal letter (0-2 points)  
● lived Indigenous experience (0-2 point)  
● sincere interest in training at the Indigenous site (0-2 point)  
● relationship with Indigenous people and communities (0-4 points)  
  
The UBC central program sends us the list of students who selected our site
and completed the application process. Applicants on this list are ranked by a
selection committee using the Indigenous site specific criteria outlined below
with scores ranging between 0 and 10.  
Where there are applicants with the same score, Indigenous applicants will be
prioritized and the remaining order will be determined by the overall UBC
ranking.  
  
The Indigenous Family Practice Residency Site may elect not to rank candidates
if they feel that they are not suited to the site based on red ﬂags (generally
related to culturally unsafe language or behavior) or a poor site specific
suitability score. See bottom of this website under “Additional Information”
for details on site specific ranking.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

### **Uniquely B.C:  UBC Family Medicine**

[Family Medicine training in BC](https://postgrad.familypractice.ubc.ca/)
presents you with many unique opportunities. We are a fully accredited
distributed program with 23 training sites and multiple training communities.
In an effort to meet the evolving needs of our society, each site provides a
solid foundation in the knowledge and clinical skills of Family Medicine so
that our graduates are prepared to practice in a variety of settings. While
our program offers diversity of training, it is based on [common goals,
learning objectives, and assessment
standards](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/program-info/).

All residents are required to do a [mandatory 2-month rural
rotation](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/resident-resources/rural-
rotation/) in Family Medicine in their second year. Residents in the Coastal,
or rural programs in the Okanagan or the North complete longer rural
placements. Residents can also apply to participate in Enhanced Rural training
for a total of 4-6 months in rural communities.

There is extensive [academic and administrative
support](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/about/program-matrix/) for the
entire residency program. Our central program administrative team is based in
Vancouver on UBC campus. At the site level, leadership teams are made up of a
Site Director, Site Faculty, Lead Residents and administrators. Lead Program
Faculty provide provincial education support in the areas of curriculum,
assessment, faculty development, scholarship and behavioral medicine.

The Family Practice Postgraduate Education Committee has representation from
all sites to ensure a connected, distributed program that fully meets
accreditation standards. Residents are represented at all levels of
governance.

A wide range of amazing recreational and cultural opportunities are at your
doorstep, as well as a collegial community of residents and physicians with
whom you can learn, grow, and play. We want your experience to be in BC to be
a positive and enjoyable one.

### **Training Sites: Overview**

Visit the [UBC Family Medicine Postgraduate website
](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/)for a detailed overview of each of the 23
sites and their surrounding communities.  Each site provides opportunities to
experience Family Medicine in their unique context, offering special
opportunities to gain experience and skills unique to the area where you are
training.

The following is a list of our sites and their base community/hospital. Each
site serves the surrounding community (see [training
sites](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/training-sites/interactive-map/) for
full details):



**Greater Vancouver / Lower Mainland**

  * Abbotsford-Mission
  * Coastal (North Vancouver, Lion’s Gate Hospital)
  * Chilliwack
  * Indigenous (Greater Vancouver and rural Indigenous communities)
  * St. Paul's (Downtown Vancouver, Inner City)
  * Surrey South Fraser (Surrey Memorial Hospital)
  * Vancouver Fraser (New Westminster, Royal Columbian)



**Interior Region**

  * Kootenay Boundary (Trail, Nelson, Rossland, Castlegar)
  * Kelowna Rural (Kelowna R1 year; rural communities across BC in R2 year)
  * Kelowna Regional
  * North Okanagan (Vernon)
  * Okanagan South (Penticton)
  * Kamloops



**Vancouver Island**

  * Indigenous (Victoria, Ladysmith and rural Indigenous communities including Pacheedaht, Penelakut, ‘Namgis)
  * Quw'utsun (Duncan)
  * Nanaimo 
  * Strathcona (Comox, Campbell River and Courtenay)
  * Victoria



**Northern**

  * Fort St. John (Northeast)
  * Northern Rural (Prince George R1 year; rural communities across BC in R2 year)
  * Prince George
  * Rural Immersion (Hazelton, Smithers, Vanderhoof, Mackenzie, Valemount/McBride, Chetwynd/Tumbler Ridge)
  * Terrace (Rural Northwest)



**IMG positions are offered at the following sites:**

  * Abbotsford-Mission
  * Chilliwack
  * Coastal
  * Fort St. John
  * Kamloops
  * Kootenay Boundary
  * Nanaimo
  * North Okanagan
  * Okanagan South
  * Kelowna Rural
  * Kelowna Regional
  * Prince George
  * Strathcona
  * St. Paul’s
  * Surrey South Fraser
  * Vancouver Fraser
  * Victoria

### **Resident Support**

Resident resilience and wellness is our top priority. Important
[resources](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/resident-resources/resident-
wellness-and-safety/) have been developed by our program to support our
residents throughout the course of the training.

All UBC programs are allocated a fixed amount of funding per resident for
Resident Activities.  This funding is used to provide educational support to
residents during their 2 years of training. This includes funding for
residents to attend program-wide courses and events. Additionally, residents
may identify conferences and educational materials that would supplement their
training experience. A discretionary, per resident funding will also be
allocated to the sites for a similar purpose at the site level.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Introduction**

This site provides opportunities to develop special expertise in providing
safe and appropriate care with and for Indigenous peoples for both Indigenous
and non-Indigenous allied physicians. Please note that this site is
administered centrally as part of the Indigenous Family Medicine program
together with Indigenous – Victoria and Indigenous – Rural Vancouver Island.
Information regarding these other specific sites can be found under a separate
CaRMS description.

Our program is relationship-based and engaged with Indigenous communities. We
work in collaboration with a number of Indigenous communities and their health
care teams to provide educational experiences whereby residents are connected
within an Indigenous community for the duration of their training.  The
residents are welcomed and encouraged to participate in community activities
and gatherings in order to help them develop trust with the community they are
serving. Our program focuses on supporting residents to engage with
communities in a respectful way in order to learn about health and healing
with and from Indigenous peoples.

At the Indigenous - Lower Mainland site, we are primarily located on located
on unceded xʷməθkwəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh (Squamish), and
Səl̓ílwəta/Selilwitulh (Tsleil-Waututh) territories. The primary clinical
sites for our Indigenous – Lower Mainland residents are Sheway and Kilala
Lelum in Vancouver’s Downtown Eastside community, and Lu’Ma (urban Indigenous
clinic) and Musqueam community clinic (on-reserve).  All our Indigenous family
medicine sites do have a rural Indigenous community clinic component, which is
unique to our site. The community outreach options include Carrier Sekani
Family Services in north central BC, Nisga’a Valley Health Authority, Alert
Bay, and/or Hazelton, subject to availability. All sites offer educational
experiences to meet accreditation standards. Off service specialty rotations
are generally done in partnership with our sister site St. Paul’s Family
Medicine at St. Paul’s Hospital (see scheduling below).



**PGY1 Overview**

**R1** |  **Duration** |  **Location/Notes**  
---|---|---  
Family Practice Orientation |  1 block |  First block of residency includes rotations through the primary clinics, orientation sessions, academic curriculum, etc.  
Family Practice Hospitalist |  0.5 blocks |  Hospitalist rotation at MSJ or other similar hospital depending on rotation availability, for inpatient care and hospitalist call shifts.  
Family Practice OB (Sheway) |   2 blocks |  Downtown eastside clinic providing primary care to women and nonbinary individuals who are pregnant or parenting, with a focus on antenatal care, sexual health, and addictions. Large volume of infant/child care as well. Option to have longitudinal days spent with outpatient visiting psychiatrist and pediatrician. Will include some overnight call shifts at BCWH for LDR and obstetrics triage experience.  
Family Practice - general and addictions |  2.5 blocks |  Primary care clinic at either Lu’ma medical clinic or Musqueam community clinic, and a clinic with focus on inner city medicine and full scope addictions treatment through a lens of cultural sensitivity at Kilala Lelum. Will include some overnight hospitalist call shifts at the same site as hospitalist rotation).  
Rural FP |  1 block |  Carrier Sekani Family Services Fly in to Takla Landing and Yekooche throughout horizontal family practice (four 1 week trips) or a 4 wk block in the ‘Namgis territory (Alert Bay), Nisga’a, or Hazelton  
Elective |  1 block |  Resident driven and self-scheduled  
OB-LDR |  1 block |  BCWH-OB, working with Family Med OB, option to request other hospital locations subject to availability (funding for selectives away from home site may not be available)  
ER |  1 block |  St. Paul’s Hospital  
Pediatrics |  1 block |  BCCH Pediatric Emergency (subject to availability) OR Selective (inpatient or outpatient, can be done out of province - selective self scheduled by resident)  
IM |  1 block |  St. Paul’s Hospital CTU, option for resident to self-schedule other general IM inpatient or outpatient subject to availability (funding for selectives away from home site may not be available)  
VACATION |  4 weeks |  To be taken in two 2 week periods during each half of the academic year  
  


**  PGY2 Overview**

**R2** |  **Duration** |  **Location/Notes**  
---|---|---  
Family Practice Horizontal |  3 blocks |  Primarily FM home site (either Sheway, Kilala Lelum, or Lu’ma) with option to self-schedule longitudinal experiences in chosen areas (care of elderly, gyne, etc)  
Rural Family Practice |  2 blocks |  Various communities around BC, option to extend rural experience to 4 blocks  
Ward/Hospitalist   Psychiatry |  0.5 blocks   0.5 blocks |  Selective, Mount St. Joseph’s or Ridge Meadows Hospital, or other based on availability Psychiatry Selective  
Surgery or Procedural |  0.5 block (2 weeks) |  Selective  
Palliative |  0.5 block (2 weeks) |  St. Paul’s Hospital or UBC, option for resident to self-schedule other location subject to available  
Elective |  4 blocks |   Resident driven and self-scheduled  
Family Medicine Transition to Practice |  1 block |  Last block of residency, transition to practice with reduced supervision and increased independence, transition to practice curricular time  
VACATION |  4 weeks |  Self scheduled by residents  
  


**Indigenous Community Visits, Academic Curriculum, and Research**

New in 2025/26, our Indigenous Family Practice program will be administering
our own academic curriculum. Previously, our curriculum has been administered
by partnered sites such as St. Paul’s CMG.

Our curriculum is structured into academic weeks, and clinically focused
sessions will include lectures, case-based learning, SIM sessions, hands-on
clinical/procedural skills workshops, and exam prep. A highlight of our site
is our focus on relationship to each other and the Indigenous communities we
serve, and a focus of our academic gatherings is on incorporating Indigenous
ceremony and knowledge, community visits and activities, and meetings with
Elders and knowledge keepers. We will also have a focus on resident wellness
built into our curriculum.

We will have 6 academic weeks scheduled throughout the year. Some weeks will
be in-person and some will be virtual. Please note that since we are a
distributed program, attendance will require travel which will be reimbursed.
Expect to travel a minimum of three times per year for academic/scholarship
related travel.

Research requirements are consistent with other sites at UBC. In R1 a small
research or quality improvement project is to be completed, either
individually or with another resident. In R2, a larger scholar project must be
completed, and will be presented at our Indigenous Scholarship presentation at
the end of residency.



**International Electives**

Residents can do one month of interprovincial or international electives
during their training.



**Further Training**

Third year training positions are available in the area of Emergency Medicine,
Care of The Elderly, Anesthesia, Palliative Medicine, Sports and Exercise
Medicine, Clinician Scholars program and a wide range of other category 2
Enhanced Skills programs.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Sheway** – Sheway is a Pregnancy Outreach Program (P.O.P.) located in the
Downtown Eastside of Vancouver. The program provides health and social service
supports to pregnant and parenting women/nonbinary individuals who are
experiencing/have recently experienced substance use and addiction. The focus
of the program is to help the women have healthy pregnancies and positive
early parenting experiences. A large part of the care offered here includes an
Indigenous cultural wellness program.

**Lu’Ma Native Housing** – Located within Lu’Ma Native Housing Society. The
Lu’Ma clinic provides safe, culturally integrated health care that is
accessible to families to increase positive health outcomes and remove
disparities. The clinic offers a smudging area and medicine bag making
materials as well as access to traditional healers and Elders.

**Kilala Lelum** – a collaboration between Indigenous Elders, physicians and
allied health professionals to provide a safe and healing space for the
Indigenous and non-Indigenous community in Vancouver’s Downtown Eastside. This
centre officially opened in June 2019, to provide care to over 3000
individuals of all nations who face the challenges of inner-city living.

**Musqueam Primary Care clinic** – working in community on the Musqueam
reserve. Musqueam’s health department provides band and community members
access to basic health, mental wellness and home and community care programs
on reserve.

**Carrier Sekani Family Services Primary Care team** : CSFS has a group of
dedicated Physicians and Nurse Practitioners who service our communities
through a holistic approach to care, meeting a wide variety of needs. CSFS has
worked hard to bring Primary Care services to First Nations communities
throughout Carrier territory. CSFS proudly offers Primary Care medical
services in Takla, Yekooche, Nadleh, Saik'uz, Stellat'en, Nee Tahi Buhn,
Cheslatta, Skin Tyee, Burns Lake Band, Wet'suwet'en and in Prince George.
Currently our site sends residents to Takla and Yekooche.

**St. Paul’s Hospital** – a tertiary referral hospital of 480 beds including
Obstetrics, and a very busy Emergency department. St. Paul’s has been a
teaching hospital for residents and interns for over 70 years and has a proud
reputation for the quality of its teaching programs.

* * *

# Additional Information

**Please see our site-specific selection criteria:**

**Criteria for scoring Personal Letter for Indigenous site suitability**

**0 point:**

\- no mention of interest in Indigenous health

\- description of previous Indigenous health experiences lack cultural safety

**1 point:**

\- establishes sincere interest in Indigenous health

\- minimal speciﬁc experience working with Indigenous peoples or communities
or only those required in their prior programs (ie. One

rotation/elective, mandatory community visits or required courses on cultural
safety)

\- Has experience in social justice and advocacy efforts in other areas other
than Indigenous Health (ie. Serving refugee communities)

**2 points:**

\- states working in Indigenous health as a major or primary career goal

\- Previous experiences/electives working with Indigenous communities which
are named (i.e. “I worked for two years with Fort Nelson First Nation,

as opposed to I did a Northern elective in an Indigenous community)

\- References respectful and reciprocal relationships with Indigenous peoples
and communities

\- Demonstrates clear understanding of the historical and contextual factors
which have led to health disparities in Indigenous communities and a

sincere desire to work towards addressing these

\- Demonstrates sincere commitment to the principles of cultural safety and
anti-Indigenous racism



**Criteria for determining Lived Indigenous Experience**

**0 point:**

\- does not self-identify as an Indigenous person or uses language that is
culturally unsafe to describe their lived Indigenous experiences (i.e.
perpetuating stereotypes or prejudices)

**1 point:**

\- self-identiﬁes as Indigenous

**2 points:**

\- Self-identiﬁes as Indigenous AND

\- Individual has a strong connection to their community (where they
traditional are from or a chosen Indigenous community (ie. Urban Indigenous

communities)

\- OR They have demonstrated a sincere interest in learning about their
heritage, culture, and/or connection with their Indigenous

family/community.

\- OR Has demonstrated a clear desire to be a leader/advocate in Indigenous
Health through work/school/volunteer activities



*These criteria may not encapsulate everyone’s lived experience and we apologize if you do not see yourself in these descriptions. If you would like to connect with site leadership and/or residents in the program to discuss your unique story / lived experience please do not hesitate to reach out.



**Criteria to determine sincere interest to train at Indigenous site**

**0 point:**

\- no specific contact with site

**1 point:**

\- single e-mail or phone call indicating interest sent to site coordinator,
site director or resident

\- attendance at a UBC Indigenous Family Practice site Q&A sessions

\- has a strong reference letter from one of our preceptors, alumni, and/or an
Indigenous physician

**2 points:**

\- has visited or worked with one of our primary training sites

\- longitudinal demonstration of interest through multiple connections (ie.
emails, phone calls, in-person meetings, info sessions, etc) with the site
coordinator,

site directors, residents, site Elder, and/or preceptors

\- worked with the site on projects or attended site events (ie. Indigenous
Academic Days or the BC IMEG)



**Criteria to Determine Relationships with Indigenous Peoples and/or
Communities**

**0 point:**

\- No indication of having spent time in an Indigenous community* or working
within an Indigenous context

\- No strong personal or professional relationships with Indigenous people or
communities*

**1-2 points:**

\- Spent some time in an Indigenous community* in personal or professional
capacities.

\- Have 1-2 examples of working with Indigenous peoples or on projects that
demonstrate a sincere interest in working in Indigenous Health.

\- Attends IPAC and/or IMEG events

**3-4 points:**

\- Lived in or grew up in an Indigenous community*

\- Have many (3 or more) examples of working with Indigenous peoples or on
projects that demonstrate a sincere interest in working in Indigenous Health
(including cultural safety and anti-Indigenous racism work).

\- Active participant or leader in IPAC, UBC IMEG committee, NCIME, or in
other Indigenous medical leadership type roles.



*Due to colonialism there are many ways our connection to community and kinship ties have been disrupted. We also recognize that there are different ways we form community because of this. If this is your experience we encourage you to outline this in our site-specific personal letter or reach out by email/phone (if this is something you’re comfortable doing). Our intention is not to further isolate and segregate our community.





* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26597?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26597