#  University of Calgary - Orthopedic Surgery - Calgary  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 09, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 5

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Aaron Bois  
Dr. Rubini Pathy  

Address Orthopaedic Surgery  
10th Floor, North Tower, 1024  
1403 29 Street NW  
Calgary , Alberta, T2N 2T9  

Work  403.944.6684

Work

Websites of Interest [ University of Calgary Orthopaedic Surgery
](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/departments/surgery/sections/orthopaedic-
surgery/pgme)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Aaron Bois

Title: Program Director

Email: abois@ucalgary.ca

Phone: 403.944.6684

  

Name: Peter Lewkonia

Title: Assistant Program Director

Email: pdlewkon@ucalgary.ca

  

Name: Zainy Abdy

Title: Program Administrator

Email: zainab.abdy@ucalgary.ca

Phone: 4034673715

  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Reference documents

Required

Orthopedic Surgery structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Late references will not be accepted. Please note that if more than 3 letters
are received, only the first 3 listed in the file will be reviewed.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1200

  

The University of Calgary Orthopaedic Residency Training Program thrives on
the diversity of its members, and celebrates the achievements of its graduates
in surgical care and other endeavours locally, nationally and internationally.
Please describe what element of your personal strengths, lived experiences, or
aspirations will add a unique contribution to the Calgary orthopaedic
community during training and beyond.

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

This transcript is required is in addition to your medical school transcript.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Review Process:  Once all completed applications are submitted through CaRMS
online, the program director and assistant program director thoroughly review
all applications.  Applications that are complete are reviewed by an
indepedent panel of orthopaedic surgeons including members of the residency
program committee.  Each application is scored by multiple surgeons
independently.   Interviews are typically offered to the top 24 candidates
based on a file review.  Candidates selected for an interview are contacted
within one week to be notified of their interview date/time.  Interviews are
conducted by a second group of surgeons and residents from our program and
independently scored.  File review scores and interview scores are combined.
These final scores are then assessed and applications reviewed by a third
indepedent panel to ensure fairness, transparency and adherence to our
selection criteria.  The rank list submitted to CaRMS is completed by the
program director based on the advice and instructions of the third review
panel.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 5, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interview Dates  
  
Candidates who are short-listed will be contacted for a virtual interview via
email.  Interviews take place on a single day during the CaRMS national
interview period.  The interview date for the University of Calgary
Orthopaedic Surgery Residency Training Program will be Wednesday Feburary 5,
2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interview Process  
  
The Orthopaedic Surgery Residency Training Program will follow a structured
virtual interview.  Each applicant is interviewed by three panels, including
both faculty and resident panelists.  All interviews for CaRMS 2025 will be
completed virtually.  
  
Each interview will be 18-20 minutes in length (for a total of approximately 1
hour total interview time).  The interview panels will ask 3-4 standard
questions based on our selection criteria.  Applicants are encouraged to
answer questions with information to help the panelists understand their
strengths, weaknesses, and the diversity of their lived experiences both in
medical training and their lives outside of medicine.   There is typically
additional time for panelists to ask follow up questions as well in each
session.  
  
Time will be provided for applicants to ask questions of the interview
panelists.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Application Requirements

  * Excellent academic record which demonstrates special proficiency in those subjects related to Orthopaedic Surgery.
  * Candidates should have a proven interest in Orthopaedic Surgery.
  * References should confirm interest and proficiency in Orthopaedic Surgery as well as discussion of your interpersonal and communication skills.
  * Candidates should also have experience in clinical or pre-clinical research, leadership, innovation or entrepreneurship, health advocacy, education, or quality improvement.

## Program goals

The University of Calgary Orthopaedic Surgery Residency Program (OSRP)
provides the highest quality education to trainees in all aspects of care for
patients with musculoskeletal injury and illness.  The program provides
educational opportunities for surgical, non-surgical and population health
through a variety of clinical environments in urban and rural settings.  Our
program champions sustainable improvement in the delivery of care including
clinical and pre-clinical research, medical education, patient and provider
advocacy, quality improvement, leadership and innovation.  Residents are
prepared for completion of the Royal College Orthopaedic Surgery examination
and following this, either independent practice or further fellowship
training.

Our learning environment thrives based on the resiliency, professionalism, and
collaborative support of all of our trainees, present and past faculty, and
other members of the orthopaedic community. We support the well-being of our
trainees through a strong sense of community, inclusion, and continuous
quality improvement.

## Selection process goals

The selection process evaluates applicants on academic performance both in
medical school and other academic stages (such as scholarship) as well as the
following attributes:

  * Leadership
  * Citizenship
  * Interpersonal and team skills
  * Motivation and energy
  * Resilience
  * Professionalism
  * Empathy and humility
  * Communication

These elements are assessed using both the file review process as well as the
interviews.  Particular emphasis is given to evidence of lived experience in
which each element or attribute has been demonstrated, and how challenges have
been met and overcome.

## File review process

Review team composition : Program director(s), members of the Orthopaedic
Surgery Residency Program Committee as well as other faculty representatives
from the program across sites and sub-disciplines.  

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Participation in electives in orthopaedic surgery is essential, in addition to including electives in other fields during career exploration. Elective experience in Calgary is encouraged but not mandatory.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Experience and success in environments outside of medicine such as community groups, athletics, entrepreneurship and innovation, global health, and the arts.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of leadership experience and future potential in both academic and community settings.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evidence of consistent and strong academic performance throughout medical school and clerkship rotations. Professional behaviour and the ability to work in a team environment.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest and committment to orthopaedic surgery based and personal strengths or lived experiences that will add to the Calgary program and the orthopaedic community in Canada.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Evidence of exceptional performance in clinical rotations, research projects or other activities as well as strong communication skills and the highest level of professionalism.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Participation in research projects at the university level ideally leading to successful completion of projects to publication.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Strong academic performance without unexplained gaps or deficiencies.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Elective experiences in orthopaedic surgery are essential to explore the field
and confirm both an interest and aptitude.  As a program, we encourage
applicants to explore several facets of orthopaedic surgery in several
geographic locations if possible.  We also urge applicants to explore other
areas of medicine to understand other clinical fields during their training.  



## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence of success in the team environment, especially in challenging or difficult settings. The ability to outline lessons learned from these experiences is particularly valuable.   
Collegiality |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Communication skills |  Ability to transfer knowledge and ideas clearly as well as listen thoughtfully to the opinions of others. Communication skills are demonstrated during the interview, and also through the description of previous experiences both inside and outside of clinical training.   
Health advocacy |  Ability to show empathy and understand challenges in areas such as health access and resource disparity, including how to address these issues in a patient and community centred manner.   
Interest in the discipline |  Knowledge of orthopaedic surgery training including its challenges and opportunities, in addition to the understanding the breadth and options within an orthopaedic surgery career.   
Interest in the program |  Knowledge of the Calgary program including its unique strengths and opportunities, as well as how the program can support the applicant in their career goals.   
Leadership skills |  Evidence of initiative, innovation, team-skills that has lead to meaningful outcomes both in the clinical environment and other pursuits. Resilience and adaptation in the face of challenges are particularly valuable.   
Professionalism |  Evidence of maturity and insight into the challenges and priviledges of working in medicine through clinical experiences and other work.   
Scholarly activities |  Experience with research in the area of orthopaedics or elsewhere ideally through project completion.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The University of Calgary orthopaedic surgery program boasts a 50+ year
history of exceptional training for residents who have advanced orthopaedic
clinical care, research, education and leadership in Canada and around the
world.  Our clinical community includes subspecialists of all disciplines
within orthopaedics in an integrated community serving our city and region.

The training program has a 100% success rate for our trainees at the RCPSC
exam over the last 10 years.  The majority of our residents pursue fellowship
and other academic training in Canada and around the world, with many former
residents returning to Calgary for their careers.

In addition to clinical work, Calgary has been a hub for musculoskeleal
research and our residents have access to collaboration with engineers,
entrepreneurs, educators, as well as basic and population health scientists
through our University and its associated institutes.  Some of our residents
pursue graduate training during their training.

Our learning environment thrives on the resiliency, professionalism, and
collaborative support of all of our trainees, present and past faculty, and
other members of the orthopaedic community.  We support the well-being of our
trainees through a strong sense of community and inclusion.

Calgary is a vibrant and growing city located at the edge of the Rocky
Mountains to the west, and the Prairies to the east.  It is consistently
ranked as one of the most liveable cities in the world, and the highest ranked
in Canada.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Calgary training program is a 5 year curriculum that includes core
orthopaedic subjects (such as trauma and pediatric orthopaedics) as well as
all subspecialty areas (spine, foot and ankle, hand wrist and elbow, hip and
knee reconstruction, sports medicine, upper extremity reconstruction, and
oncology).  We utilize a compentency based system of learning and evaluation.

Residents complete clinical rotations at all 4 adult sites in Calgary as well
as one paediatric hospital.  Opportunities are provided for electives both in
and outside of Calgary.  Residents are also required to complete at least one
block of training in a regional community hospital outside of the city (but
typically within Alberta).

Clinical training is rotation-based on a 13 block (4 week) schedule.  Most
clinical rotations are either 2 or 3 blocks, with some core disciplines
repeated at a junior and senior level.  Under the competency based framework,
we have also recently implemented a series of "flex" blocks in the final year
of training to allow residents to return to clinical areas that may require
additional time to complete, or to enhance their clinical experience in
preparation for fellowship.

Residents in the PGY1 and PGY2 years also complete the Surgical Foundations
curriculum, which includes rotations in other disciplines such as internal
medicine, emergency medicine, general surgery, and ICU.  

Our program is supported by the majority of the over 75 orthopaedic surgeons
in Calgary, with most participating in a clinical rotation.  

Through academic half day and other activities, residents are required to
participate in independent research, with some residents pursuing advanced
degrees during their training.  Opportunities are also available for
developing skills in leadership, health advocacy, medical education, and
innovation.  

Call schedule requirements and vacation allottments are completed through the
program in keeping with both educational priorities and the governing rules of
the PARA agreement.

_**Rotation**_ | _**Duration**_ | _**Site**_  
---|---|---  
**PGY1** |   |    
Emergency Medicine | 1 block | All  
General Surgery (Trauma) | 2 blocks | FMC  
Internal Medicine | 1 block | FMC  
Acute Care Orthopaedics | 3 blocks | FMC  
Community Orthopaedics | 3 blocks | RGH  
Paediatric Orthopaedics | 3 blocks | ACH  
**PGY2** |   |    
ICU | 2 blocks |    
Orthopaedic Trauma | 2 blocks | FMC  
Arthroplasty | 3 blocks | RGH or SHC  
Spine  | 2 blocks | FMC  
Sport Medicine | 3 blocks | PLC  
Elective | 1 block |    
**PGY3** |   |    
Elective | 1 block |    
Paediatric Orthopaedics | 3 blocks | ACH  
Tumour/Reconstruction | 3 blocks | FMC  
Upper extremity | 3 blocks | SHC  
Foot and Ankle | 3 blocks | PLC  
**PGY4** |   |    
Elective | 1 block |    
Rural Rotation | 1 block  |    
Hand, Wrist and Elbow | 3 blocks | SHC  
Arthroplasty | 2 blocks | RGH or PLC  
Sports Medicine | 2 blocks | SHC  
Orthopaedic trauma | 2 blocks | FMC  
Spine | 2 blocks | FMC  
**PGY5** |   |    
Orthopaedic Clinics | 1 block |    
Paediatric Orthopaedics | 2 blocks | ACH  
Orthopaedic trauma | 1 block | FMC  
Flex blocks | 7 blocks |    
Study blocks | 2 blocks |    
  
Academic half day

Academic time is protected every Thursday from 12pm-6pm for all residents.
The academic half day curriculum is based on a 2 year curriculum covering
topics throughout all of the clinical subspecialities within orthopaedics.  

Most half day sessions include protected independent study time from 12pm-3pm,
followed by a preceptor lead case-based discussion from 3-5pm.  Our half day
sessions are supported by a rich library of resident-prepared podcasts
covering all elements of the curriculum, which are updated on an ongoing
basis.  We utilize a "flipped classroom" approach with our case discussions.
Senior residents provide teaching to their junior colleagues and are also
provided an opportunity to hone their consultancy skills through both small
and large group discussions.

In addition to case based sessions, our residents participate in a variety of
simulation and cadaver-based activities throughout the year using our advanced
surgical skills laboratory (https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/atssl/atssl).  This
includes a yearly review of musculoskeletal anatomy and surgical approaches in
sessions every summer.

We also include allotted time for our residents to participate in the Calgary
Orthopaedic Residency Research Group (CORRG).  This unique effort, lead by our
residency research director, allows residents to develop, initiate, and
complete research projects as a group all the way to publication.  The
academic half day sessions support the learning objectives for residents to
become critical thinkers and scholars.

Finally, we include a curriculum on quality improvement in health care.  This
curriculum has been developed by our local quality improvement team in the
Department of Surgery and provides residents a comprehensive understanding of
QI methodology, as well as giving them an opportunity to define and solve a
problem that it important in their clinical work.

Terminal Objectives for Research

By the end of the Orthopaedic Surgery Residency Training Program, you will be
able to:

1\. Conduct a thorough literature review using a computerized database.

2\. Evaluate an article from a scientific journal, using as criteria:

  * relevance of the topic to current practice
  * significance of the topic in terms of current surgical research
  * adequacy of the method of investigation
  * achievability of study objectives
  * clarity of focus of the study
  * clarity of statement of the problem
  * selection of variables most amenable to study
  * adequacy of method of selecting sample subjects
  * appropriateness of hypothesis
  * validity of data
  * reliability of data
  * precision of measurement
  * appropriateness of methods of data analysis and study design
  * validity of findings
  * identify potential sources of bias
  * adequacy of discussion
  * validity and generalizability of conclusions
  * validity of conclusions

3\. Design and execute, in conjunction with a research supervisor, a research
project that meets the criteria noted in point number 2. by:

  * conducting and analyzing a pilot project with appropriate sample size calculations for statistical analysis
  * proposing and defending an alternative study design for achieving the study objectives
  * conducting the full project
  * writing and submitting a written report on the project - peer-reviewed, publishable-quality reports are desirable

4\. List the basic principles of grant writing.

5\. Keep current in your practice by reading the most appropriate professional
journals.

6\. Alter your professional practice in keeping with the recommendations from
current literature in the field.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Alberta Childrens' Hospital** \- 2888 Shaganappi Trail NW; Calgary, AB

**Foothills Medical Centre** \- 1403 29 Street NW; Calgary, AB

**Peter Lougheed Centre** \- 3500 26 Avenue NE; Calgary, AB

**Rockyview General Hospital** \- 7007 14 Street SW; Calgary, AB

**South Health Campus** \- 4448 Front Street SE; Calgary, AB

**Chartered Surgical Facilities -** Canadian Surgical Centre (1402 8th Ave NW,
Calgary AB) and MountainView Surgical Centre (1016 68 Ave SW, Calgary AB)

**Outpatient clinics** \- Many surgeons in Calgary have outpatient clinic
facilities outside of the hospital environment

**Rural Electives** \- Red Deer, AB; Lethbridge, AB; Banff, AB



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27439?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27439