#  University of Toronto - Ophthalmology - Toronto

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 5

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Amandeep Rai  

Address Ophthalmology  
340 College St, Suite 400  
Toronto, Ontario, M5T 3A9  

Work  416-978-6294

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Sciences
](http://www.utovs.com/)  
[ PGME at U of T ](http://www.pgme.utoronto.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Sandra Gauci

Title: Education Coordinator

Email: educationdovs@utoronto.ca

Phone: 416-978-6294

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and Inclusion  
** All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of
the University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)  
** The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.

_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

If possible one or more letters from a faculty member in Ophthalmology is
helpful but not required.

Suggest elective preceptors who have adequate knowledge of the candidates'
abilities are the preferred choice to provide reference letters.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

We request that the candidates provide a letter discussing themselves as a
person (beyond their CV), their reasons for developing an interest in
Ophthalmology and their career goals and future plans. The letter could
include any unique qualities or accomplishments which they think might be of
interest to our program or relevant to their future career as an
Ophthalmologist. The letter should be no longer than one page, single-spaced
or 500 words maximum.  
  

_Important Note: Please address any gaps in training or remediation periods in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count._





Ophthalmological Report

The eye examination report should include visual acuity (corrected and
uncorrected), refractive error, stereo vision, colour vision, ocular muscle
balance/motility, and health status of the eyes. The report can be provided by
an optometrist or ophthalmologist and must be signed.

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

Please provide a copy of undergraduate transcript, if applicable.

Optional - will be reviewed

Graduate Transcript (Master/PhD Degree)

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 4, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: The interview date is February 4, 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The Resident Selection Committee
reviews all applications based on the above selection criteria. Approximately
15 candidates are invited to the University of Toronto for a personal
interview. For those invited, a full day of interviews will be conducted.
Interviewees only notified via email.  
  
  
  
Each applicant is reviewed by three interview teams comprised of four
individuals per team. Each interview is 20 minutes duration. Each interview
team has one resident member.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

\- A strong academic record

\- Excellent communication and interpersonal skills

\- Candidates should have a proven interest in ophthalmology as demonstrated
by having undertaken electives in ophthalmology or related fields.

  * We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted candidates' opportunities to arrange and complete electives and would like to reassure you that a lack of elective activity this year will not negatively impact your application to our program.

\- It is recommended that references be obtained from academic specialists who
have first hand knowledge of the applicant's performance during their
elective.

\- Candidates with an interest and /or experience in basic science or clinical
research, are encouraged to apply.



## Program goals

We train the next generation of ophthalmologists to be excellent clinicians
and surgeons. Our residents have extensive exposure to all areas of general
and subspecialty ophthalmology. Residents have large surgical case volumes,
and latitude to tailor their PGY5 surgical exposure to their career interests.
Lots of research opportunities are available across our large department. Our
trainees are well prepared to pursue careers in either academic or community
practice.

## Selection process goals

We are looking for candidates with a strong academic record and broad evidence
of success across all their fields of medical training. They should have
demonstrated interest in Ophthalmology by pursuing elective experiences, but
we encourage candidates to demonstrate some breadth in electives with exposure
to other disciplines. Candidates generally should have demonstrated some
success in research, whether in Ophthalmology or another field.
Accomplishments in other areas of candidates' personal and professional lives
are valued also.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our CARMS selection committee consists of the
Residency Program Director, the Chair of the CARMS committee, faculty
representatives from all the teaching hospitals and the community as well as
residents from PGY2-4.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
Our program typically receives 50 - 75 applications in any given year of the
CARMS cycle.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  
We typically interview 16 CMGs and 5-6 IMGs for our available training
positions.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Academic success, awards, leadership activities, accomplishments in sports, music, other fields   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted candidates’ opportunities to arrange and complete electives and would like to reassure you that a lack of elective activity this year will not negatively impact your application to our program.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Sports, music, leadership, business, community service, charitable work   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of Leadership in medical school,   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evidence of solid performance across various disciplines, comments by supervisors   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Reasons for interest in Ophthalmology, career goals, personal achievement and growth. Maximum one page   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Evidence of clinical skills, dexterity, teamwork, learning aptitude   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Success in publication, quality of work. On the first page of your CV, please specifically highlight your top 4 research accomplishments with a brief description of the importance of each. This may include a publication in a major journal, a presentation at a meeting, an award, an ongoing study, etc, and is not limited to ophthalmology work. You may list all research endeavours further in the CV.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic success at both pre-medical undergraduate studies and medical school   
Other file component(s) |  Eye examination - satisfactory best corrected vision in each eye with normal stereopsis (depth perception) - this is necessary for ophthalmic microsurgery. Eye exam can be performed by Optometrist OR Ophthalmologist.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted
candidates’ opportunities to arrange and complete electives and would like to
reassure you that a lack of elective activity this year will not negatively
impact your application to our program.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence of the ability to work well in a team in a medical environment   
Collegiality |  Demeanour, interactions with admin staff, other candidates, our residents, our faculty   
Communication skills |  Ability to listen attentively to interview questions & answer intelligently without rehearsed answer   
Health advocacy |  Evidence of activity related to improving eye health in communities or vulnerable populations   
Interest in the discipline |  Some knowledge of our field, ability to discuss recent topics of interest in ophthalmology   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrate knowledge of our program, and why they might be the right fit   
Leadership skills |  Discussion of a leadership activity of which they are proud   
Professionalism |  Composure during interview, thoughtful answers to stressful questions   
Scholarly activities |  Discuss research - both their own and others   
Other interview component(s) |  Ability to answer a wide range of questions, both related to ophthalmology and knowledge / opinion in general. Preference will be given to candidates who demonstrate the ability to listen, answer questions thoughtfully and thoroughly & not lapse into rehearsed answers.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  
The University of Toronto has centralized much of its teaching and surgical
training at the new Kensington Eye Institute (KEI). Residents have a new
dedicated space at the KEI, which includes a surgical simulator, wet lab,
library, computer workstations, and small group teaching seminar room. Grand
rounds occur on Friday mornings in the Departmental conference room, and there
is dedicated protected time for resident teaching on Friday mornings.

The residents also rotate through all the major Toronto hospitals, including
Toronto Western, Mount Sinai, Sunnybrook, Hospital for Sick Children, St.
Michael's and Princess Margaret. The Ophthalmology Department has a very large
faculty that includes comprehensive ophthalmologists and all sub-specialities.
The University of Toronto also has a large and extremely active basic science
research department.



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

PGY-1  
  

The PGY-1 year is designed to meet the requirements of the Royal College of
Physicians & Surgeons and to prepare the applicant for the Medical Council of
Canada Qualifying Examinations Part II. Upon acceptance into the Ophthalmology
Residency Program, the PGY-1 resident is seconded to the department of
medicine for training. During this time, PGY-1's attend our Friday morning
grand rounds and resident teaching rounds. They have training opportunities in
plastic surgery, ENT, and neurosurgery. They also do a mandatory rotation in
pediatrics on the CTU. Prior to the conclusion of the PGY-1 year, residents
start a 6 week basic science program in ophthalmology called the Toronto
Ophthalmology Residency Introductory Course (TORIC). The program involves
didactic lectures with slide presentations, wet labs and dissection sessions.
This course is attended by ophthalmology residents from all across Canada as
well as some international programs.

  
  

PGY-2 & 3 (Junior Residency)  
  

During the junior residency, residents rotate through each of the 5 teaching
hospitals in order to acquire a solid foundation in the basic science and
clinical aspects of medical and surgical ophthalmology. PGY-2 residents
complete 4 month rotations in general eye clinics which involve exposure to
all areas of ophthalmology and allow development of core ophthalmic knowledge
and skills.  Residents in PGY-3 complete 2 month blocks of "vertical" medical
ophthalmology rotations, including exposure to each of the subspecialty
disciplines including: cornea/external ocular diseases, retina/vitreous,
glaucoma, neuro ophthalmology & oculoplastics. They also complete a 4 month
rotation in pediatric ophthalmology at the Hospital for Sick Children.

  
  

PGY-4 & 5 (Senior Residency)  
  

Senior residents rotate through each of the 5 teaching hospitals. The emphasis
here is on perfecting clinical skills in the general and subspecialty areas of
ophthalmology and to provide a solid foundation in all aspects of surgical
ophthalmology during this period of training. Residents in PGY-4 and 5 are
primarily involved in surgical rotations.

We have created a "longitudinal" eight month rotation in cataract surgery at
the Kensington Eye Institute (KEI). This rotation is "paired" with 8 months of
placements at the four adult "base" hospitals (2 months each at Sunnybrook,
HSC, Toronto Western Hospital, Mt. Sinai Hospital & St. Michael's Hospital).
Residents spend 1/2 of their time at KEI and the other 1/2 at the adult base
hospitals. The remaining 4 months of the year occur at the Hospital for Sick
Children focusing on pediatric eye surgery. Resident will still spend some
surgical time at KEI while at HSC.

PGY-5 residents have a flexible year which is designed to begin emulating the
transition to practice year which will be part of the new Royal College
Competence by Design framework. Highlights of this year include involvement in
a resident run "cataract clinic" providing all aspects of care to cataract
surgery patients including pre and post operative management, and transition
to a "senior back-up" on-call schedule. This year includes a longitudinal
experience in glaucoma surgery at Mt. Sinai/KEI as well as considerable
elective and Royal College study time.

  
  

Research  
  

Resident research is actively promoted. By the PGY-3 level, a major
prospective or high quality retrospective research project should be chosen
and started. This project must be completed by the end of training and
presented at the departmental annual "Resident Research Day" in June.
Residents are also expected to complete one Quality Improvement (QI) project
during the PGY4 year. Residents attend periodic research rounds, presented by
local, national and international research scientists and receive lectures in
critical appraisal of the research literature and clinical epidemiology.
Residents are supported by the department to present their research at
national and international meetings. Residents have protected time for their
research endeavours.

  
  

Seminars  
  

A dedicated academic half-day is committed on Friday morning for core resident
lectures (8:45 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.) given by local faculty and visiting
professors.



City-wide visiting professors rounds are held on Friday morning (7:30 a.m. to
8:30 a.m.) attracting world class lecturers to the University of Toronto.



In addition, there are journal clubs, subspecialty rounds and small group
teaching sessions. We have a fully equipped wetlab with six surgical stations
and a surgical simulator. At the end of PGY3, residents participate in an
extensive preparatory cataract surgery course using the full wetlab resources.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

The Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Sciences at the University of
Toronto provides a fully integrated, comprehensive postgraduate training
program. Residents rotate through 5 fully affiliated teaching hospitals:

-The Toronto Western Hospital, University Health Network

-Mount Sinai Hospital

-St. Michael's Hospital, Unity Health Network

-Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre

-The Toronto Hospital for Sick Children

 Much of the surgical teaching now occurs at the Kensington Eye Institute
(KEI), which is also the location of the Friday morning grand rounds and
academic 1/2 day. The Kensington Vision and Research Centre (KVRC) has
recently opened to provide clinical care and research opportunities. PGY-5
residents run a cataract surgery clinic at the KVRC.

In addition, residents rotate through Princess Margaret Hospital, where they
gain experience in the diagnosis and management of ocular oncology.  

We are currently introducing a mandatory PGY5 rural rotation in Northern
Ontario that will typically require 1-2 trips per senior resident, 1 week each
time. but residents have considerable elective and selective time during their
senior years and are encouraged to pursue community rotations and
international electives.

For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>

* * *

# Additional Information

  1. **Permanent Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education office in order to comply with current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry of Colleges and Universities
  2. **Matched applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data file to the matched university’s postgraduate education office. The postgraduate office will share the information as needed, but not limited to, the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:**  The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure to meet or provide proof**  of any of the stated requirements may result in applicant file being removed at any point during the match.

The ratio of residents to faculty is 24 to 120.

The average patient load is 20.

The library for the Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Sciences at the
University of Toronto has computer facilities with access to email and
electronic journals.

The Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Sciences at the University of
Toronto is the oldest and one of the largest ophthalmology training programs
in Canada. Our commitment is towards excellence in patient care, resident
education and world class basic science and clinical research.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26674?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26674