#  University of Toronto - Neuropathology - Toronto  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on September 19, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Andrew Gao  

Address Laboratory Medicine & Pathobiology  
1 King's College Circle  
MSB, Rm 6207  
Toronto, Ontario, M5S 1A8  

(416) 978-7535

Websites of Interest [ Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology
](http://www.lmp.facmed.utoronto.ca)  
[ PGME at U of T ](http://www.pgme.utoronto.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Paula Nixon

Title: Postgraduate Coordinator

Email: lmp.pg@utoronto.ca

Phone: 416-978-7535

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion**  
All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of the
University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

  
**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)  
** The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.  
  
_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

The Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada: Applying competency-
based practices to residency education.

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/competence-design-e), aims to enhance
patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving
patient needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education
process.

CBD will use [time as a
framework](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e)
rather than the basis for progression. It is not anticipated that the duration
of training will change for the majority of trainees. Residency programs will
be broken down into
[stages](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/documents/cbd/cbd-competence-
continuum-diagram-legal-e.pdf), and each stage will have a series of
milestones based on required competencies. These milestones will create more
targeted learning outcomes and involve more frequent, formative assessments
within the clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving
feedback on the skills they need.

Neuropathology programs in Canada adopted CBD in July 2022. Thus residents
entering Neuropathology will experience CBD-based learning and assessment. As
the adoption of this model is refined it will be enhanced to better reflect
stakeholder needs.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and
traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification. Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs
will include the completion of a Royal College examination; however, residents
in CBD programs will also be assessed against program milestones throughout
their training. Within a CBD program, all milestones (documented within an
electronic portfolio) and the Royal College examination must be successfully
completed to achieve certification.

* * *

# Return of Service

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Neuropathology is the tissue diagnosis and study of disease in the most
complex and eloquent organ system in the human body. We look for trainees who
want to lead the evolution of this unique, fascinating and challenging field
of pathology, and who are committed to the mastery of an ever-changing body of
knowledge and landscape of patient care.  

In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Language assessment document accepted:  **TOEFL-iBT

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:**  7 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Occupational English Test (OET)
-Medicine

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum score of 9 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Letter of language proficiency*

*Alternatively, candidates can submit a printout from the [World Directory of Medical Schools](http://www.wdoms.org/) which clearly states that the language of instruction is English or French.

The **IELTS Indicator**  will be accepted as a substitute for the Academic
Version of the IELTS.

The **TOEFL iBT Home Edition**  will be accepted as a substitute for the TOEFL
iBT.

Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site. Please
review specific program descriptions for more information.

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

  * **Date/milestone assessment submission required:**  File review opening
  * **Requirement:  **Mandatory

For more information on the MCCQE Part 1 click on the following link
<https://www.mcc.ca/examinations/mccqe-part-i/>

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

  * **Date/milestone assessment submission required:  **File review opening
  * **Requirement:  **Mandatory with exceptions*

* MCCQE part II can be used to apply instead of the NAC

For more information on the NAC OSCE click on the following link [National Assessment Collaboration | Medical Council of Canada](http://mcc.ca/examinations/nac-overview/)

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three reference letters from teaching or attending staff are required.

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

Please outline any personal history that may be relevant to your application.
Also state your reasons for choosing Neuropathology as a career and outline
your academic and non-academic accomplishments, as well as future goals.

Maximum word count: 1000 (no minimum)  
  
_Important Note: Please address any gaps in training or remediation periods in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count._

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Optional - will be reviewed

Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS)

If applicant is successful, ACLS is required before commencement of PGY1
clinical rotations. Please visit the PGME website for information on courses
available through the University of Toronto.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Due to the high volume of applications we will NOT consider applications,
reference letters or other supporting documents submitted after the file
review has opened.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: After review of the application files we
will offer interviews only to candidates that have made the interview short
list. Each candidate will meet with the Program Director and site directors  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All interviews will be held via Zoom.
The candidate will have a single interview with the Program Director and site
directors. The interview format is formal; applicants will be asked to talk
about themselves, their interests, reasons for their specialty choices, long
term goals etc. Each interview is expected to last approximately 30-45
minutes.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Applicants providing evidence of high academic achievement, a demonstrated
commitment to clinical neuroscience in general and neuropathology in
particular, and evidence of research or similar academic potential in the
CaRMS application file will be prioritized for further consideration.
Successful applicants will be able to further elaborate their achievements at
the time of interviews.

## Program goals

Our program seeks to equip trainees to be the neuropathology leaders of the
future.  Accordingly, we are looking for a cohort of residents that are
committed to a career in pathology, keen to advance the evolving role of
neuropathology in patient care and are capable of learning, understanding and
integrating the large volume of material required.

Upon completion of training, a resident will become a competent specialist in
Neuropathology, capable of assuming a consultant's role in the discipline. The
resident will acquire a working knowledge of the theoretical basis of the
specialty, including its foundations in the basic medical sciences and
research, as it applies to medical practice.

In the course of training, residents will acquire competence in the
pathological diagnosis of neurological disease using, as appropriate, light
microscopy, electron microscopy, immunohistochemistry or immunofluorescence,
histochemistry, digital pathology, molecular techniques, and other special
methods relevant to the study of the nervous system. A sound basis in
anatomical pathology and in the anatomy, developmental biology, physiology,
and biochemistry of the nervous system is essential to the interpretation of
neurological disease. Residents will be able to correlate neuropathological
findings with clinical features and the results of special investigations, and
be able to advise clinical colleagues on the choice of investigative
procedures and their interpretation. Residents will also acquire skills that
will permit them to undertake laboratory management, supervision of
neuropathology technical laboratories, and postgraduate continuing education.

## Selection process goals

Our program seeks to equip trainees to be the neuropathology leaders of the
future. Accordingly, we are looking for a cohort of residents that are
committed to a career in pathology, keen to advance the evolving role of
neuropathology in patient care and are capable of learning, understanding and
integrating the large volume of material required.

Applicants providing evidence of high academic achievement, a demonstrated
commitment to clinical neuroscience in general and neuropathology in
particular, and evidence of research or similar academic potential in the
CaRMS application file will be prioritized for further consideration.
Successful applicants will be able to further elaborate their achievements at
the time of interviews.

Candidates invited for interview will be ranked based on the scores of their
application (60%), interview performance (40%). Final ranks by the selection
committee will be determined solely by the aggregate score as outlined above.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team is composed of the program director
and site directors.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We evaluate all content including research, publications, volunteer activities and interests   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We encourage applicants to have completed at least one elective in our discipline.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We evaluate all examination results.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We evaluate all activities including mentoring and volunteer activities   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  We evaluate leadership positions and programs that develop leadership skills   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  We evaluate all past performance including undergraduate and graduate studies.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  We evaluate interest in, and dedication to, neuropathology, pathology and neurosciences   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  We evaluate all reference letters for evidence of excellence in CanMEDS roles.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We evaluate participation in, and dedication to, research activties including publications.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We evaluate all academic performance.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We evaluate the ability to work in a team environment to provide exemplary care.   
Collegiality |  We evaluate behaviour, attitudes and professionalism as demonstrated by the candidate.   
Communication skills |  We evaluate proficiency in effective written and spoken English within a team environment   
Health advocacy |  We evaluate dedication to health advocacy.   
Interest in the discipline |  We evaluate interest and dedication to the knowledge and skills required to practice   
Interest in the program |  We evaluate interest and commitment to our Neuropathology Residency Training Program   
Leadership skills |  We evaluate a commitment to developing leadership skills required for a neuropathology practice.   
Professionalism |  We evaluate the ability to demonstrate professional conduct at all times.   
Scholarly activities |  We evaluate all scholarly activity including research and teaching   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * Large volume and wide spectrum of clinical material

  * There are opportunities for interprovincial and international electives while training in our program

  * There are no mandatory rural rotations

  * Extensive educational resources, with 11 faculty spread across 6 training sites

  * Residents have access to electronic medical resources through the hospitals and the University of Toronto library system

  * Research is especially emphasized during training. Residents may undertake research projects while on core, mandatory or elective rotations or opt for dedicated research electives. Residents are expected to give presentations of their projects at the annual Departmental  Research Day



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

In July 2022, our Program implemented Competency Based Education and follows
the Royal College Competency By Design framework.

Transition to Discipline Stage:

This is a 2 block training period which includes core skills and competencies
needed for early residency success.  These include an orientation to
Neuropathology and an introduction to laboratory services. Residents will
become familiar with the autopsy suite, gross room, intraoperative
consultation suite, specimen accessioning, and histology lab. Residents will
have access to work stations with microscope, camera, and access to LIS.
Residents will participate in multiheaded microscope teaching sessions and
will learn laboratory safety policies. Observation and select participation in
grossing, intraoperative consultation, specimen preparation, tissue processing
and slide preparation will be expected.

Foundations Stage:

This training period spans 24 blocks of residency.  Residents experience
clinical rotations designed to support educational opportunities including
neurology, neurosurgery, pediatric neurology, neuroradiology, and internal
medicine. This is followed by relevant rotations within anatomical pathology,
including autopsy, cytopathology, and surgical pathology.

Core Training Stage:

This training period is expected to span 33 blocks of training. This stage
covers the core competencies that make up the majority of Neuropathology
training. Core areas will include teaching in neuroanatomy, surgical
neuropathology, muscle and nerve pathology, autopsy and forensic
neuropathology, pediatric and perinatal neuropathology, and ancillary testing
including immunohistochemistry, electron microscopy, and molecular pathology.
Experience in digital pathology and telepathology is available.

Transition to Practice stage:

During this time (6 blocks), the senior trainee will obtain training
experiences designed to support readiness for independent practice.

Research

Research is emphasised during training and may be based on clinical material
or an experimental project may be undertaken. Areas of research interest in
the division include neurodegenerative diseases, brain tumours, artificial
intelligence, and pediatric neuropathology at both the morphological and
molecular level. Some trainees choose to pursue graduate degrees (MSc or PhD)
during or after their residency training.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Neuropathology Resources**

Neuropathology has staff and facilities at The University Health Network
(Toronto General Hospital), The Hospital for Sick Children, Unity Health,
Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, the Provincial Forensic Pathology Unit and
Mount Sinai Hospital. The training program, however, operates as a single
unit. The volume of material for teaching is extensive in both breadth and
depth and is larger than any other centre in Canada.  There is a structured
academic half day curriculum, and the Neuropathologists and residents all meet
weekly for academic sessions.

For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>

* * *

# Additional Information

**Pre-residency Orientation Programs**

All IMG candidates accepted to all residency programs will be required to
complete either the Pre-Residency Program (PRP) or the Pre-Residency Program
for Family Medicine (PRPFM) prior to entering into a residency program.
Matched IMGs will be expected to attend these programs in Toronto, several
weeks in advance of the start of their residency program. In some cases, this
may result in a delay of the start date of the residency. Additional
information on the PRP and PRP FM programs can be found at the following link:
[Touchstone Institute](http://www.touchstoneinstitute.ca/).

**Assessment Verification Period**

All IMG candidates accepted to residency training programs will be required to
undergo an Assessment Verification Period (AVP). This assessment period is
normally 12 weeks in length and is required by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Ontario to obtain an educational license to enter a residency
program. [CPSO – International Medical Graduates
(IMGs)](https://www.cpso.on.ca/Physicians/Registration/International-Medical-
Graduates).

IMGs that have failed an AVP and are reapplying through CaRMS are ineligible
to apply for training in the same specialty in Ontario but may apply to a
different specialty in the first and/or second iteration. IMGs who have
withdrawn from a program prior to completion of an AVP must declare so upon
application.

**Additional Ontario Information:**

  1. **Permanent Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education office in order to comply with current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry.
  2. **Matched applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data file to the matched university’s postgraduate education office. The postgraduate office will share the information as needed, but not limited to the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:**  The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure to meet or provide proof**  of any of the stated requirements may result in applicant file being removed at any point during the match.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27263?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27263