#  Queen’s University - Diagnostic Radiology - Kingston  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on February 19, 2025

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Andrew Chung  

Address Department of Radiology  
Kingston General Hospital  
76 Stuart St.  
Kingston, Ontario, K7L2V7  

Work  (613) 549-6666 ext. 1253

Websites of Interest [ Diagnostic Radiology
](https://radiology.queensu.ca/academics/radiology)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Ms. Ashlee Charlton-Dorenberg

Title: Administrative Assistant

Email: ashlee.charlton@queensu.ca

Phone: (613) 549-6666 ext. 1253

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Transition to Competence by Design**

This year's applicants will enter the Queen's University Diagnostic Radiology
Residency program in the new national Competence by Design (CBD) curriculum
developed by programs with the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Canada to provide Competency-based Medical Education (CBME) training to
radiology learners. Residents will use time as a framework rather than the
basis for progression. It is not anticipated that the duration of training
will change for the majority of trainees. Residency is broken down into
stages, and each stage has a series of entrustable professional activities
(EPAs) based on required competencies. These EPAs create more targeted
learning outcomes and involve more frequent, formative assessments within the
clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving feedback
on the skills they need.

Queen's University is uniquely positioned as a leader in this time of
curriculum-building and transition. Queen’s University received approval to
adopt a Competency-based Medical Education model in all specialty programs,
effective July 1, 2017. We are now in our eighth year post implementation of a
CBME curriculum, with our first three CBME cohorts having challenged their
Royal College specialty examinations and moved onto the next stage of their
careers. Our experience with CBME principles and tools will ensure a smooth
transition of our training program to CBD.

Further information on CBD can be found on the Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Canada [website](https://www.royalcollege.ca/en/standards-and-
accreditation/competence-by-design.html).

**EDIIA Institutional Statement:**

The goal of resident selection is to identify trainees likely to succeed both
in training and, once out in practice, in meeting the health care needs of
patients and Canadian society.  We know that having a physician workforce that
reflects the demographics of the patients that they serve improves health care
outcomes.  There are many populations within Canada under-represented in
medicine (UIM) with a paucity of health care practitioners who are Black,
Indigenous, Persons of Colour, 2SLGBTQ+, from lower socioeconomic backgrounds
and/or with disabilities, and other under-represented in medicine (UIM)
groups. Diversity within training programs has also been shown to improve
training environments.  Queen’s University PGME is strongly committed to
diversity and inclusion within its community for these reasons as well as
being part of the solution to address historic and contemporary inequities.

**Equity and diversity**

We welcome diversity among our trainees and seek to foster an environment that
is welcoming to all, regardless of gender identity, race, religion, or sexual
orientation.

We are committed to advancing equitable and inclusive practices.  Please refer
to the [PGME website](https://meds.queensu.ca/academics/postgraduate/faculty-
staff/applicant-selection) for additional information / resources including
[QHS EDIIA Initiatives](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi) and [EDIIA
statements](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi/accessibility-
statements) (Indigenous Land Acknowledgement, Anti-Discrimination Statement,
Inclusion Statement, and Statement on Social Accountability)

**Casper Test - Required**

All applicants are required to complete the Casper Test (Acuity Insights) to
assist with our selection process.

Casper is an online test that assesses non-cognitive skills and interpersonal
characteristics. To complete Casper visit
[https://acuityinsights.app/casper](https://takecasper.com/aboutcasper/) to
create an account. In implementing Casper, we are trying to further enhance
fairness and objectivity in our selection process.  

The Casper test comprises sections of video and written scenarios. Following
each scenario, you will be required to answer a set of probing questions under
a time contract. The test typically takes between 75-90 minutes to complete.
Each response is graded by a different rater, giving a very robust and
reliable view of personal and professional characteristics important to our
program. No studying is required for Casper, although you may want to
familiarize yourself with the test structure at
[https://acuityinsights.app/casper](https://takecasper.com/aboutcasper/), and
ensure you have a quiet environment to take the test. We strongly urge you to
take advantage of provided practice materials, which will not only immerse you
in the test environment but will also ensure you meet the technical
requirements to access and complete the test.

The test dates for postgraduate programs can be found: [Casper test dates and
fees - Take Casper (acuityinsights.app)](https://my.acuityinsights.app/dates-
times)

There is a cost to applicants to take the test, which can then be used for all
of your CaRMS applications. After your results are processed you will be
notified by CaRMS to log in so that CaRMS will assign your Casper score to the
programs you've applied to who request the test score. You will not receive
your own score.

Casper test results are valid for one admissions cycle. Applicants who have
already taken the test in previous years will therefore be expected to re-take
it. This is because your score is reported as a z-score within the group of
all other applicants of the same year.

_More information is available under Supporting Documentation > Additional
Documents (Required)_

**Electives**

We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted candidates’ opportunities
to arrange and complete electives and would like to reassure you that a lack
of elective activity this year will not negatively impact your application to
our program.

#### COVID-19 vaccination requirements:

Please refer to the 'Restrictions' section of the [Ontario eligibility
criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/) for messaging regarding COVID-19 vaccination requirements.

**Gaps in Training, Remediation, or Professionalism issues**

Please address any gaps in training, remediation, or professionalism issues in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count.

* * *

# Return of Service

If you have a ROS agreement in another province please ensure you aware of the
commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Please note that due to the volume of applications our program receives we are
not able to provide individual feedback to applicants who are not successful
in the match.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three reference letters only. If possible, one or more reference letters from
a faculty member from Radiology is helpful, but not required. We realize that
this may not be possible this year with the restrictions on electives and
reassure you that this will not be detrimental to your application.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Please tell us about yourself. Maximum 500 words (there is no penalty for
being a little over or under).

Custom Résumé / CV

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Documents that are not in English must be accompanied by a notarized
translation. Students applying in the last year of medical school will need to
submit their most recent marks/transcripts, and will need to provide proof of
their MD to CPSO prior to the start of residency training.

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

Inclusion of undergraduate transcript is not required but is encouraged.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 5, 2025
  * February 6, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews are mandatory. The objectives of
the interview are to meet the applicant, review his/her application, and
assess his/her communication skills. Only applicants being offered an
interview will be contacted, via email, on **January 14, 2025.   **Interview
dates are **February 5-6, 2025**. All interviews this year will be conducted
virtually, with details to follow at time of interview offer.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: There are two interviewers per room.
Interviews are expected to be conducted by three radiologists and three
residents. The interview format is not formally structured, and there will be
no tests of clinical knowledge or radiologic images. Only candidates who have
interviewed will be ranked.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We are looking for applicants with varied experiences in medicine, but also a
demonstrable interest in radiology and record of strong academic performance.
Queen's radiology is a close-knit community of residents and radiologists, and
candidates should possess strong communication and interpersonal skills as
well as an interest in Kingston and contributing to the Queen's medical
community. Residents at Queen's have access to immense opportunity for hands-
on learning, with early and in-depth experience with procedures and advanced
imaging, which at some institutions might be reserved for more senior trainees
or clinical fellows. We are seeking candidates comfortable with maximizing
these opportunities through staff-led and self-directed learning. Endorsements
of professionalism and work ethic, particularly in the Medical Student
Performance Record (MSPR) and letters of reference are highly valued.

Information from the CaRMS file review and in-person interview will be used to
determine rank order.

## Program goals

The overall goal of our program is to produce competent diagnostic
radiologists who are knowledgeable in all forms of diagnostic imaging and are
able to assist referring physicians in arriving at a diagnosis. The program
recognizes and respects the need for both academic and community-based
radiologists and is designed to facilitate training in both of these major
career pathways.

Training is founded on graduated experience and responsibility, and the
trainee must acquire the knowledge, skills, and attitudes appropriate to the
specialty and profession through a comprehensive program of diverse academic
and clinical experiences, including: case review and reporting, procedures,
consultations, call, academic half-day, lecture and case-based rounds, and
research.

The program is designed to assess resident progress, attitudes, and abilities
with respect to their peers at comparable levels and to provide timely
communication of the results of assessment through constructive feedback and
encouragement in order to help modify and/or optimize their learning
experience. New residents will be evaluated through the framework of
competency-based medical education (CBME), which allows for more continuous
and focused feedback and clearly defined training objectives. Each resident is
paired with a staff radiologist, who serves as their Academic Advisor to
provide feedback on their performance thrice annually and who may provide
mentorship and guidance throughout residency.

The program is also committed to continual improvement, and residents take an
active role in the evaluation of faculty, individual rotations, and the
program as a whole.

## Selection process goals

Successful candidates should exhibit:

  * History of academic achievement, including faculty-led and self-directed learning
  * Strong communication and interpersonal skills, demonstrating maturity and empathy
  * Professional attitude, including punctuality and work ethic
  * Interest in research and critical appraisal
  * Interest in Kingston and desire to contribute to the Queen's medical community
  * Manual dexterity and visual perception skills

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is composed of three radiologists
(including the Program Director) and three residents

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Education and work history, awards and achievements, research experience   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Varied elective experience, at least one in radiology, is preferred   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Academic performance   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Contributions to the community/ability to maintain work-life balance   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership roles undertaken, endorsements of leadership qualities   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic performance, endorsements of interpersonal and professional qualities   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Clarity of communication, interest in radiology, interest in Kingston/Queen's   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Endorsements of performance, work ethic, interpersonal and professional qualities   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research history, publication/presentation, experience with methodology, interest in radiology   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Communication style, direct or indirect discussion of inter-professional collaborative experiences   
Collegiality |  Communication style, demeanour, direct or indirect discussion of conflict management +/- examples   
Communication skills |  Communication style and clarity   
Health advocacy |  Direct or indirect discussion of patient advocacy issues +/- examples, demonstrable awareness of the role of radiology in patient diagnosis and treatment   
Interest in the discipline |  Direct or indirect discussion of reasons for choosing radiology, radiology experience, research   
Interest in the program |  Knowledge of the program/city, reasons for interest in program/city, personal ties to program/city   
Leadership skills |  Direct or indirect discussion of leadership and teaching experiences, communication style   
Professionalism |  Communication, demeanour, discussion of professional conduct (experiential and/or conceptual)   
Scholarly activities |  Academic history and performance, research/teaching experience and interest   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * Close-knit program of residents and radiologists provides a warm and enjoyable interpersonal and professional experience
  * Excellent faculty-to-trainee ratio and immense resident opportunity for hands-on learning, with early and in-depth experience with procedures and advanced imaging, which at some institutions might be reserved for more senior trainees or clinical fellows
  * Experienced faculty in the delivery of a competency-based curriculum with a robust system of continual feedback, individual mentorship (each resident is assigned a faculty Academic Advisor), and clearly defined goals and objectives for competency
  * Located in Kingston, one of the most picturesque and liveable small cities in Ontario; highlights including: waterfront properties and activities, historic downtown, short commute times, lower cost of living, a bustling restaurant and tourism scene, central location between numerous larger metropolitan areas (Toronto, Montreal, Ottawa, Syracuse), and proximity to numerous beautiful leisure destinations (Prince Edward County/Sandbanks Provincial Park, the Thousand Islands)

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The curriculum meets or exceeds all current requirements for eligibility to
write the final Royal College examination. The precise composition of blocks
may be subject to some changes as we optimize the curriculum for the new
nationwide Competence by Design (CBD) curriculum.



## Transition to Discipline (9 blocks)  
  

Introductory Radiology

Internal Medicine

General Surgery

Pediatrics

Emergency Medicine

Neurology

Urology

Elective



## Foundation of Discipline (8 blocks)



Ultrasound

Neuroradiology

Abdominal CT

Chest

Gastrointestinal/Genitourinary

Musculoskeletal

Research

Elective



## Core of Discipline (43 blocks)



Abdominal CT

Gastrointestinal/Genitourinary

Abdominal MRI

Breast

Chest

Cardiac

Musculoskeletal

Neuroradiology

Nuclear Medicine

Fetal Assessment Unit

Ultrasound

Interventional Radiology

Pediatrics (Sick Kids - Toronto)

Community Radiology

American Institute of Radiologic Pathology (AIRP)

Research

Elective



## Transition to Practice (5 blocks)



Junior Staff

Elective





**Research**

Dedicated research time tailored to the development of critical appraisal
skills. Topic to be chosen with and supervised by the Resident Research
Director. Each resident is expected to participate in a single research
project. This might be in quality assurance, clinical study, or basic science.
Projects are performed under the supervision of a staff radiologist, and the
overall process is guided by the Resident Research Director.

The research project is expected to start in the Transition to Discipline
phase. A research block is scheduled in that phase, as well as during the
Foundation of Discipline (FOD) and Core of Discipline (COD) phases, and
additional elective time is available for research later in residency.

**Seminars**

A variety of seminars are offered during the five year training program to
include: basic radiography, medical ethics, physics, contrast media, research
methodology, quality assurance, and hospital administration. The department
has an active visiting professor program consisting of three intensive
teaching sessions for our residents by distinguished radiologists from outside
our institution during each academic year.

* * *

# Training Sites

The Kingston Health Sciences Centre sites include:

Kingston General Hospital

Hotel Dieu Hospital

Breast Imaging Kingston



See description of hospitals in the Introduction to Queen's University
programs in the carms.ca website.

Other facilities used include:

Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario (for the mandatory three (3)
block pediatric rotation.  Residents live in a shared two bedroom condominium
leased by the Faculty of Health - which is used by all Queen's University
residents).

American Institute of Radiologic Pathology (four week radiologic pathology
course).



* * *

# Additional Information

There are opportunities to take interprovincial and international electives
while training in our program.

While there are no mandatory rural rotations, residents have used their
elective blocks for this purpose.

Ratio of residents to faculty is 1:2.

Average patient load: >200,000 cases per year across 3 institutions.

* * *

# FAQ

**What are you looking for in a strong candidate?**

We are looking for applicants with varied experiences in medicine, but also a
demonstrable interest in radiology and record of strong academic performance.
Queen’s radiology is a close-knit community of residents and radiologists, and
candidates should possess strong communication and interpersonal skills as
well as an interest in Kingston and contributing to the Queen’s medical
community. Residents at Queen’s have access to immense opportunity for hands-
on learning, with early and in-depth experience with procedures and advanced
imaging, which at some institutions might be reserved for more senior trainees
or clinical fellows. We are seeking candidates comfortable with maximizing
these opportunities through staff-led and self-directed learning. Endorsements
of professionalism and work ethic, particularly in the Medical Student
Performance Record (MSPR) and letters of reference are highly valued.

** **

**I was unable to complete an elective at Queen’s. Will this negatively impact
my application?**

No, on-site electives are not mandatory. While we welcome outreach by medical
students in order to get to know our program and the city of Kingston better,
you should consider these opportunities to inform your program selection. Not
having the opportunity to pursue these activities will not disadvantage you in
receiving an interview offer or candidate ranking. Furthermore, we recognize
that the pandemic has resulted in the loss of opportunity for on-site
electives for applicants.

** **

**What sort of opportunities are there for residents to develop their teaching
skills within residency?**

Radiology residents are responsible for a variety of formal evaluated teaching
rounds including departmental Grand Rounds, Journal Club, and
interdisciplinary radiology teaching rounds for Radiation Oncology. Residents
also participate in informal peer-teaching including “Case of the Week” rounds
during Academic Half Day as well as day-to-day mentorship of junior colleagues
and off-service or elective trainees. Additional teaching opportunities at the
undergraduate medical level are available for interested residents.

** **

**Are there research opportunities available at Queen’s?**

Yes, Queen’s University has a fully subspecialized radiology practice based at
a tertiary care centre with wide catchment area. There are numerous
radiologists who are heavily engaged in research who can provide mentorship
and supervision for resident research.

** **

**How are you  managing the transition to the Royal College’s national
Competence by Design (CBD) radiology curriculum?**

Queen’s University is an advance site for competency-based medical education
(CBME) with an extra 5 years of experience with CBME through our previous
transitional radiology curriculum, which followed the principles and structure
of CBD laid down by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.
This has allowed us to build much of infrastructure necessary for CBD
(Competence Committee, Academic Advisors, assessment platforms) and has
allowed our faculty to build expertise in utilizing CBME tools and concepts.
When you enter residency, you will be preceded colleagues who are already
pioneering the new CBD curriculum. Their experiences will allow us to make
further optimizations to ensure a great CBD experience for you at Queen's.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26469?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26469