#  University of Manitoba - Psychiatry - Winnipeg

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 12

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Michael Harrington  
Dr. Nina Kuzenko  

Address Psychiatry  
PsycHealth Centre  
PZ-412 - 771 Bannatyne Avenue  
Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3E 3N4  

Work

(204) 787-4879

Websites of Interest [ Department of Psychiatry University of Manitoba
](https://umanitoba.ca/medicine/department-psychiatry)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Program Administrator

Title: Program Administrator

Email: PsychPGEAdmin@exhange.hsc.mb.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

The **Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation**  for all residents, **which
is MANDATORY** , will be held on June 26, 2025.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

The University of Manitoba Psychiatry training program offers a supportive and
welcoming learning environment. Residents are active and central members of
the department of psychiatry, and the community as a whole comes together to
ensure excellence in education.

Our program has been able to develop an excellent balance between the
biological and psychological perspectives of treating psychiatric illness.
Residents receive expert training in biological and somatic treatments as well
as a high level of training in several modalities of psychotherapy.

**Application**

It is preferred that all required documentation is available at the time of
the opening of the application review period.  Documents submitted after the
deadline will be reviewed and considered to the extent possible given the
timing of those documents becoming available.

**Interview Information**

Virtual Interviews only. Interviews will only be considered for those
candidates with completed applications. Candidates selected for interviews
will be contacted by email.

The selection process includes two interviews of approximately 30 minutes
each; one conducted by a committee and one by the residency program director.  

Candidates will be selected on the basis of a demonstrated interest in,
aptitude and motivation for a career in psychiatry. Selection criteria include
recent clinical clerkship and elective experiences in psychiatry, prior
residency training in psychiatry or clinical work in the mental health field,
along with relevant life experiences and test results. References from
clinical supervisors that address an applicant's potential for work in
psychiatry are very helpful. Demonstrated proficiency with the English
language as evidenced through the nature of undergraduate courses completed
including university level English courses, publications, the submitted
personal letter and/or IELTS scores are also selection criteria. Strong
interpersonal and communication skills and a demonstrated interest and
curiosity about the human experience are important criteria that are explored
in the interview process. Interest and experience in scholarly work and
research are viewed as valuable assets.

While elective experience in psychiatry is an asset on-site electives are not
required for application to our program.  We are looking for candidates that
have completed electives in a broad range of topic areas that include our
specialty and are enthusiastic about working with residents from a variety of
backgrounds.

You are required to fulfill ALL of the most current Provincial Criteria for
Canadian Medical Graduates for Manitoba

The criteria can be found at:  <https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Reference documents

Required

Applicant support form  Number requested: 3

Traditional letters of reference are no longer accepted for this program. Your
referee must complete the required structured reference form. Please include
this link in your reference request:
<https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/2025-Psychiatry-Structured-Reference-Letter-EN.pdf>

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Applicants should write a self-authored letter of no more than 500 words
highlighting their reasons for selecting psychiatry as a career including
personal attributes, qualities, and experiences that led to an interest and
aptitude for training in psychiatry. It would be beneficial to include an
explanation of your specific interest in the University of Manitoba program.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Optional - will be reviewed

Custom Résumé / CV

Self-identification questionnaire

  * The University of Manitoba, Rady Faculty of Health Sciences promotes and supports a community that embraces equity, diversity and inclusion, provides for equality of opportunity and recognizes the dignity of all people. These are key values to create an inclusive community for all. The University encourages applications from Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women, persons of a minority sexual orientation and/or gender identity, and all candidates who would contribute to the diversity of our community.
  * We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self-Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete confidentiality. We are in the data collection phase currently.  Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self-identification questionnaire, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so, the information received would only be used for program selection improvement in future years. It will not be used for selection purposes this year. Any self-identification questionnaires received will NOT be reviewed as part of our file review process or used as an aid for file reviewers for the 2023 match.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applications, references and documents which arrive after the application
deadline may not be able to be considered.

All completed applications submitted by the time the file review period has
opened will be considered for selection for interview.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025
  * January 27, 2025
  * January 28, 2025
  * January 29, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: All interviews are planned to occur on
January 22, 23, 24, 27, 28, 29, 2025 Only virtual interviews will be
conducted.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Virtual interviews only. Interviews
will only be considered for those candidates with completed applications.
Candidates selected for interviews will be contacted by email.  
  
The selection process includes two interviews of approximately 30 minutes
each; one conducted by a committee and one by the residency program director.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates will be selected on the basis of a demonstrated interest in,
aptitude and motivation for a career in psychiatry. Selection criteria include
recent clinical clerkship and elective experiences in psychiatry, prior
residency training in psychiatry or clinical work in the mental health field,
along with relevant life experiences and CaSPER results. References from
clinical supervisors that address an applicants's potential for work in
psychiatry are very helpful. Demonstrated proficiency with the English
language as evidenced through the nature of undergraduate courses completed
including university level English courses, publications, the submitted
personal letter are also selection criteria. Strong interpersonal and
communication skills and a demonstrated interest and curiosity about the human
experience are important criteria that are explored in the interview process.
Interest and experience in scholarly work and research are viewed as valuable
assets.

## Program goals

The five-year residency training program in Psychiatry at the University of
Manitoba is a well established, thriving and growing program designed to
produce psychiatrists with broadly based academic and clinical expertise.
Residents receive clinically based training with a focus on mastering all
aspects of psychiatric practice  including biological and psychological
therapies. The University of  Manitoba program also focusses on the care of
vulnerable and underserved populations, and exploring models to deliver
effective mental health treatment to distant areas.

## Selection process goals

Successful applicants to the residency program will demonstrate academic
excellence, excellent communication skills, and a history of advocating for
patient mental health. CVs, and application packages are reviewed to assess
these attributes and they are also assessed during the interview process. As
an aspect of our selection process, applicants learn about the unique
opportunities available at the University of Manitoba, including opportunities
to develop mental health resources and deliver care to various vulnerable
populations. The selection process is viewed as occurring collaboratively with
applicants.

## File review process

Review team composition : Invitations are determined based upon review of
submissions. A composite score is developed based on academic achievement,
demonstrated ability in communication with patients, success in clinical
rotations and psychiatry, and strong references

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  All experiences relevant to psychiatry considered   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Psychiatry electives encouraged but not mandatory   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Reviewed during file review   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Relevance to Psychiatry   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  CV is broadly considered   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Document reviewed for evidence of success   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Communication of Character Traits and Professional Achievements   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Documents considered   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Any research or publications are considered beneficial   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Reviewed during file review   
Other file component(s) |  We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self-Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete confidentiality. We are in the data collection phase currently. Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self-identification questionnaire, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so, the information received would only be used for program selection improvement in future years. It will not be used for selection purposes this year. Any self-identification questionnaires received will NOT be reviewed as part of our file review process or used as an aid for file reviewers for the 2025 match.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  First aspect of interview is a series of standardized questions
conducted in a panel  
  
Every applicant also has a separate structured interview with the program
director that also has extended opportunity to ask questions and have a
discussion about the residency program  
  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evaluated within the structured interviews   
Collegiality |  Evaluated within the structured interviews   
Communication skills |  Evaluated within the structured interviews   
Health advocacy |  Evaluated within the structured interviews   
Interest in the discipline |  Evaluated within the structured interviews   
Interest in the program |  Evaluated within the structured interviews   
Leadership skills |  Evaluated within the structured interviews   
Professionalism |  Evaluated within the structured interviews   
Scholarly activities |  Evaluated within the structured interviews   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The five-year residency training program in Psychiatry at the University of
Manitoba is a well established, thriving and growing program designed to
produce psychiatrists with broadly based academic and clinical expertise.

We see our responsibilities as including the following:

1.  To train psychiatrists who are fully qualified to practice within the complex, changing field that is modern psychiatry.

2.  To provide a breadth of exposure and opportunity for in depth training in the many varied aspects of psychiatry appropriate to the candidate's chosen community of practice.

3.  To provide a formal education program which prepares the residents not only for success at the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons (RCPS) specialty examinations but will also fulfill the many roles of a competent physician including:

  * Medical expert/clinical decision maker

  * Communicator

  * Collaborator

  * Medical manager

  * Health Advocate

  * Scholar

  * Professional

4.  To continue to change and evolve our training program in response to the changing needs of residents, community and the specialty of psychiatry.

The program is designed to meet these objectives through several overlapping
approaches including clinical rotations, didactic seminar series,
psychotherapy training program, research, community-based experiences and
continuing education.

As our program is growing we have maintained all the advantages of a medium-
sized program.  We have all of the resources of a larger program and the
welcoming, friendly and personal atmosphere of a smaller program.  Training in
our program will leave you ready to comfortably move into your career as a
psychiatrist.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Curriculum**

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard. Curriculum

The PGY-1 year is a basic clinical training (BCT) year, designed to meet the
requirements of the RoyalCollege and to prepare trainees for Part II of the
Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Examination (MCCQE).

There is a protected time academic half day from PGY-1 through PGY-5 when the
core academic didactic series occurs. In addition, clinical service rounds,
general departmental teaching rounds, continuous case seminars and grand
rounds are available for all residents. An ongoing interview skills and OSCE
course done by former RCPS examiners at both teaching hospitals is available
for PGY-1 to PGY-5 residents.

Residency enhancing opportunities exist in psychiatric teaching, psychiatric
research, and rural/remote clinical work

**PGY-1**

The PGY-1 is a Basic Clinical Training (BCT) year preceding four years of
formal psychiatric training. The PGY-1 year consists of 52 weeks of training
divided among core rotations in psychiatry including rotations in inpatient
psychiatry, emergency room psychiatry, and community psychiatry. This is
combined with rotations in family medicine, emergency medicine, neurology and
internal medicine that give a foundation of practice for psychiatric work.

During the second half of PGY-1 residents begin psychotherapy training
consisting of weekly psychotherapy sessions with one patient and supervision
sessions in a group format. This is incorporated into the Academic half day
and represents a unique and early exposure to psychotherapy training which
reﬂects the department's commitment to psychotherapy training overall.

There is a weekly academic half-day (protected) which covers the areas of
pharmacology, psychopharmacology, research methodology and an introduction to
the main models and formats of psychotherapy seminars in psychiatry over the
course of the PGY-1 year. The second half of the protected academic half-day
series is clinical in nature and includes training in interview skills and
initiating an individual psychotherapy case with psychotherapy supervision
provided in a small group format. The inclusion of psychotherapy training in
the PGY-1 year represents an early exposure and reﬂects the program's
commitment to and strengths in the area of psychotherapy training.

**PGY-2**

This year is composed of two, 6-month serial blocks of adult inpatient
psychiatry and adult outpatient psychiatry. A core seminar series runs, in
addition to the clinical service rounds, grand rounds, general departmental
teaching rounds and workshops for all residents. The core seminar series
occurs during a protected 1/2 day and covers a variety of areas including,
phenomenology diagnosis, psychotherapeutic modalities and psychopharmacology.
One individual psychotherapy supervisor is assigned at the beginning of this
year. Residents are also assigned to a two-hour Family Therapy Clinic in pairs
and have supervised experience in supportive psychotherapy.

**PGY-3**

This year consists of two, 6-month blocks, one in each of geriatric psychiatry
and child and adolescent psychiatry. There is a core seminar series throughout
this year, the focus of which is both child and adolescent psychiatry and
geriatric psychiatry. The seminar series is taught by the faculty members from
the sections of child and adolescent psychiatry and geriatric psychiatry. The
seminar series in PGY-3 enhances and consolidates understanding of normal and
pathological development throughout the life span. As of the PGY-3 year,
residents are assigned to two individual psychotherapy supervisors.

**PGY-4**

The PGY-4 year includes 6 months of consultation-liaison psychiatry and 6
months of Severe and Persistent Mental Illness. In addition there are
longitudinal experiences in Shared Care/Collaborative Care that occur
throughout the PGY4 year. The PGY-4 academic half-day constitutes an advanced
seminar series covering the topics of object relations theory, cognitive
behavioural therapy, advanced psychopharmacology and research issues, ethics,
palliative care and mood and anxiety disorders, professional development, oﬃce
practice, etc.

The PGY-4 academic half-day is comprised of group study time and an exam
preparation course.

**PGY-5**

The PGY-5 year consists of 6 months of elective time and 6 months of selective
training. Residents can chose from a wide variety of elective rotations. Our
program has approximately 35 diﬀerent rotational experiences available as an
elective.

Formal psychotherapy supervision continues through the PGY2-5 years of the
program and opportunities for training in a wide variety of psychotherapeutic
modalities are signiﬁcant components of the overall program.

Clinical oral examinations are held annually for all PGY2-5 residents. Written
examinations are held at the end of each of PGY 2,3 and 4.

Residents in PGY2-5 are expected to participate in Community Psychiatry
placements in community clinics, community based agencies, rural sites and
Arctic sites under the supervision of faculty. These community exposures range
in duration from one half day several times per year to a single four day
exposure in a remote, northern or arctic site.

The Department of Psychiatry provides ﬁnancial support for residents to attend
and/or present at conferences and workshops.

The University of Manitoba Department of Psychiatry has a Royal College
accredited subspecialty residency program in Child and Adolescent Psychiatry
and Geriatric Psychiatry. It is anticipated that a subspecialty program in
Forensic Psychiatry will be developed in the near future.

**Research**

The development of resident research skills is an important focus of the
training program. All residents are provided with teaching in this area. All
residents are encouraged to participate in academic projects within the scope
of their individual interests. All residents are required to complete at least
one publishable research paper prior to the completion of PGY3. Resident
presentations at cross service rounds, departmental grand rounds and academic
meetings are an important part  of the residency training program. Up to one
year of residency, during PGY5 elective/selective time may be dedicated to
research.

There is also a Research Track available during residency with a focus on the
creation of clinician scientists. The Department of Psychiatry will provide
research track residents additional support and mentorship to foster the
development of research as a signiﬁcant component of their future career.

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

The major teaching sites are at the PsycHealth Centre a state of the art
facility at the Health Sciences Centre, the McEwen Building at the St.
Boniface General Hospital and the Victoria General Hospital. Elective
opportunities exist at the Manitoba Adolescent Treatment Centre. Community
training experiences are available at community hospital based clinics and
hospitals including the Selkirk Mental Health Centre. Community psychiatry
experiences in Northern Manitoba and the Arctic are available through
Ongomiizwin which provides for exposure to the unique health care needs of
Aboriginal and Inuit communities.

* * *

# FAQ

**Where are interviews held?**

All CaRMS interviews are held virtually using the Zoom platform.







Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26765?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26765