#  McMaster University - General Surgery - Hamilton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 6

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Ilun Yang  

Address Juravinski Hospital and Cancer Centre  
711 Concession St. - B3/Rm. 143  
Hamilton, ON L8V 1C3, Ontario  

Cell  (289) 440-6904

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Department of Surgery
](https://surgery.mcmaster.ca/divisions/general-surgery)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Katie Niblock

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: niblock@mcmaster.ca

  

Name: Dr. Ilun Yang

Title: Program Director

Email: yangi@mcmaster.ca

Phone: (905) 521-2100, ext. 76241

  

* * *

# Important Information

Students who wish to speak with the Program Director about the program can
contact Katie Niblock at niblock@mcmaster.ca.  The Program Director will be
happy to discuss the program over the phone or virtually.

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/).  It is important to review the
requirements carefully.

 To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit:
<https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/>

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed.

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held virtually on
January 23 & 24, 2025  
  

  * Niagara Stream Interviews - January 23, 2025
  * Hamilton Stream Interviews - January 24, 2025

There will be a meet and greet with faculty and residents, from both Niagara
and Hamilton, on Thursday, January 23, 2025 in the evening.  Details will be
circulated to those being interviewed.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Formal interviews will be granted to
candidates shortlisted after review of complete applications by the Residency
Education Committee. The Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview. The interview consists of two 15 minute interviews with 2-3
surgeons and a resident. The content of the interview includes a review of the
application file and an invitation to the applicant to demonstrate coherent
interest in surgery as a subject and McMaster University in particular.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates will be graded on the content of their letter of application; the
strength of their references; the academic record; and the demonstration of
their interest in our surgical training program when interviewed.



## Program goals

The program aspires to help residents determine which of the many types of
career that are possible within General Surgery best fits their interests and
goals, and provide them with the knowledge and skills required to be
successful in their chosen career. The program will have the flexibility to
allow for rotations tailored to meet the individual learning needs of our
residents and the requirements of the Royal College for certification in
General Surgery. Residents successfully completing the program will be well
prepared for the next phase of their career, whether that be transition
directly to practice in a range of practice settings or advanced clinical or
academic training. Thus, our graduates successfully practice across the entire
spectrum of General Surgery from isolated, small rural hospitals to complex
tertiary care hospitals and Academic Health Science Centers.  We function in
an atmosphere of collaboration where all participants contribute to the
success of the program.

## Selection process goals

Our process seeks to identify candidates who are well suited to a career in
General Surgery and a good fit for the collaborative culture of our program.
Successful applicants will have an excellent understanding of what General
Surgery offers to them that other specialties do not, and how their personal
strengths align with the attributes required to succeed in General Surgery.
They will demonstrate willingness to engage in the process of continuous
improvement, both in their own development and within the broader health care
system including our learning environment. They will demonstrate the ability
to take full advantage of the learning opportunities that are offered. They
will demonstrate their commitment to collaboration, patient care and a healthy
balance between their professional and personal lives. Their stated career
goals will be supported by the material contained in their application.

## File review process

Review team composition : Each file is completely reviewed and scored (using a
standardized list) by 1 or 2 faculty, 1 or 2 residents and the Program
Director. 60 applicants are then selected for interview.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
100 - 150 applications are reviewed to identify the 60 candidates who will be
invited to interview.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Capacity to learn, support for described interests and skills   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Appropriate exploration of career choice   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Collaboration, leadership, work/life balance, judgement   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Demonstration of collaborative skills   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  reviewed   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Reasons for choice of General Surgery, a good sense of who the applicant is, knowledge of our program   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Referees that truly know the applicant   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Concordance with career goals   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Any concerns with regards to professionalism; adequate academic achievement   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: n/a

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Will be supportive of fellow learners, work effectively with other health professionals, work with educational and hospital leaders to optimize learning and patient care.   
Collegiality |  Appreciation of the needs of others   
Communication skills |  Organized thinking, clarity   
Health advocacy |  Health promotion, health protection, quality improvement, etc.   
Interest in the discipline |  A true understanding of the specialty and your suitability for this career   
Interest in the program |  An real understanding of what our program offers and how it aligns with your values and needs   
Leadership skills |  Decisiveness within a collaborative process; how you empower those that you lead   
Professionalism |  Ethics, understanding of professional standards   
Scholarly activities |  Commitment to the work required to succeed   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

General Surgery is a five-year program. Years one and two comprise the
Surgical Foundations Program.

All candidates at the completion of the surgical foundations program will be
regarded as eligible to take the Principles of Surgery Examination which for
general surgery must be successfully completed prior to applying for the final
examination.

**YEAR ONE**

  * ​1 block of “rookie camp” (education sessions)
  * 1 block of Trauma
  * 1 block of Acute Care Surgery at HGH
  * 6 blocks of non-ACS general surgery at SJH and JHCC
  * 2 blocks of pediatric general surgery
  * 1 or 2 blocks of internal medicine or perioperative medicine
  * 1 block of ​emergency medicine (optional)

  
  

**YEAR TWO**

  * 3 blocks of acute care surgery at SJH or JHCC
  * 2 blocks of non-ACS general surgery at HGH
  * 2 blocks of non-ACS general surgery anywhere in Hamilton
  * 3 blocks of ICU
  * 3 blocks of Endoscopy

  
  

**YEAR THREE + FIRST 10 BLOCKS OF YEAR FOUR**

  * ​Up to 6 blocks of community or elective general surgery outside Hamilton
  * Up to 4 blocks non-general surgery surgical specialty (e.g., Vascular, Thoracic, Head and Neck, Urology, Plastics)
  * 2 blocks of breast oncology
  * 3 blocks of acute care surgery at SJH or JHCC
  * 1 block of acute care surgery at HGH
  * 1 block of Trauma
  * 4 to 6 blocks of general surgery anywhere in Hamilton
  * Up to 3 blocks of non-general surgery elective blocks, e.g., research, global health, non-surgical rotations



**LAST 3 Blocks of year four + YEAR FIVE – THE “CHIEF YEAR”**

  * 14 blocks of general surgery
  * 2 blocks of “transition to practice” clinical experiences

**ACADEMIC CURRICULUM**

  * General Surgery Grand Rounds, JHCC (4th Floor Lecture room) – Wednesdays @ 0730-0830. Rounds take place from September to June.
  * PGY1-2 Surgical Foundations Program - Wednesdays @ 0900-1200 - organized by Dr. Darren De Sa & Dr. Laura Nguyen. These sessions will help in preparation for the Surgical Foundations exam. PGY2 residents participate in thse sessions until the SF Royal College Exam, after which they participate in the GS teaching listed below.
  * PGY2-3 Teaching sessions - Wednesdays @ 0900-1100H 
  * PGY4-5 Teaching sessions - ​Thursdays @ ​1500-1700H

**COURSES AND OTHER TRAINING**

  * PGY1 ATLS course
  * PGY2 Endoscopy Training Course
  * PGY1 Basic Laparoscopic (CMAS) Course
  * PGY3 Advanced Laparoscopic (CMAS) Course
  * PGY4-5 Abdominal Wall Reconstruction and Parastomal Hernia Course
  * PGY4 ATOM Course
  * PGY4 ASSET course
  * PGY2-3 Crisis Management Resource Training

**JOURNAL CLUBS**

Several journal clubs are held throughout the year, guided and facilitated by
residents and faculty.

**RESEARCH**

The program requires completion of 2 research projects during residency. This
is guided by the Program Research Director, who meets with residents early in
PGY1 to begin the process. Infrastructue support such as statistical analysis
is available, as well as several funding mechanisms. Residents may schedule a
research block when required for completion of their projects.

We also offer opportunities for formal academic training such as a Masters or
PhD degree. The Surgeon Scientist Program assists residents who wish to apply
for a position in the McMaster Clinician Investigator Program. While highly
competitive, our residents have had good success in securing a position. An
alternative is to do a 1 year program such as an MPH (while our residents have
completed a number of quite diverse programs, the MPH at Harvard has been a
particular favorite). The program has an endowment (The Charles and Margaret
Juravinski Fellowship) that provides funding support for such endeavour
through a competitive internal selection process.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

**St. Joseph’s Hospital**

St Joseph's Hospital is a located in downtown Hamilton - 50 Charlton St. East

  * 11 General Surgeons
  * Acute Care Service, General Surgery, Surgical Oncology, Colorectal surgery, foregut surgery, Minimal Invasive Surgery, Bariatric Surgery, Endoscopy



**Hamilton General Hospital**

Hamilton General Hospital is located in the 'east' part of Hamilton - 237
Barton St. E

  * 7 General Surgeons
  * Trauma, Acute Care Surgery, General Surgery, Endoscopy

** **

**Juravinski Hospital and Cancer Centre**

The JHCC is located on the east mountain - 711 Concession Street

  * 14 General Surgeons
  * Acute Care Service, hepatobiliary surgery, colorectal surgery, Breast oncology, General Surgery, Surgical Oncology, Endoscopy



**Community hospitals commonly involved in the Program**

  * Oakville
  * Joseph Brant in Burlington
  * Brantford
  * Markham-Stouffville
  * MacKenzie Health
  * Kitchener-Waterloo
  * Collingwood
  * St. Catharines and Niagara
  * Credit Valley

* * *

# Additional Information

**ASSESSMENTS**

As part of the Competence by Design (CBD) model, residents receive feedback
through work-based assessments using the Entrustable Professional Activities
(EPAs). In addition, at the end of each general surgery rotation, each
resident receives narrative feedback from each faculty on that rotation,
through our Program’s custom End-of-rotation assessment forms. In PGY3-5,
residents additionally receive feedback on their operative performance using
the O-SCORE form.

**ORAL EXAMS**

Practice oral exams occur twice a year for all residents. These exams allow
assessment of residents’ knowledge and oral exam skills, and feedback for
residents.** **

**CAGS EXAM  **(CANADIAN ASSOCIATION OF GENERAL SURGERY)

This exam occurs each October and allows assessment of your knowledge** **

**SURGICAL FOUNDATIONS EXAM**

This occurs during the second year during the spring. Residents must apply for
the [Preliminary Assessment of
Training](http://www.royalcollege.ca/portal/page/portal/rc/common/documents/credentials/preliminary_assessment_application.pdf)
one year prior to taking the Surgical Foundations exam. Detail can be found on
the [Royal
College](http://www.royalcollege.ca/portal/page/portal/rc/credentials/start)
site.

**RESEARCH DAY**

General Surgery Resident Research Day is held annually.

**RESEARCH PROJECTS**

Each resident is required to complete a minimum of two research projects by
the end of the five years. Guidance will be provided by the Program’s Research
Director, Dr. Elena Parvez, and other faculty. The research projects are
expected to be presented at the annual Program Research Day.

**MASTERS OR PHD DURING RESIDENCY TRAINING**

Residents may have the opportunity to pursue an advanced degree, e.g., Masters
or PhD during their residency training. This is typically done through a leave
of absence that commences after completion of PGY2 or PGY3. Residents may
compete for one of McMaster University’s six funded RCPSC Clinician
Investigator Program (CIP) positions. Other non-CIP options for pursuing an
advanced degree will also be considered.

It may also be possible for some residents to complete part-time degree
programs during their residency training without a formal leave of absence.

The Division of General Surgery has an endowment, the Margaret and Charles
Juravinski Surgical Fellowship, that is awarded through a competitive peer
review and adjudicated process and can provide funding for salary support for
a research leave of absence.** **

**CAREER REVIEW**

Each resident meets one-on-one with the Program Director two times a year.
These meetings allow review of resident’s progress, rotations- and career
planning, and discussion of any issues that arise during training. In
addition, an open door policy is in effect at all times with the Program
Director.

**CAGS**

The program provides all residents with a Canadian Association of General
Surgery (CAGS) membership.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26681?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26681