#  Dalhousie University - Hematological Pathology - Halifax  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Tish O'Reilly  

Address Hematopathology  
5788 University Avenue  
Mackenzie Building, Room 206E  
Halifax, Nova Scotia, B3H 1V8  

Work  tish.oreilly@nshealth.ca

Websites of Interest [ Dalhousie University Hematological Pathology
](https://medicine.dal.ca/departments/department-
sites/pathology/education/residency-program/hematological-pathology.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Julie Griffith

Title: Program Administrator

Email: pathres@dal.ca

Phone: (902) 473-5197

  

* * *

# Important Information

The Hematological Pathology Residency Program has one (1) CaRMS position. We
are pleased to invite you to apply to our program for July 2025 academic year.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

  

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

####  

You must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident _**at the time of
application**_.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three reference letters should be submitted. References should be from
physicians with whom you have worked, and who are able to attest to your
professional abilities.  

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

The personal letter should state why you are specifically interested in
Hematopathology. Maximum word count of 750.

Optional - will be reviewed

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 29, 2025
  * January 30, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held January 29 and 30,
2025  
  
Interviews will be on virtual platform.  
  
Please direct all enquiries to the Pathology Residency Administrator.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews for Hematopathology are
conducted by members of a Selection Committee which includes the Program
Director, two other staff hematapathologists, and a resident representative.  
  
There will be two 25-minute interviews, each with two members of the selection
committee. We reserve the right to adjust the interview process to ensure
fairness to all eligible applicants.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

The goal of our residency program is to train safe and competent
hematopathologists. Residents who successfully complete their hematological
pathology training at Dalhousie University are well prepared for independent
clinical practice, though fellowship opportunities await should further sub-
specialization be desired. We strive to help the next generation of
hematopathologists become leaders in the field, and advocates for excellence
in diagnostic services and patient-centered care.

  

## Selection process goals

The following are the criteria we consider when offering interview and ranking
candidates:

  * A favourable academic record
  * References from physicians in clinical or laboratory disciplines, under whose supervision you have worked and who can attest to your professional and personal qualities
  * A demonstrable interest in research is an asset
  * Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, as evidenced by the written application documents and interview
  * An appreciation for the unique nature of Hematopathology practice, preferably with prior exposure during an elective
  * A well-written personal letter stating why you are specifically interested in Hematopathology
  * Our program and university value the importance of equity, diversity and inclusion (EDI) in residency education, and achieving a diverse and inclusive group of residents is a goal in our selection process

## File review process

Review team composition : Applications will be reviewed by the CaRMS selection
committee, which is composed of four (4) members of our division:  
\- Program Director  
\- Two additional staff hematopathologists  
\- A resident in the program

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Education, employment, volunteer activities, research experience, awards/accolades   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Exposure to the practice of hematological pathology   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Well-rounded; work-life balance   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Type and extent of leadership experience   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic performance   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Written communication skills   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Favorable references   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Productivity   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic excellence   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Demonstrates, or describes experiences that illustrate, an ability to work collaboratively   
Collegiality |  Is collegial in an interview setting   
Communication skills |  Has excellent verbal communication skills   
Health advocacy |  Aptitude for advocacy work in health care   
Interest in the discipline |  Is interested in and has knowledge of the field of hematological pathology   
Interest in the program |  Is familiar with the program at Dalhousie University   
Leadership skills |  Can illustrate examples of leadership from their previous endeavors   
Professionalism |  Comports themselves in a professional manner   
Scholarly activities |  Can discuss their academic achievements and future endeavors   
Other interview component(s) |  Critical thinking; practical knowledge of hematological pathology is an asset, but will not be formally assessed   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * Relatively small program (currently 2 residents).
  * Comprehensive training in all aspects of hematological pathology, including a world class tissue typing laboratory.
  * Off-site training in pediatric hematopatohlogy and maternofetal transfusion medicine at the IWK Health Centre is within walking distance.
  * Excellent working relationship between the hematopathologists and the hematologists.
  * Clinical training in benign and malignant hematology, including stem cell transplantation, in pediatric and adult populations.
  * Provincial reference laboratory for blood transfusion services.
  * Highly engaged, collegial faculty with breadth of expertise who deliver high quality, one-on-one supervision and teaching.
  * Superb success rate for Royal College examination and employment upon completion of program.
  * Referral center for hematopathology in Atlantic Canada, with excellent volume and variety of laboratory specimens available for residency education
  * New, spacious, and well-equipped resident work areas.
  * Comprehensive academic half-day curriculum 
  * Resident issues are considered to be of great importance at the divisional and departmental levels
  * Strong support to enhance learning environment and to balance more routine clinical work
  * Excellent opportunities for research
  * Research methods course offered every two years 
  * All pathologists’ offices have dual-headed teaching microscope; several rooms have multi-head teaching microscopes including a 10-head teaching microscope.
  * Development of strong examination skills with nationally created annual in-house exam, and annual FISHE and TMISE exams
  * Electives may be taken at appropriate institutions 
  * A program director who cares about each resident and facilitates all of the residents reaching their full potential.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.



**PGY- 1 to 4**

Since July, 2022, all PGY1 residents in Hematological Pathology residency
training programs throughout Canada will implement a Competence By Design
(CBD) curriculum format. This is a competency-based medical education system
instituted by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

The resident will be evaluated on Entrustable Professional Activities (EPAs),
which are authentic tasks related to the practice of hematological pathology.
The resident will transition through the stages of training (i.e., Transition
to Discipline, Foundations of Discipline, Core of Discipline, Transition to
Practice) as they achieve the necessary CanMEDS milestones.



**Transition to Discipline**

The focus of this initial stage is the orientation of new trainees to the
policies, protocols, resources, and facilities of our residency program and
affiliated hospitals), including laboratory safety and issues of privacy and
confidentiality. During this stage, residents will participate in basic
specimen handling and microscopy and demonstrate an understanding of
clinicopathologic correlation. This stage is expected to take two months to
complete.



**Foundations of Discipline**

The focus of this stage is the development of the knowledge and skills
required to integrate clinical and laboratory information in the evaluation of
disease processes. This includes assessing patients and performing select
clinical diagnostic procedures. It also includes assessing laboratory samples
and generating reports for routine diagnostic investigations, as well as
advising on routine requests for blood components. This stage is expected to
take 10-15 months.



**Core of Discipline**

This is the longest stage at approximately 28 months, during which residents
will build on the skills and knowledge of the previous stages to provide
laboratory clinical consultations and manage diagnostic and ancillary testing
for cases, including generating complete and diagnostically accurate reports.
Trainees at this stage will take on additional responsibility for after-hours
coverage, quality management, presentations at multidisciplinary conferences,
and scholarly work.

The resident will sit the Written portion of the Royal College Hematological
Pathology Exam during the Core of Discipline stage, in Spring of PGY3. The
Applied portion of the Royal college exam will also take place during this
stage, in Fall of PGY4.



**Transition to  Practice**

The focus of this 4-month stage is the consolidation of skills required to
lead daily operations of the laboratory and independently manage a full
caseload across the breadth of hematological pathology practice. Residents
will also be responsible for the supervision of junior learners and sharing
expertise in hematological pathology at multidisciplinary meetings. 1 block of
training will be in community rotation, as an inclusive experience at Saint
John Regional Hospital.



**Educational Program**

An academic half-day is held every Friday, during which time the residents are
excused from all service responsibilities. This includes didactic and small
group sessions plus teaching at the multi-head microscope. Additional relevant
teaching rounds include quality assurance, journal club, interesting case and
difficult case rounds.



**Research**

Opportunities to pursue basic science and applied clinical research are
abundant. Residents are encouraged to engage in one well-designed research
project during their residency. Residents have the option of protected
longitudinal research time and focused research blocks. Residents are
encouraged to present their work at the annual Departmental Research Day as
well as at national/international conferences. Financial support is provided
for PGY2 through PGY4 residents to attend a conference annually at which they
are presenting their work ($1500). Residents are required to present a poster
or platform presentation at the annual Pathology Departmental research day in
PGY2 through PGY4.



**Teaching Opportunities**

Residents are essential advocates and teachers for the medical students and
residents rotating through hematological pathology. They regularly teach their
peers during clinical service. Residents are also encouraged to provide
teaching sessions to our medical laboratory technologists.



**In-house exams**

In-house exams are held annually for all residents in the program. This is a
full mock-Royal College exam created by a national committee for a
standardized experience of all HP residents in Canada. These exams are
designed to simulate the Royal College Exam experience, and include written,
practical, and applied (i.e., oral exam) components. All residents write the
Fellowship In-Service Hematopathology Examination (FISHE) and Transfusion
Medicine In-Service Examination each spring.

* * *

# Training Sites

**QEII Health Sciences Centre, Halifax, NS**

  * Mackenzie Building (primary site)
  * Halifax Infirmary

**IWK Health Centre, Halifax, NS**

**Saint John Regional Hospital, St. John, NB**



Each training site has resident work space and appropriate resources for
clinical service. Residents have ready access to high quality digital cameras
with dedicated computer and imaging software and a digital slide scanner.

In addition, on-site tours of the Canadian Blood Services production facility
in Dartmouth complement training received in transfusion medicine.



Specific Laboratory Medicine and Pathology Resources:

The Hematopathology Library contains printed and electronic text books and
journals, which are frequently updated. Electronic conference equipment
including an LCD projector with attached computer, microscope and monitors,
are available onsite.  10- and 6-head microscopes with digital cameras and
viewing screens are used for teaching and case rounds.



NOTE: All residency programs aim to have 10% of their residency training
outside of Halifax Regional Municipality as stipulated in the most recent
Academic Funding Plan set out by the Department of Health and Wellness. Please
be aware that if matched to Halifax, as part of your training you may be
expected to complete rotations outside central zone but within the maritime
provinces.

* * *

# Additional Information

_Train with an exciting team of young hematopathologists in a collaborative
and collegial atmosphere. The Hematopathology Division is based in one of
Canada’s largest health care institutions and is a referral centre for complex
Hematopathology cases in Atlantic Canada. The Program is comprehensive, with
excellent facilities and training resources. All facilities in Halifax are
within walking distance of each other., including a well-established bone
marrow (allogeneic and autologous) and solid organ transplant program. The
QEII Health Sciences Centre also features an internationally accredited blood
transfusion service. Likewise, the IWK Health Centre is the main pediatric
referral centre for all Atlantic Provinces and is located down the street from
the QEII Health Sciences Department of Pathology. The Halifax Regional
Municipality is home to the Provincial Blood Coordinating Program, and
Canadian Blood Services. Program-wise, there is ample opportunity to
collaborate with faculty both in the clinical and laboratory spheres, as well
as interact with fellows in the Adult Hematology and Pediatric
Hematology/Oncology fellowship programs, as well as residents in General
Pathology, Anatomical Pathology, and Medical Microbiology._

_Halifax enjoys a relaxed atmosphere with a high quality of life. Commuting
times and the cost of living and housing are relatively low compared to many
large Canadian cities.  Your time in residency will be rich, both in academic
experience, as well as in extra-curricular endeavors._

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27211?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27211