#  University of Ottawa - Family Medicine - Rural Pembroke

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream including MOTP/MMTP for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 5 click here

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Sohil Rangwala  

Address Family Medicine  
600 Peter Morand Crescent  
Suite 201  
Ottawa, Ontario, K1G 5Z3  

6135625800

Websites of Interest [ Médecine familiale / Family Medicine
](http://www.familymedicine.uottawa.ca/)  
[ Video ](https://youtu.be/zKwUQ7pFCBc)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Kim Rozon

Title: Postgraduate Program Manager

Email: krozon@uottawa.ca

Phone: 6132201905

  

Name: Richard Johnson

Title: Site Program Director

  

Name: Christine Caron-Goulet

Title: Unit Coordinator

Email: c.caron-goulet_pfmtu@hotmail.com

  

* * *

# Important Information



#  FMProC

  * All applicants (CMG and IMGs) to ALL Canadian Family Medicine Programs, in the 1st and 2nd rounds of the CaRMS cycle, **are required to sit an online Situational Judgement Test (SJT)** , called “FMProC” (Family Medicine Professional Choices).
  * This will help us better assess 4 selected attributes in our applicants that are critically important to being a Family Physician: Professional Integrity, Adaptability, Team Collaboration, and Empathy/Compassion.
  * There are two different test windows:

  1. The test window for 1st round CaRMS is open from October 28th , 2024, 8AM ET to November 11th, 2024 8AM ET.
  2. The test window for 2nd round CaRMS is open from February 27th 10AM ET 2025 to March 12th , 2025, 10AM ET

  * Registration window for first round: **Registration opens September 11th at 12 noon ET and closes on November 7th at 10AM ET.** If you register before October 23rd, 2024, you will receive the test link on or before October 28th , which can be accessed once the test window opens. If you register after October 23rd, you will receive the test link within two business days.
  * Registration window for the second round opens February 25th at 12 noon ET and closes March 10th at 12 noon ET. Once you register, you will receive a test link within two business days

**FOR MORE INFORMATION**  

English Info:
<https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/sites/default/files/teams/128/FMProC/FMProC_CProMF%202025_Information_V2.0%2024-07-25%20ENG%20Clean.pdf>

English FAQ:
<https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/sites/default/files/teams/128/FMProC/FMProC_CProMF%202025_FAQs.pdf>



French Info:
<https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/sites/default/files/teams/128/FMProC/FMProC-
Information%202024%202nd%20round%20FR%20V1.0%2024-07-29%20FR.pdf>

French FAQ:
<https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/sites/default/files/teams/128/FMProC/FMProC%202024_FAQs_V1%2024-07-29%20%20FR.pdf>



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

The University of Ottawa, Family Medicine Program has 6 streams in which a
candidate can apply.  If a candidate chooses to apply to more than one stream
only one personal letter is required.  It is recommended to mention in the
letter to which streams you are applying to and the reasons for this.  If you
are applying to our bilingual stream (Montfort) we do not require you to
translate any documentation.  We recommend that you write your letter with
certain paragraphs in English and some in French.  PLEASE NOTE IT IS NOT A
REQUIREMENT TO BE BILINGUAL TO BE A SUCCESSFUL CANDIDATE IN OTTAWA, only if
you apply to the bilingual program (Montfort).

All candidates must meet the Ontario criteria of eligibility.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  * Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  * Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  * Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  * Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Examinations

Required

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Family Medicine Programs have adopted the Canadian Family Medicine _Structured
Reference Letter_. Any FM program requesting a reference will require this
form. Traditional narrative letters will NOT be accepted.  Once requested by
the applicant via the CaRMS platform, the referee should be automatically
directed to complete the form.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

Your autobiographical letter should answer the following questions (1000 words
or less). -

 **“Why have you chosen family medicine as a career?”**

Your answer should:

* Justify why your training or life experience has prepared you to become a Family Physician

* Explain how significant life events or experiences are linked to your choice of this specialty

* Provide insight into how do you see family medicine's role in the delivery of the health care in Ontario

** **

**  “What personal attributes do you possess that will support you in this
career?”**

** **  
---  
  


**“Why are you interested, specifically, in the uOttawa Family Medicine
program?”  **



If you have a special interest in family medicine such as obstetrics,
palliative medicine, geriatrics, sports medicine, Emergency Medicine, Global
health, etc please let us know.

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 28, 2025
  * January 29, 2025
  * January 30, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews for short-listed candidates are
mandatory.  Only one interview is required regardless if a candidate applies
to more than one stream in the Family Medicine Ottawa program. Following
review of the CaRMS application, personal letter and reference letters, **ONLY
short-listed candidates will be INVITED for an interview via email.** There
will be three interview dates (January 28, 29 and 30th).  For those who will
be offered an interview, you will be invited to virtual information sessions
to know more about our program and sites.  This session will allow you an
opportunity to interact with our current residents, faculty, adminsitrative
staff and program director.  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: For those applying to more than one
stream within the Family Medicine residency program at the University of
Ottawa, only one interview will be scheduled.  Scores from your interview will
be shared with each stream.  
  
Interviews will be 20 to 25 minutes with an opportunity to ask questions at
the end.  The interview will be conducted by a preceptor and a current family
medicine resident.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We review and select applicants based on the submitted package.  Only
candidates who submit complete applications will be considered for file
review.

We select candidates on the basis of a solid academic record, excellent
reference letters, strong interpersonal skills, and extracurricular success. A
strong interest in Family Medicine and the University of Ottawa must be
evident. All applications will be evaluated, and interviews will be offered
based on this evaluation.

## Program goals

Our program trains residents to allow for independent practice anywhere in
Canada.

To care for patients across the full lifespan,

To allow for independent practice anywhere in Canada,

To understand and demonstrate Quality Improvement and primary care research
skills,

To train according to the CanMeds Family Medicine Principles

We reflect the needs of Canadian society in our training program. This
includes accountability to all members of society and appropriate resource
utilization

To demonstrate professionalism and empathy at all times, using effective
communication skills

To ensure a work/life balance centered in wellness

To ensure residents meet the evaluative criteria of the program

## Selection process goals

The successful candidate, through a multi-faceted assessment process
(including file review and interview process), will be assessed as meeting the
threshold criteria established by our program goals. The ultimate goal will be
to ensure that the residents selected will be able to work collaboratively
with peers, staff, and patients and eventually provide excellent primary care
to all Canadians in all jurisdictions

## File review process

Review team composition : A team of 15-30 active family medicine preceptors
will be reviewing all application files

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 601 +  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Balance of medicine and non-medicine activities, research, community involvement and accomplishments   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  See elective criteria below   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  FM ProC   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteer activities, and personal achievement are considered in the file review process   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Degree of advocacy and organisational management skills will be particularity noted   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  MSPRs are considered during the file review process   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Life experience related to family medicine; understanding the role of the Family Physician in care   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  We evaluate if and how the applicant achieves components of the CanMEDS framework and their ranking   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  The quality of research projects/publications and the role the applicant played in the project   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We evaluate transcripts for academic performance and standing   
Other file component(s) |  Not applicable   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We encourage applicants to have completed at least one elective in our
discipline, however, the program is aware that this might not be possible.  We
examine the type of electives for equivalency to family medicine experiences.

The University believes that the best residents are those who have been able
to explore the breadth of the medical profession through a variety of
electives while enrolled in medical school.  

It is not a requirement that candidates have completed an elective within our
home program.



## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We evaluate the applicant’s ability to work in a team environment through their past experiences   
Collegiality |  We evaluate the applicant’s ability to foster collegial relationships through their past experiences   
Communication skills |  Ability to communicate during interviews; the ability to speak and answer questions in a clear and organised manner   
Health advocacy |  This component is specifically addressed in the interview process   
Interest in the discipline |  We evaluate the applicant’s knowledge of and passion for Family Medicine   
Interest in the program |  We evaluate the applicant’s knowledge of and interest in the Ottawa program   
Leadership skills |  We evaluate the applicant’s demonstrated leadership ability through their past leadership roles   
Professionalism |  The applicant’s professionalism during the interview and as demonstrated in their past experiences   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Other interview component(s) |  Not applicable   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Are you a new graduate looking for a Family Medicine Residency program located
in a growing rural community within a 90-minute drive of a large urban centre?
Then look no further!

Pembroke-Petawawa is located in the County of Renfrew along Highway 17,
Located only 140 km West of Ottawa. Renowned as the Whitewater Capital of
Canada, we are cradled between the Ottawa River and Algonquin Provincial Park.
Pembroke is a vibrant small city of 16,200 and home to the Pembroke Regional
Hospital, a regional centre with a staff of 750 who deliver a broad range of
health care to a catchment area of 100,00 people. Petawawa is a friendly town
with a dynamic, youthful population (mean age is 32), founded on its natural
resources and strategic military role.

Our family practice teaching clinic is attached to the Pembroke Regional
Hospital (PRH) and has become the residents' base throughout the two years of
training. The PRH has 105 beds and access to many specialists, including an
ICU and imaging, CT, and MRI. The size of PRH allows us to do rotations in
obstetrics, ER, Geriatrics, Psychiatry, Hospitalist, and Internal Medicine
within Pembroke. The only rotation requiring travelling is in the pediatric
wards at CHEO in Ottawa. No more living out of suitcases!

Our family medicine preceptors practice comprehensive family practice.
Exposing trainees to full spectrum cradle-to-grave care. Residents will get
lots of hands-on opportunities with both office and hospital procedures. The
curriculum is structured as a half-horizontal curriculum, detailed below. This
mix maximizes the opportunities for comprehensive care within family medicine,
with some block-based rotations that benefit from more intensive exposure.

Here, you can build on your skills and consider creating a practice that
prioritizes your interests and professional goals while guaranteeing your
chosen lifestyle. You will discover that a stimulating team approach to health
care is at the forefront of our work within our practice environment.

After graduation, locum / full practice opportunities are available and offer
an excellent opportunity to learn more about our medical groups and community.
By then, you will be familiar with most of the physicians in our area, so the
transition should be easy. Since our Inception in 2009, 95% of our graduates
have chosen to practice rurally, with only 3 doing +1's. We want you to know
we aim to maximize your confidence and competence within the 2-year program.

We offer increased remote exposure in Barry’s Bay and Deep River.  If you
match to Pembroke, you can select this as part of your training and spend 2
blocks in the first and second year in one of those communities.  Family
doctors run their hospitals in small communities and will provide added remote
skills to make you comfortable serving the needs of Canada’s very underserved
remote communities.

Our greater community has all the amenities you and your family will need and
a wide range of practice options you will be exposed to during your two years
with us.

If rural family medicine is a career goal, we encourage you to visit our
teaching unit located at the Pembroke Regional Hospital. We pride ourselves on
offering you the most in-depth rural family medicine education anywhere.

We welcome the opportunity to tell you more about us and hope you will
consider joining our program.

Dr. Richard Johnson

Preceptor, Pembroke Site Director & Graduate of the PFMTU

**RESIDENT TESTIMONIAL**

Hi, my name is Farnaz Babanorouzi, and I am a family medicine residency
program graduate from the University of Ottawa, a rural site in Pembroke. My
experience has been incredibly rewarding. One of the perks of residency in a
rural setting is that rural residents are usually the only learners with
greater access to a mix of hands-on training. As the only learner, my
residency training in Pembroke has prepared me to practice in any setting.
Whether I continue to practice in a rural setting or not, I would be prepared
either way. Another reason that rural practice has been a great experience,
particularly in the Ottawa Valley, is the people. Raised in a big city like
Toronto, I could see how patients in rural areas trust your knowledge and
greatly appreciate caring for them, where there is a definitive shortage of
doctors. Lastly, short commutes, lower cost of living, lack of traffic and
pollution, and many others, why one should consider practicing in a rural
setting!

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**First-year curriculum****(Note: 1 Block = 4 weeks, 13 blocks per year)**  
The rural curriculum is half horizontal curriculum:

  * 6 blocks are done as a mix of family medicine, geriatrics, emergency medicine and a couple of days at the Pikwakanagan First Nations Health Clinic
  * 1 block of Hospitalist medicine.  
  * 2 blocks are done as a mix of psychiatry and family medicine.  
  * 1 block of OB
  * 1 block of Pediatrics at CHEO ER & Wards
  * 1 block of Internal Medicine
  * 1 block of Elective

During the off-service rotations, residents have two full-day family medicine
continuity care clinics.

**Second-year curriculum****(Note: 1 Block = 4 weeks, 13 blocks per year)**

  * 6 blocks are done as a mix of family medicine, geriatrics, emergency medicine and a couple of days at the Pikwakanagan First Nations Health Clinic
  * 1 block of Hospitalist medicine.  
  * 1 block of Family Medicine Rural
  * 1 block of OB
  * 1 block of Surgical (general surgery, orthopedics and minor surgery)
  * 1 block of Selective
  * 2 blocks of Elective

Emergency shifts are spaced throughout the six-block horizontal family
medicine component, making incorporating new skills and knowledge easier.

**LONGITUDINAL REMOTE PILOT**

**First-year curriculum****(Note: 1 Block = 4 weeks, 13 blocks per year)**  
The rural curriculum is half horizontal curriculum:

  * 4 blocks are done as a mix of family medicine, geriatrics, emergency medicine and a couple of days at the Pikwakanagan First Nations Health Clinic
  * 2 blocks in a remote area
  * 1 block of Hospitalist medicine.  
  * 2 blocks are done as a mix of Psychiatry and Family Medicine.  
  * 1 block of OB
  * 1 block of Pediatrics (CHEO ER & Wards)
  * 1 block of Internal Medicine
  * 1 block of Elective

During the off-service rotations, residents continue to have 2 full days of
family medicine continuity of care clinics.

**Second-year curriculum****(Note: 1 Block = 4 weeks, 13 blocks per year)**

  * 4 blocks are done as a mix of family medicine, emergency medicine and a couple of days at the Pikwakanagan First Nations Health Clinic
  * 2 blocks in a remote area
  * 1 block of Hospitalist medicine.  
  * 1 block of Family Medicine Rural
  * 1 block of OB
  * 1 block of Surgical (general surgery, orthopedics and minor surgery)
  * 1 block of Selective
  * 2 blocks of Elective

**Academic Day**

Our residents join all other Ottawa Family Medicine residents once per block
in Ottawa to get high-quality academic day teaching.

* * *

# Training Sites



Our rural stream is located in Pembroke, Ontario, 1 hour 30 min, away from
Ottawa.

This horizontal curriculum has been constructed to increase the opportunities
for continuity of care as residents follow their patients in the clinic more
regularly and can follow those patients in and out of the inpatient setting.
The geriatrics component of this program is done once a week, during geriatric
outpatient day hospital and half a day of nursing home rounds.

 Emergency shifts are spaced throughout the six-block segment, making it more
accessible to incorporate new skills and knowledge.



* * *

# Additional Information

Applications may be submitted in either English or French.  If you are
applying to more than one stream you may submit only ONE PERSONAL LETTER with
a statement identifying which other streams you are applying to and the
reasons.  Reference letters will be accepted in both languages.  Please note
that all selected candidates must be able to communicate effectively in
English (oral and written).

Communication Preference

Our preferred manner of communicating with all applicants is via email.

Please note that in our program it is important that residents have an
independent means of transportation to get from their Family Medicine
placement to their rotation training sites and to rural practices; public
transportation may not be sufficient.

Enhanced Skills training/PGY 3 opportunities

Our program offers a number of training opportunities beyond the 2 years of
residency. We offer PGY-3 training in leading to a certificate of added
competence issued by the College of Family Physicians of Canada for Emergency
Medicine, Family Practice Anaesthesia, Care of the Elderly, Palliative
Medicine, Addictions Medicine, and Sports and Exercise Medicine.  We also
offer opportunities for PGY3 training in Maternity Care, Global Health,
Hospitalist, Women's Health and GP Oncology

* * *

# FAQ

  * If I apply to several streams within the Family Medicine Ottawa programs will I be expected to have more than one interview?  No, only one interview will be conducted and your overall application and interview score will be applied to the other streams.
  * If I apply to more than one program do I need to write a different Personal Letter?  No, we highly suggest to indicate your interest in more than one program within your letter and state the reasons.  If you are applying to the francophone program, you should write certain paragraphs in English and in French.
  * Can a letter of recommendation completed in French?  Yes, they may be in English or French.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27443?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27443