#  University of British Columbia - Internal Medicine - Vancouver Island  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 20, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 6

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Tristen Gilchrist  

Address University of British Columbia Internal Medicine \ Victoria Site  
Royal Jubilee Hospital, Coronation Annex  
1952 Bay Street  
Victoria, British Columbia, V8R 1J8  

Work

Websites of Interest [ Website: UBC Regional Specialty Training Program-
Medicine - Vancouver Island ](http://medicine.med.ubc.ca/education/victoria-
program/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: Site Director

Name: Dr. Kari-Jean McKenzie

Title: Assistant Program Director - Vancouver Island

  

General Information: For questions not covered on CaRMS site, email:

Name: Olivia Atwal

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: oatwal@uvic.ca

  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required and should be written by attending
physicians. Preferably at least one letter should be from an internist. No
reference letters will be accepted after **tba (date)**  12:00 noon ET. Please
do not submit more than three reference letters - any additional reference
letters will not be reviewed.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Your personal letter should be a maximum of 500 words. You should be specific
about why you want to do your Internal Medicine core program on Vancouver
Island instead of Vancouver or another place in Canada.  How would you fit
into a group of only 21 residents and what special skills or attributes do you
have that would make Vancouver Island the best place for you to learn
Medicine? There are no specific formatting criteria for the personal letter.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Custom Résumé / CV

We require an updated CV from each applicant.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Optional - will be reviewed

Self-identification questionnaire

 UBC is committed to fostering a collegial culture grounded in diversity and
inclusiveness. The university encourages applications from Indigenous persons,
persons with a disability, racialized persons, women, persons of a minority
sexual orientation and/or gender identity, and all candidates who would
contribute to the diversity of our community.



We are in the data collection phase currently.  Candidates are not required to
submit the CaRMS Self-identification questionnaire, but for those that do feel
comfortable doing so, the information received would only be used for program
selection improvement in future years. It will not be used for selection
purposes this year. Any self-identification questionnaires received will NOT
be reviewed as part of our file review process or used as an aid for file
reviewers for the 2025 match.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Two members of our Selection Committee independently review all applications
electronically via the CaRMS website. We then use a defined set of criteria to
create a short list of applicants to invite for an interview. All applicants
will receive notification via email indicating whether or not they are being
invited to interview. Please note that due to time constraints, residents will
not receive notification of their interview status until **January 10, 2025**.
This is standard across Canada for Internal Medicine.

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: We will conduct interviews over multiple
days within the national interview period. Times and dates will be sent in the
interview offer email.  
  

Notification/Invitation: January 10, 2025

Details regarding the interview process: Applicants will have two 15-minute
interviews, which will be conducted by a Faculty Member along with a Senior
Resident over Zoom. There will be an optional virtual live information
session.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We use information gathered from your academic record, personal letter and
reference letters to choose applicants to whom we will offer interviews.
Selected individuals are contacted via email on January 10, 2025 and invited
to interview. Applicants not invited to interview will also be advised via
email on January 10, 2025.

## Program goals

The Vancouver Island site for distributed Core Residency training in Internal
Medicine is committed to providing education and inspiration to residents that
prepares them for Royal College certification in core Internal Medicine and
any General or Subspecialty Fellowship for which they may desire to compete.
This training is intended to be equivalent, but not identical to that provided
by the home program, with flexibility to take advantage of the strengths of
each site.

## Selection process goals

Applicants who match to our Univeristy of Victoria Internal Medicine program
have good academic records, enthusiastic referees who often rank the applicant
among the top 5% or better of trainees they have seen. During the interviews
process, successful applicants present themselves to the interview team as
self-confident, able to think on their feet and adapt to the various demands
of an internal medicine residency training program, and appear emotionally
mature.

## File review process

Review team composition : Applicant files are reviewed through CaRMS file
review by two Faculty members. Several Faculty members volunteer to help. The
strength of each file is graded on a scale of 0 to 10 with additional comments
noted. Each file has two grades and comments which are then combined.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
We receive approximately 200 applications each year

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  
We interview about 1/3 of applicants

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We take a holistic view of the entire application.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We take a holistic view of the entire application.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We take a holistic view of the entire application.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  We take a holistic view of the entire application.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  We take a holistic view of the entire application.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  We take a holistic view of the entire application.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  We take a holistic view of the entire application.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We take a holistic view of the entire application.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We take a holistic view of the entire application.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We understand that undergraduate medical education usually includes a broad
range of experiences in all areas of medicine, surgery, psychiatry, etc. A
reasonable exposure to General and Sub-specialty Medicine is sufficient to
demonstrate an interest in Internal Medicine as a career. We do not require
applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We take a holistic view of the entire interview.   
Collegiality |  We take a holistic view of the entire interview.   
Communication skills |  We take a holistic view of the entire interview.   
Health advocacy |  We take a holistic view of the entire interview.   
Interest in the discipline |  We take a holistic view of the entire interview.   
Interest in the program |  We take a holistic view of the entire interview.   
Leadership skills |  We take a holistic view of the entire interview.   
Professionalism |  We take a holistic view of the entire interview.   
Scholarly activities |  We take a holistic view of the entire interview.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Vancouver Island Internal Medicine Residency Training Program is a
distributed site of the program based at UBC in Vancouver.  As such it shares
some features with Vancouver, but differs in other ways:

  * Our aim is to provide core training in Internal Medicine that is equivalent, but not identical, to that provided in the main program.
  * The majority of the training will be delivered on Vancouver Island, largely at the two teaching hospitals in Victoria (Victoria General Hospital and Royal Jubilee Hospital) but also at other sites on Vancouver Island such as Duncan, Nanaimo, Comox and Campbell River.  There are some mandatory blocks of experience at teaching hospitals in Vancouver (St Paul's Hospital and Vancouver General Hospital) in the first year.  
  * The Vancouver Island IM residents spend their protected academic time over the three years learning medicine in a different format than those in Vancouver. Just like all the new R1s in Vancouver, our R1s start off with two weeks of Boot Camp in Vancouver in July. Next is a series of lectures on all aspects of basic medicine that is videoconferenced every Wednesday afternoon from August to January. In February, our R1s join our R2s and R3s in the IM Academic Full Day series that runs on Thursdays ever two weeks. The academic program is partially resident-driven and covers all aspects of medicine according to a two year repeating schedule which also includes Ultrasound and Simulation teaching. Academic Full Days are protected from clinical responsibilities. 
  * Five days of conference leave every year.
  * Associate Membership to the America College of Physicians.
  * OSCEs 
  * Resident Wellness initiatives and events.
  * It is a policy that education is emphasized over service.
  * We do encourage our residents to join academic and social activities put on by the main program in Vancouver such as the Resident Retreat, Resident Research Day and other social events. In addition, we have developed some activities for local Residents only: the Summer Retreat, Spring Research afternoon and end of year Graduation celebration.

The Vancouver Island training site will offer some features in addition to
those at the Vancouver site:

  * There is a mandatory longitudinal outpatient medicine clinic (UMAC RJH) for all residents that gives them "real life" experience in outpatient Internal Medicine supervised by IM Staff. Each resident has their own patients to assess and follow in a monthly clinic date assigned to them (except during out of town blocks).
  * Most of the mandated sub-specialty blocks will be delivered on Vancouver Island, largely in Victoria at one of the two main hospitals.  Fewer trainees per block will allow for a much more personal learning experience with excellent access to the Attendings.     

The program has numerous other features which should attract applicants

  * Annual Summer Welcome Retreat
  * Spring Research Afternoon
  * Graduation Celebration in June

       

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Program Curriculum**

The Vancouver Island IM residency program provides three years of
comprehensive education and practice in Internal Medicine. The fourth year may
be completed in either a fourth core year with training sites individualized
for the resident, or outside of Vancouver Island in a sub-specialty fellowship
program.  Vancouver Island trained residents will be eligible for any
fellowship program the same as any other UBC trained resident.

**PGY-1**

**Fundamental Critical Care Skills Course (FCCS)**

        This is a mandatory course offered during the first few months of training.

**Procedures Training**

        This is a mandatory course offered during Boot Camp which will train residents in procedures and ultrasound use.

**Boot Camp  **

A 2 week curriculum is schedule at Vancouver General Hospital in block 1 along
with 2 weeks on CTU service at a Vancouver site.

**Rotation Duration Location / Notes**

  * Boot Camp - 2 weeks in Vancouver (VGH)
  * CTU - 18 weeks total (16 weeks in Victoria and 2 weeks in Vancouver)
  * CCU \- 8 weeks in Victoria
  * ICU - 4 weeks in Victoria
  * Sub-specialty electives - 20 weeks of local Victoria/Vancouver Island Content  

**PGY-2**

**Rotation Duration Location / Notes**

  * CTU - 16 weeks total as Senior Resident in Victoria 
  * CCU \- 8 weeks in Victoria 
  * Community - 4 weeks offered in a smaller center on Vancouver Island
  * Sub-Specialty electives - 24 weeks delivered mostly on Vancouver Island with some possible in other locations       

**PGY-3**

The curriculum adheres to the principle of graded responsibility.  Sub-
specialty experience is offered in all major disciplines of internal medicine.
The program has the flexibility to allow "free" elective experience to those
wishing to pursue training in other disciplines or in other locations.
Electives are available in a variety of community settings around the
province.

**Rotation Duration Location / Notes**

  * ICU - 8 weeks to be delivered in Victoria at Royal Jubilee Hospital and Victoria General Hospital
  * Ambulatory Medicine \- 4 weeks in Victoria. This ambulatory requirement will be supplemented by the longitudinal Medicine Clinic ongoing over three years.
  * CTU - 12 weeks total as Senior Resident in Victoria 
  * Sub-Specialty Electives \- 28 weeks delivered flexibly on Vancouver Island, in Vancouver or in other locations, as determined by the resident's need. 

**Research & Resident Research Events**

Research / Scholarly projects are a Royal College Requirement. All residents
should work towards presenting at the Annual Research Dinner in Victoria by
the end of the PGY-3 year.

The research program is organized such that residents receive education
pertaining to areas such as critical appraisal, research design and data
analysis. A mentor system is in place to facilitate interaction with faculty
in the design of a project. An Annual Resident Research Dinner is held in the
spring each year to showcase research being conducted by our Victoria site
residents. There is also an opportunity for our residents to attend and
present at the Vancouver site Annual Resident Research Day each year.
Residents with projects that have been accepted for presentation at major
conferences/events will receive additional funding to travel to those
conferences.

* * *

# Training Sites

The Vancouver Island training sites are:

  * Royal Jubilee Hospital (450 bed tertiary center with all major sub-specialities of medicine and surgery)
  * BC Cancer Agency is located on site at Royal Jubilee Hospital and will be providing medical oncology rotations
  * Victoria General Hospital (330 bed community hospital with some sub-specialty services in medicine, surgery, obstetrics and pediatrics)
  * The longitudinal Medicine Clinic at RJH (UMAC Clinic in the Royal Block)
  * Community sites in Duncan, Nanaimo, Campbell River and Comox

Some of the other Vancouver training sites are:

  * Vancouver General Hospital
  * St. Paul's Hospital
  * Royal Columbian Hospital

* * *

# FAQ

**Frequently Asked Questions  **

 1\. **WHEN WILL I BE NOTIFIED OF AN INVITATION TO INTERVIEW?**

  All applicants, whether successful or not, will receive notification on
**January 5, 2024**.

**  2\. WILL I KNOW WHO MY INTERVIEWERS ARE PRIOR TO THE INTERVIEW?**

 You will not have information with respect to your interviewers prior to the
day of your interview.

**  3\. IS THERE A LEAD RESIDENT OR RESIDENT THAT I CAN CONTACT WITH RESPECT
TO PROGRAM-RELATED QUESTIONS?**

The program offers opportunities for networking with residents during the
interview period.  Currently, with respect to any questions involving the
overall program you can contact: Kristen Stanbridge by email
**imadmin@uvic.ca**.  Kristen will direct your questions to an appropriate
person for response. The program offers live sessions where you will have the
chance to ask questions. You can view the event details on the AFMC calendar.

**4\. IF I AM NOT SHORTLISTED HOW CAN I APPEAL TO HAVE MY FILE  REVIEWED
AGAIN?**

Files are not re-reviewed. The Department of Medicine receives a large number
of excellent candidates and it is extremely difficult to develop a shortlist.
We do feel, however, that we have developed excellent criteria for development
of a shortlist. We receive many requests from applicants asking us to review
their files again and out of fairness to all applicants will decline to do
this except for very extenuating circumstances.  

**  5\. MY REFEREE HAS NOT SENT MY REFERENCE LETTER TO CARMS BY THE  DEADLINE
DATE. CAN I SEND YOU A HARD OR ELECTRONIC COPY?**

We do not take hard copies of any file materials. The selection process is
completely electronic. No paper copies are printed and our faculty work
directly from the electronic CaRMS site.

**6\. I WILL BE IN VANCOUVER OR VICTORIA FOR AN ELECTIVE PRIOR  TO THE
INTERVIEW DATES. IS IT POSSIBLE TO SET UP AN INTERVIEW AT THAT TIME?**

No interviews will be set up prior to the shortlisting process or the formal
interview dates. Our process is intended to be equitable to all applicants.

**  7\. IS THERE ANY SPECIFIC CRITERIA FOR THE PERSONAL LETTER?**

The personal letter should demonstrate an awareness of Internal Medicine, the
UBC program and its distributed site here on Vancouver Island (Victoria).

**8\. IF MY PERSONAL LETTER IS LONGER THAN THE REQUESTED ONE  PAGE WILL  IT
NEGATIVELY IMPACT MY APPLICATION?**

No - UBC, however, receives almost 200 applications each year and we are
attempting to keep the paperwork down to a minimum for the file reviewers.
Please keep your personal letter to one standard page, single spaced.  The
Vancouver Island (Victoria) program receives a large number of applications
and we appreciate your skills in being brief.

**9\. WILL THE INTERVIEWERS HAVE ACCESS TO MY FILE ON THE INTERVIEW DAY?**

No - the files will already have been reviewed and scored. The interview
scoring is based solely on the interview.

**10\. I HAVE HEARD A RUMOUR THAT UBC RANKS THEIR OWN TRAINEES FIRST. IS THIS
CORRECT?**

 No - UBC has never had a policy of ranking their students first. We believe
in ranking the best applicants we can regardless of where they trained.

**11\. IS IT EASY TO FIND RESEARCH MENTORS AND OPPORTUNITIES?**

Our faculty will assists residents in connecting with faculty with related
research interests.

 **12\. IF I HAVE FAMILY COMMITMENTS WILL I STILL BE REQUIRED TO DO
ROTATIONS OUTSIDE OF VICTORIA? **

Yes, all residents will be expected to do mandatory and mandated rotations in
Vancouver and a community block on Vancouver Island outside of Victoria.

**13\. WHAT IS THE CURRENT ACCREDITATION STATUS OF YOUR  PROGRAM.**

The UBC Postgraduate Program (which includes the Vancouver Island site) is
fully accredited.

**14\. HOW MUCH OUT OF PROVINCE ELECTIVE TIME IS ALLOWED?**

Three months during the core three years of training.  This is negotiable for
special requests.

**15\. HOW MUCH RESEARCH TIME IS ALLOWED?**

Three months during the core three years of training.

**16\. HOW MANY RESIDENTS CURRENTLY IN THE PROGRAM?**

The core program in Vancouver has 170 residents.  The Vancouver Island
(Victoria) Program currently has 18 core residents.

**17\. ARE FELLOWSHIP POSITIONS GUARANTEED?**

Residents are guaranteed four years of funding. Fellowship positions are
competitive and residents are not guaranteed of a position at UBC.

            

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27074?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27074