#  University of Alberta - Obstetrics and Gynecology - Edmonton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 7

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Christa Aubrey  

Address Obstetrics & Gynecology  
Room 5S131 Lois Hole Hosp., Robbins Pavillion RAH  
10240 Kingsway Avenue  
Edmonton, Alberta, T5H 3V9  

Work  780 735 5509

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Obstetrics & Gynecology
](https://www.ualberta.ca/obstetrics-gynecology/education-programs/obgyn-
residency-training-program/index.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: The PAs are the first line of contact. Anyone needing to
connect with Dr. Aubrey should call them first.

Name: Lalitha Srinivasan

Title: Program Administrator

Email: obgynpme@ualberta.ca

Phone: 780 735 5509

780 735 4911

  

* * *

# Important Information

Our program underwent a Royal College survey visit in October 2020. The
recommendation to the specialty committee was for full accreditation with the
next review in 2025 (when the next Royal College review is scheduled for the
University of Alberta).



**Indigenous Admissions**

The University of Alberta Faculty of Medicine & Dentistry and the Department
of Obstetrics & Gynaecology appreciate the role of academic institutions in
redressing the historic and ongoing impacts of colonialism and advancing the
process of reconciliation.

We recognize that the health status of Indigenous peoples is influenced by a
number of social and political factors including:

  * The underrepresentation of Indigenous physicians;
  * The legacy of Residential Schools and other government policies;
  * The devaluing of Indigenous knowledge and healing practices.

National calls for change have been made by the Truth and Reconciliation
Commission, The Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples, and the Inquiry on
Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women. We consider it our responsibility to
respond to these calls for change and help close the gap in the
underrepresentation of Indigenous people in Obstetrics & Gynaecology and in
medicine more broadly.

In this regard, we have implemented an adapted parallel CaRMS application and
review process which will allow for the purposeful identification,
prioritization, and selection of Indigenous physicians.

If you identify as an Indigenous person and choose to apply through this
parallel process, please include the following documents in the additional
documents section:

  * Confirmation of Indigenous ancestry
    * A copy of the front and back of your First Nation, Metis or Inuit card
    * A letter from your band or settlement indicating your registration number and status
  * Personal letter: Please indicate your connection with an Indigenous community and describe how you see yourself working with an Indigenous community/ Indigenous peoples in the future (Max 500 words)
  * Letter of reference from an Indigenous community member (optional)

These documents should be submitted in addition to the standard application
documents. We recognize that this adds extra work for Indigenous applicants.
At present, we feel that this dual process is necessary to ensure that
Indigenous applicants have access to both admission streams.

As this is a new application process, we are very receptive to feedback.
Please email obgynpme@ualberta.ca with any questions or concerns and use the
subject heading Indigenous Admissions.

Our program now requires a current CASPer exam score from each applicant.

CASPER Requirement

All applicants to our residency program at the University of Alberta are
required to complete the CASPER (Computer-Based Assessment for Sampling
Personal Characteristics) test, to assist with our selection process.
Successful completion of CASPER is mandatory in order to maintain admission
eligibility. CASPER is an open-response, situational judgment test that
evaluates aspects of applicants’ social intelligence and professionalism such
as ethics, empathy, problem-solving and collaboration. For more information on
the test, go to
[https://takealtus.com/casper/.](https://takealtus.com/casper/) CASPER scores
are only valid for a single admissions cycle and for the test type for which
you have taken the test. For example, if an applicant took the Canadian Post
Graduate Medical Education test for the CaRMS Round 1 match, the same CASPER
score will be considered for the Round 2 match.

Your CASPER assessment result is sent directly to our program/CaRMS from
Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights permission to
share your results with CaRMS.

* * *

# Return of Service

There are no return of service requirements at the University of Alberta.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Please see the Alberta [provincial
criteria.](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/)

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) are required to provide proof of
English language proficiency as determined by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) who completed their medical education in
Quebec or at the University of Ottawa (French Stream) are required to provide
proof of English language proficiency as determined by the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

CMGs who completed their medical education at the University of Ottawa must
indicate on their application which stream they completed (either French or
English).

_For more information on the CPSA English language requirements, please visit
the  [CPSA website](https://cpsa.ca/physicians/registration/english-language-
proficiency/)._

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Reference letters should be utilized from clinicians or senior residents (PGY4
or 5) that the applicant has worked with.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

All applicants are required to submit a personal letter detailing their
reasons for a career choice in obstetrics and gynecology. Elective experience
in the specialty should be described, as well as any experience in basic
science or clinical research. Interests outside of medicine should be
included. Please limit this letter to 500 words.

Optional - will be reviewed

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

  

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held on January 20, 21,
22, 2025 for Canadian Medical Graduates  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Applications will be reviewed by our
committee members, and invitations for interviews  emailed to selected
candidates.  
  
Interviews will be held virtually.  The format for the interviews is 6 ten
minute stations.  The program director or the Assistant Program Director will
meet each candidate in one of the stations.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

  * Acceptable academic record with proficiency in obstetrics and gynecology
  * Reference letters should be utilized from clinicians or senior residents (PGY4 or 5) that the applicant has worked with. 
  * A Personal letter detailing the candidate's interest in obstetrics and gynecology. Limit of 500 words.
  * Awareness of women's health care issues.
  * High level of commitment to teamwork and professionalism.
  * Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.
  * Interests outside of medicine are highly valued.

## Program goals

Our overall goal is to train highly competent, responsible, and ethical
physicians for the practice of general Obstetrics and Gynaecology. The
commitment of our Department to resident education is reflected through
activities including a protected weekly Academic Half Day, grand rounds and
subspecialty rounds , a monthly Journal Club, surgical skills labs and
simulation. We set a  biannual practice OSCE and require the National SOGC
practice exam. The Department comprises a large complement of faculty members
in all 4 subspecialties including Maternal-Fetal Medicine, Urogynecology,
Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility and Gynecologic Oncology to
maximize resident exposure to all fields.

The program is organized to provide early clinical and operative exposure to
junior residents, allowing more senior residents to consolidate their skills
across the five years of training, and also affording senior residents the
opportunity to teach, supervise and mentor the junior residents. Upon
completion of training, a resident is expected to be a competent specialist in
the field of Obstetrics and Gynecology. The residents must acquire a working
knowledge of the theoretical basis of the specialty, including its foundations
in the basic medical sciences and research. An online Research course is
expected in their first year of training (as part of the surgical foundations
program). Involvement in and completion of one scholarly research project is
expected over the 5 year of residency with protected research time and
opportunities for research electives if desired.

Residents must demonstrate the requisite knowledge, skills, and attitudes for
effective, high quality and safe patient-centered care and service to a
diverse population of patients from northern and central Alberta. In all
aspects of specialist practice, the graduate must be able to address issues of
gender, sexual orientation, age, culture, ethnicity and ethics in a
professional manner.



## Selection process goals

The University of Alberta Obstetrics & Gynaecology Residency Program
Applicants are selected based on the following characteristics (in no
particular order):

  * Demonstrated interest in, and knowledge of, the specialty and the University of Alberta training program
  * Works well in a team-based environment
  * Flexible and adaptable to change
  * Scholarly interests (research, education etc)
  * Advocate for women's health
  * Professionalism
  * Academic potential
  * Ability to handle stress
  * Leadership activities & potential

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team is composed of teaching faculty and
residents, led by our CaRMS lead, Dr. Sara Ilnitsky.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
NA

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  
We have 12 interview slots for AIMGs

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Research, publications, electives, employment history.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Our program does not favour residents who do electives at our site or numerous electives in our specialty. We consider and value applicants with broad clinical experiences.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Not applicable   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Medical and non-medical volunteering and mentoring, interest outside of medicine   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Holding office in a student government, club, or organization.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Personal and academic attributes   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interested in discipline, program location and desire to serve patients.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  3 references required, Positive interaction with colleagues and patients. Interest in discipline.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  List of projects and publications, Interest in participating in future research projects.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Yes, promotion of high-quality patient care through working in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Yes, behavior, attitude, and ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Yes, ability to speak and write in English   
Health advocacy |  Yes, demonstrated interest in health advocacy   
Interest in the discipline |  Yes, demonstrated interest and ability in the specialty; evidence for compassion & resilience   
Interest in the program |  Yes, demonstrated interest in program, setting, and serving Albertans.   
Leadership skills |  Yes, ability to initiate programs, lead or organizations or groups, and make an impact   
Professionalism |  Yes, ability to interact in person and online in a professional manner.   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The residency program in Obstetrics and Gynecology at the University of
Alberta takes pride in training generalist OBGYNs who are entirely comfortable
with entering practice when they finish their training.  The surgical training
is strong, with over 100 faculty contributing to training.  We have two large
volume obstetrical services (Lois Hole Hospital for Women, based at the Royal
Alexandra Hospital, and the Grey Nuns Hospital) and 2 additional smaller
volume community hospitals (Misericordia and Sturgeon). We also have
opportunities for rural/community electives in Red Deer, Grande Prairie, and
Yellowknife. Many of our trainees opt for subspecialty training (Gynecologic
Oncology, REI, MFM and Urogyne). Others opt for fellowships in other topics
(ie: pediatric gynecology, MIS) but continue in a generalist practice.

There is currently one fellowship training program in Edmonton (urogyn).
There are pros and cons on the resident experience with Fellows. We feel that
having residents get more surgical experience when there are fewer fellows,
and that has been a strength of our program.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Obstetrics and Gynecology at the University of Alberta is a 5 year program.

**PGY-1**

  * All PGY-1 residents participate in the Surgical Foundations Program at the University of Alberta. All surgical specialties participate in this core year. There is a protected academic half-day each week  covering core surgical topics on Thursday mornings.
  * Residents are expected to complete Surgical Foundations EPAs and be promoted by the end of the year, while they are also working on Obstetrics and Gynecology EPAs.
  * 2 block transition to discipline rotation (TTD): This is an introduction to obgyn in Edmonton.  For the last several years we have had a senior resident do a medical education elective during the second block.  Their goal is to make sure no one is falling behind with EPA requests, setting everyone up for success.  The last two years all of our R1s have been promoted to Foundations of Discipline in both Obgyn and Surgical Foundations at the first Competency committee meeting.
  * Additional rotations in PGY-1:
    * 1 block Emergency Medicine
    * 1 block of combined ultrasound, night float call, research
    * 1 block NICU/OB Anaesthesia
    * 3 blocks General Obstetrics & Gynecology
    * 2 blocks General Surgery
    * 2 blocks Internal Medicine
    * 1 block vacation
  * We have a standard template for these rotations, and we let the PGY1 decide amongst themselves for their preferred track (with the Program Director having final say.)

**PGY-2**

  * The PGY-2 year is a "core" year general obstetrics and gynecology.
  * Residents have spent 7 blocks at the Lois Hole Hospital on Royal Alexandra Hospital site working on obstetrical and gynecological services.
  * 2 blocks are spent in a community hospital (Grey Nuns)
  * 1 block at another community hospital (Misericordia)
  * 2 blocks in ICU
  * 1 block in the Women's Health Options Clinic combined with research time. 
    * The Women's Health Options is a pregnancy termination clinic, and it is possible to opt out of the surgical procedure and still get experience with ultrasound and contraceptive counselling. 
  * By the end of the year, the residents. will be comfortable with high risk Obstetric care, the performance of cesarean sections and minor laparoscopic surgeries.

**PGY-3**

**The program revised its curriculum for the 2020/2021 year. The change was
prompted by CBME and the fact that a specific number of blocks in the
subspecialties  is no longer required by the Royal College. **

  * MFM 2: blocks
  * OB Medicine: 1 block
  * REI or Urogyne :2 blocks  (one of these will likely be done in R4)
  * Gyne Oncology: 2 blocks (an additional block in R4)
  * General Gynecology surgery: 2 blocks, either both at the Grey Nuns Hospital, or split 1 block at the Grey Nuns and 1 at the Misericordia
  * Electives (some of which require being on the call schedule)

**PGY-4**

  * Gyne Oncology: 1 block (a second is available for those who want it, and is considered an elective)
  * REI or Urogynecology: 2 blocks (whichever was not done as an R3)
  * Lead Resident (4 or 5 blocks): Due to the Royal College Written exam moving to September for the PGY 5s, our PGY4s will be assigned lead rotations for Blocks 1 and 2.
  * Senior OBGYN surgical rotation at a community hospital: 2 blocks  This may be done in 5th year for some residents.
  * Electives: varies, but total the same for all residents by the end of 5th year. Approximately 5 elective blocks are associated with call expectations.
  * If a resident does not complete all expected EPAs from the subspecialties in third year, they have a chance to revisit that subspecialty (for as little as 2 weeks).  This is considered elective time.

**PGY-5**

  * As an R5 the resident is expected to function like a junior faculty, under supervision.
  * CBD residents will have their written Royal College Exams in the fall of their 5th year.  The OSCE exam is in the spring.
  * We give  'relaxed ' rotations prior to the Royal College exams. We call these Ambulatory blocks. Two blocks before the Written exam and one before the OSCE. There are no (or few) call expectations while on an ambulatory block.  These rotations can be sharing a role (ie surgery at a community site that would normally be just one resident) or an office elective.
  * Lead resident (2 or more blocks)
  * Community Senior resident (2 or more blocks)
  * Ambulatory (3 blocks): prior to exams
  * Electives (3 or more blocks) This can include Transition to Practice electives.
  * We are currently considering how to create a true transition to practice process, which could have its own set of Academic half day presentations.

**Academic half-day (AHD)**

All R 2,3,4 and 5 residents have protected Wednesday afternoons (1300-1700)
where they are excused from clinical work. The first year residents attend the
Surgical Foundations half days Thursday mornings (0900-1200). All sessions are
faculty supervised and are mostly faculty presented.  R2s present  ( with a
faculty preceptor) in the second half of their R2 year.

These include formal training in:

  * Anatomy- (with the department of anatomy)
  * Simulation: Obstetrical Simulation (Victoria), vaginal hysterectomy(Miya), virtual laparoscopy, OASIS (obstetrical Anal sphincter injury repair sim). If we are noting a challenge in getting EPAs in certain areas we may create simulations
  * Our medical expert content is repeated every 2 years.
  * Canmeds  roles (ie Advocate and leader etc) are also a component of our AHD.
  * Our AHD is now a combination of virtual and in person events.  Most didactic sessions are offered in both formats.

**Journal Club**

  * Alternating months, from September to June, Journal Clubs focus on an evidence-based review of the literature. These are done in-person, either in faculty homes or restaurants. Two residents each present a paper.

**Rounds**

  * Weekly academic rounds are hospital-based. Rounds are all Zoom based, with a hybrid model being developed for Grand rounds and subspecialty rounds.
  * Grand Rounds are Friday mornings from September to June yearly.
  * Sub-specialty rounds occur on Tuesday morning, alternating with  Morbidity and Mortality rounds, and protected wellness time/wellness topics.
  * Urogynecology Rounds are Thursdays noon hour for those on their urogynecology rotations
  * Gynecologic oncology tumor board is Thursday am  730-830

**Exams**

  * Twice-yearly OSCE exams and once yearly multiple choice exams (mimicking the Royal College exams) are held. The MCQ exam is facilitated by the SOGC and all programs contribute to the questions. In the final year lead residents have "practice oral" exams one to two times per week (they create their own schedule by contacting faculty).

**Evaluations**

  * Twice yearly (or more often, if needed), individual meetings occur with the program director or assistant program director, for resident feedback. The residents are evaluated during each rotation with EPAs and after each rotation with ITERs. Resident progress is evaluated by their Academic Advisor and the Competency Committee at least three times per year. Residents are also expected to evaluate the rotations and the faculty. Periodically the Program Director has Townhall meetings with the residents.

**Research**

  * During the 5 year residency, residents are required to design and present at the minimum one scholarly project (which can be basic science, clinical, CQI or medical education) . There is also a research component for Surgical Foundations in the first year.  We have two research days each year (one is for our basic science affiliation with the department of pediatrics)
  * nterested residents may apply to the CIP (Clinical Investigator Program) at the University Alberta and take 2 years (funded) for research to complete a Masters. Several residents have completed this program in the last 5 years.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Resources**

The residency program is based at the Lois Hole Hospital for Women, at the
Royal Alexandra Hospital.  This is the tertiary referral center for Northern
Alberta, parts of northern British Columbia and parts of the NWT and Nunavut.
The University of Alberta Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology is based
here. (The majority of academic medical departments are based at the
University of Alberta Hospital.) Three community hospitals have OBGYN
residents continuously, the Grey Nuns, Misericordia and Sturgeon Hospital.
These are full-service hospitals with busy Obstetrical and Gynecologic Surgery
services. The Gynecologic Oncologists operate at the Lois Hole Hospital and
see outpatients at the Cross-Cancer Institute.

We have exceptional access to multiple types of simulation :
Obstetric/laparoscopic/surgical.



* * *

# Additional Information

**Teaching:  **

Residents are involved with teaching of their junior colleagues and medical
students, with opportunities to be small group leaders in DL learning,
examiners in OSCEs, etc.  A medical education selective to work on a project
is an option that many residents took during COVID. Many of our residents gave
presentations and then created OSCE stations on the topic, with the goal of
achieving EPAs that are difficult to obtain. For the last several years we
have had a resident do a medical education elective in block 2, to work with
the new residents in the program, getting them comfortable with our city and
CBD.

**Resident Retreat:**

An annual resident retreat is organized each year (other than during COVID).
All residents are excused from clinical duties and allowed to attend. The
retreat addresses core competencies such as communication, education, and
professionalism (CANMEDS), and advocacy.

**Communications:**

Regular communications occur by e-mail with the program director and assistant
program director. In addition, a resident specific web-site is regularly
updated. Web-site: Obstetrics & Gynecology
(http://www.obgyn.med.ualberta.ca/).

**Why Our Program?**

  * Relaxed faculty and friendly environment
  * Culture amongst the residents that is supportive, not competitive.
  * Strong core surgical program, with confident and competent graduating residents.  We have only one Fellow (UROGYN) which creates space for the residents to be first assistant at the majority of the cases.
  * Abundant  elective time to explore future career options.

**Why Edmonton?**

  * Beautiful city with one of the continent's largest river valley park system for skiing, running, walking  and cycling.
  * Reasonable cost of living.
  * Festivals all summer.
  * Sun sets at 11 pm in the summer.
  * Mountains accessible on weekends.

CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)

The University of Alberta recognizes the importance of diversity, equity,
inclusivity, decolonization, and indigenization (EDIDI) and is committed to
the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry’s policy on anti-racism.

Further, the University is committed to implementing the Truth and
Reconciliation Commission calls to action that are relevant to education and
medicine.The pursuit of diversity and equitable opportunities is a core value
that guides our selection practices.

The University encourages applications from underrepresented groups, including
Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women,
persons of a minority gender identity or sexual orientation, and individuals
who would contribute to the diversity of the medical community. The CaRMS
Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) is an optional form that candidates
can fill out.

Customizable: Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism
in residency selection, but is currently not using the CSIQ as part of our
application process. We are using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias
and equitable opportunities for all applicants.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26885?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26885