#  Queen’s University - Neurology - Kingston  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on February 19, 2025

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Stuart Reid  

Address Medicine  
Kingston General Hospital  
Connell 7, 76 Stuart St.  
Kingston, ON K7L 2V7, Ontario, K7L 2V7  

Work  (613) 549-6666 x 4320

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Neurology Residency Training Program
](http://deptmed.queensu.ca/divisions/neurology)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Michelle Wolfreys

Title: Program Assistant

Email: neuroprog@queensu.ca

Phone: 613-549-6666 x 4320

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Electives**

We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted candidates’ opportunities
to arrange and complete electives and would like to reassure you that a lack
of elective activity this year will not negatively impact your application to
our program.

COVID-19 vaccination requirements:

Please refer to the 'Restrictions' section of the [Ontario eligibility
criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/) for messaging regarding COVID-19 vaccination requirements.

**EDIIA Institutional Statement**

The goal of resident selection is to identify trainees likely to succeed both
in training and, once out in practice, in meeting the health care needs of
patients and Canadian society.  We know that having a physician workforce that
reflects the demographics of the patients that they serve improves health care
outcomes.  There are many populations within Canada under-represented in
medicine (UIM) with a paucity of health care practitioners who are Black,
Indigenous, Persons of Colour, 2SLGBTQ+, from lower socioeconomic backgrounds
and/or with disabilities, and other under-represented in medicine (UIM)
groups. Diversity within training programs has also been shown to improve
training environments.  Queen’s University PGME is strongly committed to
diversity and inclusion within its community for these reasons as well as
being part of the solution to address historic and contemporary inequities.



**Equity and diversity**

We welcome diversity among our trainees and seek to foster an environment that
is welcoming to all, regardless of gender identity, race, religion, or sexual
orientation.

We are committed to advancing equitable and inclusive practices.  Please refer
to the [PGME website](https://meds.queensu.ca/academics/postgraduate/faculty-
staff/applicant-selection) for additional information / resources including
[QHS EDIIA Initiatives](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi) and [EDIIA
statements](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi/accessibility-
statements) (Indigenous Land Acknowledgement, Anti-Discrimination Statement,
Inclusion Statement, and Statement on Social Accountability)

**Gaps in Training, Remediation, or Professionalism issues**

Please address any gaps in training, remediation, or professionalism issues in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count.

* * *

# Return of Service

If you have a ROS agreement in another province please ensure you aware of the
commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Please refer to Supporting Documents for specifics on the required
documentation. Documents submitted after the deadline will not be considered.

Key requirements for applications:

  * Completed CaRMS Application
  * Personal Statement
  * Personal CV
  * 3 Letters of Reference
  * Medical School Transcript
  * Medical School Progress Report (MSPR)
  * Proof of Medical Diploma (MD)
  * Others items relevant later in the process (e.g., photo, proof of citizenship/residence)

Items we neither require nor want:

  * CTU assessments
  * PDFs of publications
  * PDFs of certificates/diplomas/degrees

Please note that due to the volume of applications our program receives we are
not able to provide individual feedback to applicants who are not successful
in the match.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

A personal letter is required. Word count should not exceed 500 words.
Candidates should describe experiences, achievements, and challenges that have
been personally defining and how these have led them to Neurology and Queen’s.
It is important to describe why Queen’s is an excellent fit for your career
goals.

Custom Résumé / CV

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Documents that are not in English must be accompanied by a notarized
translation. Students applying in the last year of medical school will need to
submit their most recent marks/transcripts, and will need to provide proof of
their MD to CPSO prior to the start of residency training.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 23, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Virtual interviews will take place on
Thursday January 23, we will have a some interview slots available on Friday
January 24 for any conflicts. Our residents will be holding a Q&A + Social
session on Wednesday January 22.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Virtual interviews will be conducted
by both a faculty members and senior residents.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Academic strength as demonstrated by medical school record and undergraduate
record.

Personal qualities of interpersonal skills, facility with communication and
integrity.

Interest in and commitment to neurology as a career.

Background in neurosciences or other disciplines that can serve to enhance a
career in neurology.

CV and personal letter must be included.

## Program goals

Our residents will demonstrate exceptional clinical, research, and
interpersonal skills, knowledge, and attitudes, always striving for academic
excellence while fostering a collaborative environment. They will be active
members of our local and academic communities, engaging in volunteer work and
extracurricular activities. Our program believes in positive work/life balance
and encourages participation in activities outside of medicine.



## Selection process goals

Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability to interact appropriately
with patients and colleagues alike.

Identify applicants interested in Neurology, and those who will develop into
exceptional Neurologist.  

Identify applicants who have demonstrated attributes highlighted in the
CanMEDS 2015 roles.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability and enthusiasm to learn and
are able to adapt to various demands of the Neurology resident training
program.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team is composed of the program director,
chief resident, program administrators and designated residents and faculty
members.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
The number has grown in recent years, and is expected to continue to grow.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  
There maybe some exceptions

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Diversity of training, time management, team skills   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Diversity of training, academic excellence   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Time management, relevance to clinic medicine, benefit to community   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Time management, relevance to clinic medicine, benefit to community   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic excellent, time management, team skills   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Reflection, experience   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Academic Excellence, team skills, relevance to clinical medicine   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Time management, academic experience   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic excellence   
Other file component(s) |  Publications are not required but viewed as supplemental. Please do NOT submit publications as additional documents. If you have them, list them on your CV and in the appropriate section of the CaRMS application.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: While electives give us the opportunity to personally
meet candidates, we realize that not all students are able to organize
electives. As a result, having not completed an elective should not deter
applicants from applying.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Work effectively in a team environment to ensure high-quality patient care   
Collegiality |  Demonstrate a behaviour and attitude that is respectful, courteous and inclusive to colleagues in medicine and all areas of allied health.   
Communication skills |  Communicate effectively and respectfully in an equitable and non-biased manner to all individuals. Ability to speak and write English fluently is necessary, and multilingual fluency is greatly appreciated.   
Health advocacy |  Provide neurological care equally to all patients, ensuring equal access to care to our community as a whole. Engage in health advocacy and promote health literacy.   
Interest in the discipline |  Passion for neurology represented by clinical rotations, research, published works (fiction or non-fiction), through letters of recommendation, etc...   
Interest in the program |  Although interest in Queen's University, Kingston and the surrounding areas can be denoted by electives, electives are not essential.   
Leadership skills |  Involvement in the improvement of medical care (or other pursuits) through innovation, team development, empathy, coaching, and facilitating change.   
Professionalism |  Interacting with health care staff and patients with conscientiousness and integrity.   
Scholarly activities |  Advancing health care knowledge through research, self-directed learning, quality improvement, the humanities or other areas of personal interest, often demonstrated through publication or presentation.   
Other interview component(s) |  Pursuits and interests outside the field of medicine   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Program highlights



Welcome to the neurology residency program at Queen's University! We have a
well-established academic program with a long track record of successful
graduates that have gone on to academic and non-academic careers. We are an
academic referral center based on beautiful Lake Ontario with a catchment
population of approximately 600 000 people in South Eastern Ontario.  Our
program is designed to give residents a combination didactic teaching and
hands-on clinical exposure. Some of the highlights of our program include:



  1. Clinical exposure: A unique strength of the neurology residency program at Queen’s is the supportive experiential approach to learning that our residents receive. Our teaching philosophy is that residents should be taught the basic principles and tools required to be a neurologists and then be given the opportunity to apply the knowledge and skills in an independent manner. As a regional referral center our residents see a broad range of neurological disease. Our residents learn firsthand to diagnose, assess, and manage neurological disease by doing it. This permits the development of confidence in clinical skills and allows learning in a much more salient and practical way. Fundamental to this approach is a strong academic curriculum based on commitment from our faculty to teach the core skills and knowledge base.



  1. Competence based education. The division of neurology has been proactive in developing a competency based curriculum with strong support from our dean. We have developed a regular schedule of short answer questions (SAQ) and OSCEs to challenge our residents. In addition the neurology residency program at Queens has instituted rigorous evaluation methods to facilitate our assessment process including
     1. Neurology specific clinical encounter rubric
     2. Multisource feedback form
     3. Patient feedback form
     4. Bedside education feedback form
     5. Pre & Post-test examinations: This approach has been piloted in both EEG and EMG rotations. When residents start this block they are given a multiple choice examination based on the core principles of the subspecialty in addition to rotation specific objectives. At the end their block, they are given a similar quiz and are required to attain a score of 70% to pass.



  1. Clinical teaching.
     1. In-patient medicine:  The neurology service at Queens offers two streams of exposure to in-patient medicine including 1.) a stroke stream and 2.) a general neurology stream to better focus your learning and increase the student to staff ratio.
     2. Ambulatory medicine: residents are exposed to a full range of ambulatory clinics including:

  1. _Longitudinal clinics_ : residents are assigned to a single mentor for 12 months in a general neurology clinic where they will follow their own patients.
  2. _Subspecialty clinics_ : neurology at queens offers a full range of subspecialty clinics including: stroke, epilepsy, neuromuscular/EMG, MS, headache/BOTOX etc..

  1. Faculty led weekly rounds. In addition to a dedicated academic half day, residents have an abundance of educational opportunities.
     1. Neurophysiology rounds: case based presentations emphasizing clinical approach including history, clinical examination techniques and interpretation of electrodiagnostic tests. Topics alternate between:

  1. _Neuromuscular/EMG &NCS_
  2. Epilepsy/EEG

     1. Stroke rounds: faculty lead review of the imaging features and management strategies of strokes seen by the service over the previous week.
     2. Neuropathology rounds: a presentation of gross neuropathological material (including gross specimens, histology, immunohistochemistry) and review of relevant medical literature.



  1. Mentorship. The small resident-to-faculty ratio permits the development of meaningful academic relationships and strong communication between residents and faculty. Having graduated from the program myself, I can attest to the fact that the close mentoring I received directly influenced my career path, my fellowship choices and my practice.  



  1. Resident engagement: The residents are directly engaged in improving the neurology program
     1. The residents meet as a group each biannually to decide on what topics in they feel they need covered and this is brought to the RTC
     2. The senior residents have developed weekly physical examination teaching sessions for junior residents on Fridays at noon
     3. The residents have independently developed a monthly journal club.



  1. Strong support from allied specialties and basic scientists:
     1. **_Neuropathology_** : Our residents get excellent exposure to neuropathology through weekly brain cutting rounds and monthly neuropathology sessions that is part of their academic half day. This tradition has long been strength of Queens University and is being diligently continued by Dr. J. Rossiter.
     2. **_Neurosurgery :_** This program has hired several additional faculty members, which has greatly increased our resident’s exposure and amount of teaching. Several of the neurosurgeons also have active basic science research programs that resident’s benefit from as well.
     3. **_Center for Neuroscience_** :  a healthy relationship exists between clinical and basic neuroscience at Queens. This relationship gives residents to explore basic science in addition to clinical interests and is a great source of collaboration and teaching.
     4. **_Neuroradiology :_** Queens has three talented neuro-radiologists that participate formally in our academic curriculum and had regular interaction with our residents.
     5. **Physiatry : **there is a very close relationship between the divisions of neurology and physical medicine & rehabilitation that enhances our residents learning. Residents rotate through our rehabilitation hospital and participate in regular EMG and multi-disciplinary clinics.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Division of Neurology at Queen's University is proud to offer a five-year
postgraduate residency program fully accredited by the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.  Our residents have exposure to a good mix
of neurological cases as our unit draws the most complex and challenging
neurologic cases from the region, and this mixture of common and unusual
patient presentations prepares residents well for clinical practice.  
  
Our program also offers good education to service ratio. We don’t compromise
the educational experience of our trainees by allowing service demands to
influence the program. The service requirements are met by dedicated attending
staff in order to avoid compromising the training program by unreasonable
workloads.  
  
We are especially proud of our congenial work environment. There is a
collegial relationship with the neurology attending staff as well as with the
neurosurgeons, neuropathologists, physiatrists and neuroradiologists. This is
enhanced by the small size of the training program and may not be found at
other larger centres.  
  
Our residents have met with great success after their training.  They do
exceptionally well on their Royal College examinations and have gone on to
academic appointments in Canada and major U.S. centres as well as community
practice.



**Academic Curriculum**

We have dedicated academic half-days that occur weekly throughout the year,
ensuring that residents are covering the entire curriculum in a comprehensive
manner.  Topics include Neurosciences Case Rounds, Clinical Rounds, a seminar
series, Journal Club, and a Clinical Examination Series.  Medicine Sign-In
Rounds, Stroke Rounds, Neuropathology Rounds, and Medical Mortality /
Morbidity Rounds occur weekly.

All PGY-1 Neurology residents are invited to attend the Queen’s Conference on
Academic Residency Education (QCARE), the Teaching Improvement Project System
(TIPS), the Critical Events Simulation Course, and the Senior Resident
Leadership Course offered through the Kingston Resuscitation Institute.

**Description of Clinical Training Experiences (typical)**

**Transition to Discipline and Foundations of Discipline stages  **(PGY-1
year)

\- Cardiology – 2 blocks

- Emergency Med – 2 blocks 

\- Infectious Disease- 1 block  

\- GIM – 3 blocks

\- Rheumatology – 1 block  

\- Neurology – 3 blocks

\- Palliative care – 1 block  

**Core of Discipline**  (PGY-2 year)

\- IUC – 2 blocks

\- Geri Psych

\- Neruo Optho

\- Neuro Sx

\- Neruoradiology  

**Core of Discipline Con't**  (PGY 3-5 year) (this number indicates the number
of blocks between all 3 years)

\- Neurology Inpatient Stroke Service 5-10 blocks

\- General Neurology 7-12 blocks

\- EEG- Epilepsy – 3 blocks

\- EMG- Neuromuscular 3 blocks  

\- Neuropathology -3-4 blocks

\- Neuropediatrics 3-6 blocks

\- Research 3-6 blocks  

\- Elective 3 blocks  



* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

Kingston General Hospital

Hotel Dieu Hospital

Providence Care Hospital

Hospital for Sick Children - Toronto



Residents have a dedicated space in the Neurology library which provides them
with access to a computer, printer and digital scanner. Several teaching files
and CD's have been and continue to be downloaded onto this computer for use by
neurology residents. Moreover, residents have access to over 100 scientific
e-journals through this computer.

We strongly encourage residents to obtain additional training in areas of
their interest both in Ontario and other Canadian University Hospitals.
International electives can be provided upon special agreements with these
hospitals. Funding during these electives is provided by Queen's University.

The ratio of residents to faculty is 11 residents to 9.5 full time neurology
attending staff. In addition, 3 adjunct neurology professors offer assistance
in teaching.

While on the inpatient hospital service, residents can expect to be
responsible for approximately 5 patients; however, this number can vary
depending on the size of the service and the number of residents rotating in
neurology at a given time.

A mandatory 3 month rotation in neuropediatrics is required. Funding for
travel and housing is provided by Queen's University.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26586?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26586