#  University of Manitoba - Vascular Surgery - Winnipeg

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Joshua Koulack  

Address Vascular Surgery  
GF5 - 820 Sherbrook Street  
Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3A 1R5  

Work  204-787-8670

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Vascular Surgery
](https://umanitoba.ca/medicine/department-surgery/vascular-surgery-residency)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: TBD

Title: Program administrator

Email: vascular.surg@umanitoba.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

The **Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation**  for all residents, **which
is MANDATORY** , will be held on Thursday**, June 26, 2025.**

** **

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

The University of Manitoba Vascular Surgery program provides a balance, being
small enough to be flexible and personal. Our residents have input into their
training choices and gain independence through their training levels with the
support of our dedicated faculty, while they work toward their personal goals
and those of the program. Our Program sees a broad spectrum of vascular cases
as Winnipeg serves as a referral base for all of Manitoba, Northwestern
Ontario, and Nunavut.

You are required to fulfill ALL of the most current provincial criteria for
Canadian medical graduates for Manitoba.

The criteria can be found at: <https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Maximum of three letters of reference are required. Referees must have
knowledge of your clinical and patient care skills as well as your
communication skills, interests, and strengths. References will not be
reviewed if submitted after the opening of file review.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter should be included with the application stating your reasons
for wanting to become a vascular surgeon as well as a description of your
interests in and outside of medicine (for example, sports, reading, etc).
Please outline any personal history that may be appropriate or relevant to
your application.

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All completed application files provided by the deadline will be reviewed by
the Vascular Surgery Admissions Committee.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 26, 2025

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The candidates will be given an
opportunity to meet the residents and members of faculty within the Vascular
Surgery program. Every attempt will be made to answer any questions concerning
our program. Interviews are 20-30 minutes in length and held virtually,
conducted by faculty members of the Vascular Surgery program.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Selection Criteria will include:

A keen interest for Vascular Surgery as well as suitability for a career in
Vascular as demonstrated by:

    * Reference letters, in particular references from Vascular Surgeons with whom the applicant has worked
    * Personal letter
    * Academic transcript
    * Personal interview
    * Previous degrees/awards
    * Research interest (published)



## Program goals

The Vascular Surgery Resident Training Program at the University of Manitoba
seeks to provide the highest quality care to patients while supporting the
educational, research, and health and wellness needs of our residents. The aim
of the program is to provide the best possible environment, technology,
facilities, and human resources in order to facilitate comprehensive education
and training of residents, along with medical students and clinical fellows.

## Selection process goals

A successful applicant will demonstrate a mature, dedicated and self-directed
approach to acquiring the knowledge and technical skill set required for
Vascular Surgery. Effective communication skills and a team-based attitude are
essential to working within an interdisciplinary team of care providers.
Successful applicants will have elective experience in Vascular Surgery, with
an interest in ongoing research and academics.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is comprised of the Program Director
and faculty/resident members of the Residency Program Committee (RPC).

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Ability to work with teams; Leadership potential; Research experience; Extra-curricular; Interests.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  At least one on-site elective.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  No additional assessment required   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Interests relating to, and also outside of, medicine.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership potential.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Applicant should be in good standing at their respective medical school.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  No specific format is requested here.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  At least 3 letters from faculty/mentors (see Reference Documents section, below).   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Publications, chapters, posters, etc (to assess for interest/potential for research).   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Applicant should be in good standing at their respective medical school.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We prefer applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Capacity for dedicated team-work; Participation in an interdisciplinary team.   
Collegiality |  Reliability; Honesty; Integrity.   
Communication skills |  Effective; Compassionate.   
Health advocacy |  No additional assessment required   
Interest in the discipline |  Interest in Vascular Surgery; At least 1 formal elective in Vascular Surgery.   
Interest in the program |  On-site Vascular Surgery elective is required; Knowledge and interest specific to our program.   
Leadership skills |  Potential for leadership.   
Professionalism |  Ethical decision-making; Honesty; Capacity for self-directed learning.   
Scholarly activities |  Academic performance in medical school; Interest/potential for research/scholarly pursuits.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  Any other situation, either witnessed or reported, wherein an
applicant's professionalism and honesty are found to be compromised.  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Vascular Surgery service is based at two sites, St. Boniface General
Hospital and Health Sciences Centre. There is also a Risk Factor Clinic
located at the Grace General Hospital. The clinical vascular service is a busy
one, performing 900-1000 major vascular cases per year (including hemoaccess
procedures).

The small number of faculty allows for close supervision of all residents.

There is a large volume of peripheral interventions that allows for residents
to be taught by interventional radiologists and vascular surgeons.

Opportunities for research exist in clinical outcomes, collaborative
translation, and education.

The Vascular Surgery service is closely linked to the Interventional Radiology
service, and interaction and discussion between members of the two services
occur on a daily basis. A close relationship also exists with the Ultrasound
department. Formal exposure in both these areas is available for the
residents.

A block in Vascular Medicine is provided through the Grace General Hospital, a
community hospital located in Winnipeg, Manitoba. This experience includes
vascular surgery assessment and cardiovascular risk factor management.

In addition to a vascular trauma I.R. component and opportunities for renal
and visceral artery reconstruction, the bulk of the clinical exposure
comprises abdominal aortic aneurysms, carotid artery disease, aorto-iliac and
infrainguinal disease, and hemoaccess dialysis procedures.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

A curriculum for all surgical residents at University of Manitoba during the
PGY1 Surgical Foundations year includes weekly seminars, technical skills
laboratory sessions, online case-based learning modules, surgical foundations
examination review lectures, and a series of formative assessments. Progress
through Surgical Foundations is not time-based, but residents must complete
the EPAs in order to be promoted to the Core of Discipline stage of the
primary specialty. The Surgical Foundations exam will be moved to the fall of
the second year of residency training (i.e., approximately 12-15 months after
beginning residency.)

For the entire 5 years of the program, in addition to the weekly vascular
rounds—which address basic and clinical vascular topics—audit,
interdisciplinary, and vascular surgery "professor" rounds, along with journal
clubs, form part of the training program. During daily rounds and weekly
vascular rounds, the resident is responsible to demonstrate adequate teaching
skills with junior house staff and associated staff (nursing).

Research is a mandatory component of the residency training program.
Residents are encouraged to pursue scholarly work both longitudinally through
the program and may take time to do a research rotation.

Core rotations are based at the Health Sciences Centre and St. Boniface
Hospitals.

Elective opportunities and opportunities for rotations at other hospitals
across Manitoba are possible.

**Curriculum - PGY1 to PGY5**

PGY1 - PGY2

The PGY1 and PGY2 years are designed to fulfill the requirements as set out by
the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, as they relate to core
training in the Surgical Foundations Program. This includes a maximum of 9
blocks to be undertaken in Vascular Surgery, and includes additional core
rotations in Critical Care, Initial Trauma Management (i.e. Emergency
Medicine, General Surgery, Trauma Team, or Orthopedic Surgery), General
Surgery, and Internal Medicine or one of its subspecialties.

PGY3 - PGY5

A formal 36 months of Vascular Surgical training is incorporated in the PGY3
to PGY5 years, focusing on an incrementally graded increase in clinical
responsibility and duties. During this time, there are expectations for
regular participation on ward rounds, the operating room and in clinics. These
years include 26 blocks of Vascular Surgery (16 of which must be at a senior
resident level), 2 blocks of a Vascular Lab rotation completed at the
University of Toronto, 13 blocks of selective rotations, a maximum of 13
blocks of training relevant to the resident's career goals, and a maximum of 7
block of additional Vascular Surgery training.

* * *

# Training Sites

The Vascular Surgery service is based at two sites, St. Boniface General
Hospital and Health Sciences Centre, with a Risk Factor Clinic located at the
Grace General Hospital. The clinical vascular service is a busy one,
performing 900-1000 major vascular cases per year (including hemoaccess
procedures).

* * *

# Additional Information

The strengths of our program include the small and dedicated group of faculty
and the large clinical volume encompassing all aspects of Vascular and
Endovascular Surgery. Our trainees are extremely well-trained and immediately
capable of practicing modern vascular surgery in an academic or community
setting upon graduation.

Interested individuals should not hesitate to contact the program
administrator at vascular.surg@umanitoba.ca, with any further questions
regarding the University of Manitoba Vascular Surgery Program.

For a full description of our program please visit the [Vascular Surgery
Program website](https://umanitoba.ca/medicine/department-surgery/vascular-
surgery-residency).





Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26544?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26544