#  University of Calgary - Medical Microbiology - Calgary  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Luiz Lisboa  

Address Pathology and Lab Medicine - Microbiology  
Diagnostic Scientific Center 9-3535 Research Road NW  
Calgary, Alberta, T2L 2K8  

Work  403-770-3310

Work

Websites of Interest [ University of Calgary - Department of Pathology and
Laboratory Medicine ](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/departments/pathology/home)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Shawna Pitman

Title: Program Administrator

Email: shawna.pitman@aplabs.ca

Phone: 403-770-3676

  

* * *

# Important Information

**[CaRMS - Provincial Eligibility:
Alberta](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/)**



Current Status of Program: Accredited (2022)

The University of Calgary Medical Microbiology program will launch Competency
by Design curriculum in July 2025.

The University of Calgary has an inter-institution affiliation agreement with
the University of Alberta/Public Health Laboratory for one 4-week rotation in
public health and reference microbiology in Edmonton.  This is a mandatory
rotation for all medical microbiology residents in the University of Calgary
Medical Microbiology program.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

For English language proficiency requirements for graduates of Quebec and New
Brunswick medical schools, please refer to the above link for provincial
eligibility criteria in Alberta.



* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Reference letters should be sent directly to CaRMS by the referee and should
arrive at the CaRMS office by the stated CaRMS deadline. Candidates should
have acceptable letters of recommendation from faculty members or consultants
who know the candidate well. The Referee should comment on the student's
knowledge, communication, collaboration and leadership skills as well as
professionalism. A reference from a senior resident will not be accepted.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

The application will not be considered without a personal letter.  The
personal letter should be a one to two page summary outlining why the
candidate is interested and applying to a Medical Microbiology residency
program.  



Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Please note that any documents received by the program after the CaRMS
document deadline will not be considered.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 30, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Virtual interviews will be scheduled during
the national interview period. The interview date is tentatively set January
30, 2025.  The program will contact successful applicants by e-mail and
provide further details regarding the interview process.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Virtual interviews will be conducted
over the span of half a day, and will take place with the Program Director,
members of the residency program committee, and other faculty. The candidate
will also have the opportunity to meet virtually with current residents in the
program.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Applicants are ranked by the Medical Microbiology Residency Program Committee,
taking into account the assessments of other faculty members and current
trainees. Selection criteria are based upon Program Goals.

## Program goals

The vision of the University of Calgary Medical Microbiology Residency
Training program is to train the highest calibre of medical microbiologists to
fill clinical roles in community, public health and academic settings as well
as leadership roles in laboratory medicine.

We strive to provide a well-rounded experience in all these areas while
including flexibility in the training to meet the residents' individual
interests and needs.

## Selection process goals

A successful applicant for our program requires demonstration of the following
skills and attributes:

  * exhibition of interest and committment in Medical Microbiology
  * academic achievement
  * self-motivation
  * leadership skills
  * exceptional communication skills
  * exceptional collaborator/team work skills
  * professionalism
  * curiosity and inquiry

The above skills and attributes are essential for a trainee to be successful
in our residency training and their future careers.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team includes the program director, and
at least two other members of the residency training program committee or
faculty.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
Applicant numbers have ranged between 2-9 over the last three CARMs
iterations.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Life experiences not captured in CARMS application, organizational skills. Also used to cross reference/clarify details in CARMs application.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  An elective in the discipline of Medical Microbiology is strongly recommended to help the candidate explore the specialty as Medical Microbiology rotations/experiences are not mandatory for most Canadian medical schools. While a full Medical Microbiology elective is not essential to be accepted for an interview, residents must have demonstrated some committement/interest to the discipline through previous educational experiences and exploration, research and/or electives in specialities with close ties to Medical Microbiology (i.e. Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology, Infectious Disease and/or Public Health).   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Reviewed for evidence of balance and wellness; evidence of transferable skills to residency training and Medical Microbiology practice.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Reviewed for evidence of leadership opportunities and experiences   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Reviewed for academic ability and clinical performance.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Reviewed and evaluated for written communication skills, as well as the understanding, interest in and commitment to the discipline of Medical Microbiology.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Reviewed for candidate character and clinical ability and attributes in all CanMeds roles.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Reviewed for research potential and ability, scientific curiosity, communication. Research is not essential but is an asset.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Reviewed for the overall performance and academic ability.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We strongly recommend an elective in the discipline of Medical Microbiology to
help students make the best choice for themsleves.  Most Canadian medical
schools do not require a core experience or rotation in Medical Microbiology
or any other laboratory medicine discipline. We understand that access to
electives in Medical Microbiology, particularly in the COVID-19 pandemic that
electives could be difficult to arrange or not available at home Medical
Schools, but applicants can also demonstrate experience and interest in
adjacent specialties such as Infectious Disease, Public Health and/or General
Pathology, research, scholarly and career exploration activities.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Collaboration skills with peers, faculty, patients, allied health professionals, conflict resolution skills   
Collegiality |  Ability to work with others   
Communication skills |  Communication skills and style   
Health advocacy |  Evidence of activities that promote health in communities and the public at large   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstration of electives, interest and knowledge; reflection on learning experiences related to Medical Microbiology   
Interest in the program |  Demonstration of knowledge or interest in our program   
Leadership skills |  Extent, depth, breadth and reflection of leadership experiences and how they are transferrable to training and career   
Professionalism |  Ethics, adaptability; limitations; ability to self-reflect & assess experiences   
Scholarly activities |  Scholarly activity; depth & extent and applicability or transferability to Medical Microbiology; self-motivation   
Other interview component(s) |  -Problem Solving Skills related to Medical Microbiology  
-Exploration of the applicant's values and goals and what the program has to offer to further candidate training and career goals   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  We do not specifically look at applicant social media use, however,
we are very sensitive to the principles of digital professionalism, and
applicants must understand that information they place into the public domain
matters.  
  
If unsolicited comments (through any media) are received concerning an
applicant, the information would be noted by the Program only if it was
egregious, investigated and confirmed to be accurate. Otherwise, it would be
rejected as hearsay. More often than not, in our experience, the unsolicited
information is in praise of the applicant.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The vision of the University of Calgary Medical Microbiology Residency
Training program is to train the highest calibre of medical microbiologists to
fill clinical roles in community, public health and academic settings as well
as leadership roles in laboratory medicine to meet our societal needs.

Residents who complete our program will have attained a broad based, diverse
and competitive skill set that is fundamental to a well-rounded career as a
Medical Microbiologist in any setting.

Particular strengths of our program:

**1\. The centralized laboratory model**. The Diagnostic & Scientific Center
(DSC), the primary training site, is a population-based laboratory that serves
both the community and all the hospitals in Calgary and much of Southern
Alberta, a population of 1.2 million for acute care microbiology. This unique
set up for training provides access to specimens of unsurpassed volume and
complexity.

**2\. Strong Laboratory Management component of training** : Our approach to
integrate laboratory management into training at both DSC and Public Health
Lab sites through longitudinal experiences will prepare our residents for
their future careers in a practical way. The Medical Microbiologists at the
DSC also provide consultative Microbiology services for Northern, Central and
Southern Alberta microbiology laboratories which will also be tied into their
training to prepare residents for their roles in community settings.

**3\. Dedicated teaching faculty:** Our faculty includes both clinical and
academic members that are dedicated to quality education and supporting this
residency program. Our academic faculty members at both laboratory sites have
excelled in both clinical and basic science research in a variety of interest
areas: antimicrobial resistance, laboratory surveillance of infectious
diseases of public health importance, development of molecular diagnostics,
clinical microbial genomics, infectious prevention and control and more. They
will provide mentorship to our residents to train and prepare residents for
academic and community positions.

**4\. Supportive and Adaptive Learning environment** : As a newer residency
program (inception 2015), our program continues to grow and evolve to provide
the best learning opportunities for our residents. We value the input of our
residents for the continual quality improvement of our residency program.
There is inherent flexibility in Medical Microbiology training (several
selective and elective blocks) and our program encourages residents to tailor
these experiences to meet their learning and future career needs.  

**5\. Strong ties to the Infectious Disease Programs** : Our program benefits
tremendously from close cooperation with the Adult and Pediatric Infectious
Disease subspecialty residency training program at the University of Calgary.
This cooperation includes rotations, rounds, academic half-day sessions and
other teaching opportunities to meet many of our shared objectives and
requirements for training.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Medical Microbiology residency training program at the University of
Calgary is a 5-year, Royal College accredited program. Our aim is to provide
and assist residents in developing competencies and expertise in all aspects
of medical microbiology, to offer them opportunities to hone their skills in
specific areas of interest, and to prepare them for a fulfilling career in the
specialty.

**Program Outline**

Rotations are specifically organized to allow residents to move between
laboratory and clinical rotations to build on learning and experiences from
each sphere of practice. In July 2025, Medical Microbiology will transition to
the Royal College Competency by Design (CBD).  The current structure of our
program lends well to the CBD framework.  Below is the current outline of
rotations for the program. As planning is still underway for CBD roll out,
there may be changes in numbers of each of the rotations and organization
however major shifts are not expected.

**PGY1  **

In their first year, residents will undergo Basic Clinical Training (BCT).
Modelled after what was previously known as the rotating internship, the aim
is to provide clinical exposure to prepare for and contextualize later
training in medical microbiology and infectious diseases. Rotations include
internal medicine and its subspecialties, general surgery, emergency medicine,
and pediatrics. The rotations primarily occur at the Rockyview General
Hospital but may occur at other hospital sites. For CBD, these rotations will
be captured in the Transition to Discipline and Foundations of Discipline
stages and competencies.

**PGY-2 to PGY-5 Stages of Training**

The following four years of training will consist of rotations in medical
microbiology, infectious diseases, and elective time, interwoven to provide a
balanced and engaging experience.

_Diagnostic Microbiology_  (26 blocks)

Rotations in microbiology will largely be lab-based, and will include the core
disciplines of bacteriology, virology, mycology, and parasitology. Other
disciplines such as molecular microbiology, mycobacteriology, laboratory
management, public health, infection control, and antimicrobial stewardship
will have dedicated rotations as well. Lab management, infection control, and
antimicrobial stewardship will have a longitudinal curriculum as well, with
focused teaching and projects that will be completed over the span of the
residency.  The primary site of training is the microbiology lab at the
Diagnostic & Scientific Centre.  Public health lab and virology/serology
rotations occur the Public Health Lab - Calgary (South) as well as one
mandatory rotation in Edmonton at Public Health Lab - Edmonton (North).

_Infectious Diseases_  (13 blocks)

These rotations will be mostly inpatient consult service for infectious
diseases, divided between adult and pediatric, and between the different sites
to expose the resident to a wide array of experiences and learning
opportunities. Rotations in outpatient settings, including TB Services and HIV
clinic, will also be provided.  Rotations occur at all five hospital sites:
Foothills Medical Centre, Peter Lougheed Centre, South Health Campus,
Rockyview General Hospital and Alberta Children’s Hospital. Residents will
develop increasing autonomy and responsibility on the Infectious Disease team
through the stages of training.

In CBD, Foundations of Discipline will include early rotations in PGY2 that
cover bacteriology, virology and 2-3 infectious disease inpatient consult
service rotations. Core of Discipline will span the remaining PGY2-early PGY5
rotations.  As noted above, clinical and laboratory rotations are interwoven
throughout these years. Transition to Practice will span the last 6-9 months
of training. Transition to practice will include both laboratory and clinical
rotations to integrate all aspects of their knowledge and skills to function
as a junior staff member.

_Electives_  (9-13 blocks)

Residents are encouraged to use this time to explore and develop expertise
areas of medical microbiology that appeal to them and where their career focus
may be.  Areas of electives can be in basic science, epidemiology, molecular
methods, tropical medicine, The versatility afforded by these blocks allows a
customized program, which can be developed in discussion with the program
director. Residents are strongly encouraged to use at least a portion of this
time for dedication to research projects. With CBD, many of the electives will
fall in the last year of training between the Royal College Exam and
Transition to Practice and graduation.

**Learning Opportunities**

Academic half-days are on an ongoing weekly basis, and run on a two-year
cycle. Topics encompass both medical microbiology and clinical infectious
diseases, spanning the breadth of the discipline. Residents are also expected
to attend (and to present at) weekly Infectious Diseases seminars and city-
wide case rounds as well as the monthly Medical Microbiology Journal Club.

Residents are encouraged and expected to take part in research and quality
improvement projects during their residency. There are many faculty in the
division proper who are happy to mentor and tailor projects to a resident's
interests, and a host of links to the Department of Pathology & Laboratory
Medicine, and the Department of Microbiology, Immunology & Infectious Diseases
for further opportunities and collaboration if desired.

* * *

# Training Sites

The base site for the program is at the **Diagnostic and Scientific Centre**.
This location serves as major component for bacteriology, mycology,
parasitology, and molecular diagnostics.

Other laboratory training sites include:

  * Provincial Laboratory for Public Health in Southern Alberta (Foothills Medical Centre, Calgary) -- virology, serology, molecular, mycobacteriology, public health microbiology
  * Provincial Laboratory for Public Health in Northern Alberta (University of Alberta Hospital, Edmonton) -- mycobacteriology, molecular typing and sequencing, containment level three processes and practices, public health microbiology

Please note that in order to offer the full suite of educational opportunities
(mycobacteriology, bacterial typing in particular) during the course of the
program, there is a one-4-week mandatory rotation in Edmonton at the
Provincial Laboratory. Timing of this rotation is flexible to best accommodate
the resident's schedule and usually occurs in the PGY-4 year.  The timing of
this may change as Competency by Design rolls out for our program in July
2025.

Clinical training sites for infectious diseases include:

  * Foothills Medical Centre
  * Peter Lougheed Centre
  * Rockyview General Hospital
  * South Health Campus
  * Alberta Children's Hospital

The off-service rotations in PGY1 (i.e. Internal Medicine, General Surgery,
Emergency Medicine) primarily are based at the Rockyview General Hospital.

Infection Control and Stewardship occur at all hospital sites. One Public
Health rotation occurs at the Alberta Health Services Communicable Disease
Unit.

* * *

# Additional Information

n/a

* * *

# FAQ

**How many residents are in your program?**  
We are a small program. We currently have three residents in the program and
can vary from 1 to 3 residents at any given time. The Medical Microbiologist
to resident ratio ranges year to year from 4:1 to 6:1.  
  
**How is the training organized?**  
After the PGY1 general year, the program integrates both laboratory, clinical
and elective rotations through out the four years. This provides residents
with opportunities to build and transfer their skills between various spheres
of practice.  
  
**What are the call requirements like?**  
In the PGY-1 year, this varies depending on the rotation. The maximum call
frequency is 1:4 in-house call, and 1:3 home call. In PGY-2 to 5, most
rotations are home call. On medical microbiology rotations, overnight call is
not required in the first few months of core training, then is implemented
gradually, first with day-call (including one weekend/month), then overnight.
Once graduated to overnight call responsibilities, residents are expected to
be on-call for one week in each four-week block on mandatory laboratory
rotations.

**Is there funding for conferences and other academic experiences?**  
Yes. Funding is available for educational events such as conferences.
Residents are encouraged to present posters or oral presentations but are
permitted and funded to attend conferences even when not presenting.  
  
**What are the elective opportunities?**  
For residents, there are up to 13 blocks of elective rotations in the Medical
Microbiology training. As CBD is implemented the numbers may be reduced in
order to meet the comptencies.  There will be some elective opportunity prior
to the Royal College Exam (spring of PGY4) and some after the exam. The
elective opportunities are very flexible and tailored to the resident’s
interests and future career plans. Residents are encouraged to focus on
research and dedicated projects in their area of interests. Rotations in other
centers outside of Calgary are strongly encouraged.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26392?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26392