#  University of British Columbia - Family Medicine - Victoria  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on November 08, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 18

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Joshua Greggain  

Address Faculty of Medicine – Department of Family Practice  
300-5950 University Boulevard  
Vancouver, British Columbia, V6T 1Z3  

Websites of Interest [ UBC CaRMS Website ](http://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Jana Ogdenova

Title: Program Co-manager

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Kelly Jacobs

Title: Program Co-manager

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Cindy Choi

Title: Education Coordinator

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Josie Terlesky

Title: Site Coordinator

Email: jterlesky@uvic.ca

Phone: 250.370.8564

  

Name: Dr. Tina Webber

Title: Co-Site Director

Email: pwebber1@uvic.ca

Phone: 250.370.8111 ext. 13417

  

Name: Dr. Mike Putland

Title: Co-Site Director

Email: michaelputland@uvic.ca

Phone: 250.370.8111 ext. 13417

  

* * *

# Important Information

Prospective residents should refer to the [Family Medicine Residency
Selection](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/) website for ongoing updates,
deadlines and detailed information.  
  

FMProC: Important timelines

For the 2025 residency selection cycle ALL FM residency programs in Canada
require applicants to sit FMProC for those applying in both rounds of CaRMS.



FMProC test window for CaRMS first Iteration is from **October 28 (8AM ET) to
November 11, 2024 (10AM ET).  **

Registration opens from **September 11 (12 noon ET) and closes on November 07,
2024 (10AM ET).  **

** **

To register and find out more about the test please go to**
****[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/)**. All test related updates will
be posted on the website.

Requests to register or to sit the test outside of the posted deadlines will
not be considered.



**Upon completion of FMProC,  you must upload** your FMProC result letter to
CaRMS for your application to be considered complete.

** **

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Resident selection for the UBC Family Medicine program is a collaborative
process between all of our sites. Logistics and administration of resident
selection is managed by our central program office in Vancouver, located at
the UBC Point Grey Campus.

As the UBC Family Medicine Program is distributed into 23 unique sites and
locations, candidates should apply to each site they are interested in.  
Applicants must submit same application package to all sites to which they
apply.  

Regardless of the number of sites applicants apply to and rank, **only one
interview will be conducted**.

A variety of virtual information sessions will be held to provide prospective
residents with the opportunity to learn more about the programs and discuss
the training experience with faculty and current residents. Please visit
[Program Events](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/interviews-and-program-
events/) for upcoming events.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



Examinations

Required

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required.

  * Regardless of reference source, reference letters should speak to an interest in Family Medicine and aptitude for the discipline.
  * Using anecdotal narrative if possible, letters should provide evidence of attributes and abilities well suited for a career in Family Medicine.
  * These attributes and abilities are also evaluated in our interview process (see interview criteria and components).

Note: Traditional narrative letters will **NOT**** ** be accepted.  
Please note that should your reference submit a traditional letter it will not
be reviewed and your application may be deemed incomplete.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360018302672-What-documents-can-and-cannot-be-shared-transferred-from-physiciansapply-ca) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

_Provide a biographical letter (max. 750 words) that includes answers to the
following questions:_

_1.        __What life skills or  lived experience do you have that
demonstrate your suitability for family medicine residency training?_

_2.     Why would a career in Family Medicine be a good fit for you?_

_3.        __Why UBC? Why British Columbia? Please elaborate with specific
examples of any connections you might have with the province of B.C., like
community connections, education, work experience, etc.  
  
_

_ _      _**Note: The same letter must be submitted with each site
application.** _

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 18, 2025
  * January 19, 2025
  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025
  * January 25, 2025
  * January 26, 2025
  * January 27, 2025
  * January 28, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: 2025 R-1 match interviews will continue to
be in a virtual format.  
  
The national interview period is January 18- February 09, 2025.  
**UBC interviews** will take place between the dates of **January 18-28, 2025.
**  
  
Please note that candidates will be interviewed once, regardless of number of
training sites you apply to.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All interviews will be conducted in a
live, synchronous MMI format. The UBC Family Medicine (FM) program will
contact the selected applicants by email to provide program-specific interview
details and interview links.  
  
If you wish to add a new program/site to your rank list after your interview,
you must update your CaRMS application by our **Program deadline, January 29,
2025**. This date will be posted here as soon as it is determined.  
  
Any additional sites added to your application after this date will not be
considered for ranking.  
  
  
**Important** : you must also link your documents to any newly ranked site.  
  
Regardless of the number of sites to which you apply, one final score will be
generated after the interview.  
If you are matched, the program will be unable to facilitate transfer from one
site to another.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Applicants must submit an application to each site they are interested in and
should assign the same set of documents to each site. Selection is based on
file review and one set of MMI interviews. Each file is reviewed and given a
score. This file review score determines whether a candidate is offered an
interview. The file review score is then combined with the interview score and
FMPROC score to create a total score for each applicant. **The file review
score will contribute to 20%, interview score will contribute to 75%, and
FMProC  will contribute to 5% of the overall global score**. A recommended
rank list based on the total score is submitted to each site for
consideration. The sites retain discretion to adjust the recommended rank list
based on local site selection committee input.

## Program goals

  1. To graduate residents who have developed the competencies needed to begin independent family practice in diverse community settings
  2. To deliver an effective academic, clinical and scholarly educational program
  3. To graduate residents who are inspired, resilient, and balanced
  4. To graduate residents who demonstrate evidence-based and reflective practice
  5. To provide working and learning environments that ensure residents, faculty and staff feel respected and supported

## Selection process goals

  1. Identify individuals with an aptitude for family medicine who are most likely to thrive in our diverse residency sites and in the unique context of British Columbia communities
  2. Identify individuals with a demonstrated solid foundation of clinical skills and clinical approach which equips them for Postgraduate Education training.
  3. Identify individuals who have consistent professional behavior; who interact appropriately with patients, colleagues and staff.
  4. Identify mature, motivated individuals with a broad range of life experience which they can draw upon to adapt to the demands of residency training.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is composed of faculty leadership
from across our distributed program, the program director and senior
administration.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 601 +  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership skills are considered in the context of the personal letters and reference letters   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Taken into consideration only if professionalism issues are identified   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstrated suitability to Family Medicine and training in BC through experience and life skills   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Demonstrated suitability through attributes, abilities and interest in the discipline   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
Other file component(s) |  Note: The MSPR and transcripts are required supporting documents by CaRMS but are not scored as part of the UBC Family Practice file review process.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We do not evaluate this component

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Yes: with patients and colleagues   
Collegiality |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Communication skills |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Health advocacy |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Interest in the discipline |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Interest in the program |  Yes: UBC in general, and in specific programs (rural, under-served populations, inner-city context etc.)   
Leadership skills |  Yes: assessment of leadership of self and others   
Professionalism |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Other interview component(s) |  Ability to handle Ambiguity/Uncertainty  
Advocacy/Compassion  
Resilience  
Patient centeredness  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  • File does not support interest in family medicine  
• Interview suggests lack of non-cognitive family medicine skills  
  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

### **Uniquely B.C:  UBC Family Medicine**

[Family Medicine training in BC](https://postgrad.familypractice.ubc.ca/)
presents you with many unique opportunities. We are a fully accredited
distributed program with 23 training sites and multiple training communities.
In an effort to meet the evolving needs of our society, each site provides a
solid foundation in the knowledge and clinical skills of Family Medicine so
that our graduates are prepared to practice in a variety of settings. While
our program offers diversity of training, it is based on [common goals,
learning objectives, and assessment
standards](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/program-info/).

All residents are required to do a [mandatory 2-month rural
rotation](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/resident-resources/rural-
rotation/) in Family Medicine in their second year. Residents in the Coastal,
or rural programs in the Okanagan or the North complete longer rural
placements. Residents can also apply to participate in Enhanced Rural training
for a total of 4-6 months in rural communities.

There is extensive [academic and administrative
support](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/about/program-matrix/) for the
entire residency program. Our central program administrative team is based in
Vancouver on UBC campus. At the site level, leadership teams are made up of a
Site Director, Site Faculty, Lead Residents and administrators. Lead Program
Faculty provide provincial education support in the areas of curriculum,
assessment, faculty development, scholarship and behavioral medicine.

The Family Practice Postgraduate Education Committee has representation from
all sites to ensure a connected, distributed program that fully meets
accreditation standards. Residents are represented at all levels of
governance.

A wide range of amazing recreational and cultural opportunities are at your
doorstep, as well as a collegial community of residents and physicians with
whom you can learn, grow, and play. We want your experience to be in BC to be
a positive and enjoyable one.

### **Training Sites: Overview**

Visit the [UBC Family Medicine Postgraduate website
](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/)for a detailed overview of each of the 23
sites and their surrounding communities.  Each site provides opportunities to
experience Family Medicine in their unique context, offering special
opportunities to gain experience and skills unique to the area where you are
training.

The following is a list of our sites and their base community/hospital. Each
site serves the surrounding community (see [training
sites](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/training-sites/interactive-map/) for
full details):



**Greater Vancouver / Lower Mainland**

  * Abbotsford-Mission
  * Coastal (North Vancouver, Lion’s Gate Hospital)
  * Chilliwack
  * Indigenous (Greater Vancouver and rural Indigenous communities)
  * St. Paul's (Downtown Vancouver, Inner City)
  * Surrey South Fraser (Surrey Memorial Hospital)
  * Vancouver Fraser (New Westminster, Royal Columbian)



**Interior Region**

  * Kootenay Boundary (Trail, Nelson, Rossland, Castlegar)
  * Kelowna Rural (Kelowna R1 year; rural communities across BC in R2 year)
  * Kelowna Regional
  * North Okanagan (Vernon)
  * Okanagan South (Penticton)
  * Kamloops



**Vancouver Island**

  * Indigenous (Victoria, Ladysmith and rural Indigenous communities including Pacheedaht, Penelakut, ‘Namgis)
  * Quw'utsun (Duncan)
  * Nanaimo 
  * Strathcona (Comox, Campbell River and Courtenay)
  * Victoria



**Northern**

  * Fort St. John (Northeast)
  * Northern Rural (Prince George R1 year; rural communities across BC in R2 year)
  * Prince George
  * Rural Immersion (Hazelton, Smithers, Vanderhoof, Mackenzie, Valemount/McBride, Chetwynd/Tumbler Ridge)
  * Terrace (Rural Northwest)



**IMG positions are offered at the following sites:**

  * Abbotsford-Mission
  * Chilliwack
  * Coastal
  * Fort St. John
  * Kamloops
  * Kootenay Boundary
  * Nanaimo
  * North Okanagan
  * Okanagan South
  * Kelowna Rural
  * Kelowna Regional
  * Prince George
  * Strathcona
  * St. Paul’s
  * Surrey South Fraser
  * Vancouver Fraser
  * Victoria

### **Resident Support**

Resident resilience and wellness is our top priority. Important
[resources](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/resident-resources/resident-
wellness-and-safety/) have been developed by our program to support our
residents throughout the course of the training.

All UBC programs are allocated a fixed amount of funding per resident for
Resident Activities.  This funding is used to provide educational support to
residents during their 2 years of training. This includes funding for
residents to attend program-wide courses and events. Additionally, residents
may identify conferences and educational materials that would supplement their
training experience. A discretionary, per resident funding will also be
allocated to the sites for a similar purpose at the site level.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Introduction**

The Victoria Site has a comprehensive program that provides its graduates with
the skills in acute care and community care to confidently provide services in
a variety of patient care settings.

Our Site is based in Victoria and South Vancouver Island, British Columbia.
Victoria is a medium sized city with a population of approx. 400,000, situated
on the southern tip of Vancouver Island, and is a short distance via road from
world class surfing beaches, local farms, wineries, deep powder skiing, and
year round golfing. Victoria also features scheduled car ferries, scheduled
airlines operating fixed wing, float plane, helicopter, and luxury passenger-
only ferry connections to the mainland.  This makes for easy access to weekend
escapes in Vancouver, Seattle, Tofino, or the Gulf Islands. The outstanding
natural beauty of the area encourages an active life style, as does the sub-
Mediterranean climate. As Victoria is in the rain shadow of the Olympic
Mountains, it gets about half of the annual rain fall of Vancouver.

All Family Practice Residents are based in community settings in the South
Island region from Greater Victoria to Sidney, and from Sooke to Duncan, for
their Family Medicine experiences.

**Purpose/Objectives**

The Mission of the Victoria Site is:

"The development of skilled primary care physicians who are effective
providers of comprehensive community based health care, in the wide variety of
settings of British Columbia, with a focus on under serviced populations."

"In pursuit of this mission, the training curriculum will embrace the
principles of Family Medicine, and will direct Residents in training towards
healthy lifestyles, within a background of professional flexibility and
lifelong learning."

The Victoria site program is characterized by a Resident group that is closely
knit and collegial.

**Program Outcomes**

Follow-up analysis of our residents upon graduating from the Family Practice
program at the Victoria Site reveals a high level of preparedness in all areas
of Family Medicine. Residents completing at the Victoria Site are active in
many different practice styles and locations after graduation, and feel as at
home in rural and semi-urban environments as they do in an urban setting.

**PGY1 Overview**

Because our mission is to graduate residents who have the ability to practice
in rural and urban settings, both community family practice and hospital care
factor equally in our first year.

PGY1 residents have a continuous, substantial longitudinal and immersive
commitment to community family practice, where the resident is placed in a
home clinic that has been specifically matched to their declared interests.

There is also an expectation of exposure to hospital care within patient-care
oriented rotations.  This includes a requirement to provide overnight in-
hospital call, which helps to develop the autonomy of the learner particularly
in under-resourced situations.  Residents can expect to provide patient
services on call on average 1:4 in Internal Medicine and 1:4 in Pediatrics.
These are often partnered with other learners – medical students, or other
residents, including senior residents.

There is a total of 6 months of Family Practice community clinic exposure in
the R1 year including a 1 month of Introduction to Family Medicine, 4 months
of Family Practice, including Family Practice Obstetrics, and Women’s Health,
as well as an additional 1 month of Concentrated Family Practice.  Both
Concentrated and Intro to Family Practice have no call expectations, so the
resident can be fully immersed in the community family practice experience.

The non-family medicine block experiences are comprised of 4 weeks of
Pediatric CTU, 4 weeks of Internal Medicine CTU, 2 weeks of In Hospital
Medicine (family medicine hospitalists), 2 weeks of Cardiac Medicine, and 4
weeks of Emergency Medicine.  We strive to include outpatient experiences
within the hospital block of appropriate rotations if they are available in
the community.

Academic Half Days each week and a full FP clinic day back every 2 weeks to
the resident’s associated FP office provide a longitudinal community family
medicine component throughout the non-family blocks of the first year.

**Call Expectations**  

Resident physicians will provide patient care after hours and on weekends
during low resource periods for hospital care which provide maximal
experiential educational opportunities.

Minimum call requirements are as follows:

R1 Year:

LDR: 8 24-hour shifts, 3 of which occur during two-week LDR rotation (72
hours) and 5 during FP rotation (120 hours)

House: 8 overnight/weekend shifts, 3 of which occur during two-week
Hospitalist rotation and 5 during FP rotation

FP rotations: 126 hours (based on 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. weeknights and 3:00
p.m. to 7:00 a.m. weekends)

Hospitalist rotation: 72 hours (based on 24 hours)

CTU: 168 hours (based on 24 hour shifts)

Pediatrics: 168 hours (based on 24 our shifts)

Addictions Medicine: 6 hours (not overnight, one evening call during course of
rotation)

Total = Baseline/approx. 732 hours (avg. 1 call per week)



R2 Year:

House: 7 shifts unless on extended rural then reduced to 5 shifts (98 hours
based on 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. weeknights)

LDR: Recommended if planning obstetrical practice; # hours at Resident
discretion

Palliative: 17 hours (based on Friday 5:00 p.m. to Saturday 10:00 p.m.)

Psychiatry: 14 hours (based on one evening shift from 5:00 to 11:00 p.m. and
one weekend shift from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.

Total = Baseline/approx. 129 hours (avg. less than 1 shift per month; does not
include any call requirements during Rural rotation)

**Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location/Notes**  
---|---|---  
Introduction to Family Medicine |  4 weeks |  Early family practice clinic exposure, extra academic sessions on family practice approach to certain conditions, exposure to FP hospital medicine with FP Hospitalists  
Integrated Family Practice/Obstetrics/ Women’s Health |  16 weeks |  The equivalent of 8 weeks of preceptor attached Community Family Practice combined with some Family Practice acute hospital care on the hospitalist service spread out over 16 weeks.   For the Obstetrics and Women’s Health component, the encompassing Obstetrics and Gynecology, including Labor and Delivery shifts, Ante-partum care, Postpartum care, specialty Gynecology clinics, FP Pre-Natal clinics and FP oriented Women’s Health clinics spread out over 16 weeks.   LDR overnight in-hospital call (average 1 per month)  
Labour & Delivery Shifts |  2 weeks |  In Hospital exposure to Labour & Delivery shifts and overnight in-hospital call (average 1:4)  
In Hospital General Care |  6 weeks |  4 weeks Internal Medicine CTU – overnight in-hospital call (average 1:4) 2 weeks Hospitalist (Family Practice) and overnight in-hospital call (average 1:4)  
Cardiac Care |  2 weeks |  Primarily In-Hospital Cardiac Medicine; may include some ambulatory care  
Emergency |  4 weeks |  Based in the Cowichan District Hospital (Duncan) or Royal Jubilee and Victoria General Hospitals (Victoria).  
Addictions Medicine |  2 weeks |  Includes 1 week of inpatient addictions consultations, and 1 week of outpatient addictions treatment and will include option for certifying in suboxone prescribing course.   Call expectations determined by rotation  
Care of Children |  4 weeks |  In-Patient Pediatrics CTU at Victoria General Hospital, may include some ambulatory care as available in the community.   Overnight in-hospital call (Average 1:4)  
Concentrated Family Practice |  4 weeks |  1 block of time in attached community FP preceptor’s office without any additional call responsibilities or other seminars besides AHD.  
Electives |  4 weeks |  Electives may be split up into two 2-week blocks or one 4 week block.  
  
**PGY 2 Overview**

The year is comprised of several traditional blocks along with a core of 7 ½
months Family Practice component. The 22 weeks of Victoria Site-oriented
family practice provides a strong grounding, allowing residents to better
engage with a roster of patients over time.

**Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location/Notes**  
---|---|---  
Family practice (Rural Block) |  8 or 16 weeks |  8 weeks of family practice in a rural setting in communities across the province, OR 16 weeks in total with reduction Family Medicine urban component   Call expectations determined by rotation  
Elective Block  |  8 weeks   |  8 weeks of blocked electives   
BATS |  2 week   |  Combination of Anaesthesia in Victoria and Duncan, Sexual Health, Wedge excisions, Lumps and Bumps  
Palliative Care   |  4 weeks   |  4 weeks of Palliative Care in Hospice Victoria or Duncan.   Call expectations determined by rotation  
Surgical Selectives |  4 weeks |  ICU or Trauma for 2 weeks and Surgical selective of 2 weeks OR 2 x 2 weeks of Surgical Selective   Call expectations determined by rotation  
Family Medicine |  14 weeks total |  The equivalent of 14 weeks (reduced if doing Enhanced Rural) of Family Practice experience with attached urban preceptor(s)   Call expectations of one overnight in-hospital call on average every two weeks (Hospitalist Service)   Call expectations determined by Preceptor for Family Practice on call  
Elective - Family Medicine Selective |  4 weeks |  4 weeks of family medicine selectives (opportunities may be community longitudinal exposure or community GP office with incorporated focused practice)  
Psychiatry |  2 weeks |  2 weeks of Psychiatry block   Call expectations determined by rotation  
MSK Medicine |  2 weeks |  2 weeks of ambulatory Orthopedics/ Sports/Physical/Rehab Medicine/ Rheumatology  
Transition to Practice (TTP) |  4 weeks |  4 weeks of complete office immersion, penultimate or ultimate block of residency  
  
4 weeks of vacation to be taken over the year, 2 weeks in the first half and
two weeks in the second half of the year, and this is taken off of rotation(s)
of the resident’s choosing so long as they complete at least 75% of expected
days on any given rotation which is required for adequate assessment.

**Academic Days and Research**

Residents attend in person mandatory academic activities – a half day per
week. This includes academic teaching combining clinical case discussions and
core topics. Residents are also expected to do presentations. Throughout the
program, we stress "Evidence-Based Medicine" in both academic and clinical
areas.

In June of each year, residents will come together for a mandatory Site-
specific Scholarship Day.

In the first year, residents will be expected to complete a quality
improvement project. Throughout the two years, residents must complete a
scholar project and present their work at Scholarship Day.

**International Electives**

Residents can do one month of interprovincial or international electives
during the second year of their training.

**Further Training**

Third year training positions are available in the area of Emergency Medicine,
Care of The Elderly, Anesthesia, Palliative Medicine, Sports and Exercise
Medicine, Clinician Scholars program and a wide range of other category 2
Enhanced Skills programs.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Training Sites**

Our Residency program is based in the Capital Regional District which also
hosts the UBC affiliated undergraduate University of Victoria / Island Medical
Program. There are two large and very busy tertiary care hospitals, cultural
amenities, an uncommonly physically active population, and a vulnerable
population in the inner-city core.

This residency site also provides experiences in small and rural communities
where a true appreciation of the delights, values, and stresses of a more
rural lifestyle can be appreciated.

The Victoria Site is based in the Greater Victoria area and our Residents may
also work in practices and community hospitals within the smaller surrounding
communities of Sooke, Sidney, Saanich, Mill Bay, and Duncan. There are also
opportunities to complete elective and selective rotations in other
communities on Vancouver Island or other more distant rural locations within
British Columbia, however, candidates should understand that core rotations
will be completed at sites associated with the UBC Victoria Site and that the
UBC program in general does not allow switching between the various associated
training sites.

Our vibrant program gives Residents the confidence to practice in urban, semi-
urban, and rural communities after graduation. The variety of experiences and
strong training offered has also made it a solid basic program for those who
wish to explore further training in the varied enhanced R3 opportunities that
are now available, as well as to pursue the delivery of focused family
practice services in various clinical settings.

Our program fosters collegiality, support, and teamwork amongst our Residents,
and the friendships made during the time of Residency are strong and often
endure well beyond the time spent in residency. Our venue is set in some of
the most beautiful scenery the West Coast has to offer. The lifestyle in
Victoria embraces a wide variety of outdoor opportunities, sports, and
recreation which may be enjoyed in the mildest climate in Canada.

**Resources**

Based on Southern Vancouver Island, the Victoria site utilizes full service
community family practices and the 950 acute care beds of the Vancouver Island
Health Authority at Royal Jubilee and Victoria General Hospitals. Community
Resources include outpatient programs, and many community practices within the
greater Victoria area. Family Practice Residents and first year Royal College
Residents, along with the Psychiatry, Emergency, Pediatrics, and Internal
Medicine programs are the only full time postgraduate trainees. There are in
excess of 3,000 deliveries, close to 200,000 emergency room visits, and 36,000
surgical procedures carried out each year. Residents have high speed internet
access in their on-call areas, and in their preceptors' offices.

* * *

# Additional Information

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27077?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27077