#  McMaster University - Anesthesiology - Hamilton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 27, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Julie Lajoie  
Dr. Michael Parrish  

Address Department of Anesthesia  
Faculty of Health Sciences, McMaster University  
1280 Main St. W. (mailing address) 1200 Main St. W. (physical address)  
Hamilton, Ontario, L8S 4K1  

(905) 521-2100, ext. 75170

Websites of Interest [ McMaster Anesthesia Web Site
](https://anesthesia.mcmaster.ca/)  
[ PGME Town Hall Information CaRMS 2021
](https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/)  
[ You Tube Channel ](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4Rmn1bWFAjv7Hp6B32wEBg)  
[ Resident Instagram ](https://www.instagram.com/mcmasteranesthesia)  
[ Department Instagram ](https://www.instagram.com/macanesthesia/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Desigen Reddy

Title: Program Director

Email: pdanes@mcmaster.ca

Phone: (905) 521-2100, ext. 75170

  

Name: Dr. Michael Parrish

Title: Assistant Program Director, CBD Chair

Email: parrim@mcmaster.ca

Phone: 9055212100 ext. 75170

  

Name: Trish Van Sickle

Title: Program Administrator

Email: anespa@mcmaster.ca

Phone: 905 521-2100 ext 75170

  

Name: Tricia Varosky

Title: Program Administartor

Email: anespa@mcmaster.ca

Phone: 905 521-2100 ext 75154

  

* * *

# Important Information

Our program recently underwent Royal College Accreditation in May 2023, and
received the highest possible recommendation (regular cycle review 8 years)
with no weaknesses cited.

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/).  It is important to review the
requirements carefully.

To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit:
<https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/>

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

**Additional criteria for IMGs:**

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site.**

**CELPIP:  **must have minimum score of 9 in each of the four skills in the
same sitting

**IELTS ACADEMIC:  **must have minimum score of 7.0 in each of the four skills
in the same sitting

**Letter of language proficiency** is a letter from your Dean attesting that
your medical school program of instruction was completed solely in English or
French.

**OET MEDICINE** : must have minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in
the same sitting

**TOEFL IBT:  **must have minimum score of 93 with a minimum score of 24 on
the speaking section. The **TOEFL iBT Home Edition**  will be accepted as a
substitute for the TOEFL iBT.

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

For the 2023 CaRMS match, IMGs must have written and passed the Medical
Council of Canada Qualifying Examination Part 1(MCCQE1) ([Medical Council of
Canada](https://mcc.ca/)). Exam results must be provided by the File Review
Opening Date.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

The National Assessment Collaboration (NAC) Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE) is mandatory for all IMGs.** ** A pass result is required on the NAC OSCE. The results are required by the file review opening date. For more information click on the following link [National Assessment Collaboration | Medical Council of Canada](http://mcc.ca/examinations/nac-overview/)

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

**Reference documents**

**Required**

Letter of reference. Number requested: **3**

Three confidential references are required. Include a reference from a
practising Anesthesiologist, if feasible. In addition, please request the
referee to address the following questions if possible and appropriate to the
learning experience:

  1. How likely is the candidate to be punctual?
  2. How accepting is this candidate to feedback and can they assimilate it positively.
  3. How does this candidate rank amongst the medical students you have worked with: a. top 5% b. Top 10% c. top 25% d. top 50% e. lower 50%

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Required - used for memory aid

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

State reasons for choosing Anesthesia as a career. What experience have you
had in the practice of anesthesia? Why do you wish to apply to our program
specifically? The CanMEDS 2005 Physician Competency Framework is used to teach
and evaluate the competencies needed for medical training and practice. The
framework of essential physician competencies includes: Communicator,
Collaborator, Manager, Health Advocate, Scholar, and Professional. Link to
Royal College CanMEDS competencies
http://rcpsc.medical.org/canmeds/about_e.php. Please tell us how you have
exhibited some or all of these qualities professionally and personally.
Include information about yourself (eg:  accomplishments and extracurricular
activities).  Please note that the 'Personal Letter' may be subject to AI
detection software, as authenticity is required.  

Custom Résumé / CV

Please provide a curriculum vitae, detailing your experiences and
accomplishments chronologically. Please ensure that all years since high
school are accounted for so that a full time-line is available to the
reviewers.

Please note that CV’s in chronological order would be preferable, but all CV
formats will still be considered

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed. Documents that are
not in English must be accompanied by a notarized translation

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Our review process is highly standardized to ensure fairness for all
candidates.  Files are reviewed independently by two reviewers (one resident 1
staff), according to pre-set standardized review criteria.  No preference is
given to candidates from any particular University.  Electives are considered
equally regardless of where they were completed. We interview approximately 70
CMG candidates and 10 IMG candidates .The interview process consists mainly of
a Multi Mini Interview (MMI), in addition to a PD and Resident Station, all
being virtual.  There are 2 interviewers per room, one being a resident
interviewer. Interview questions and scoring are standardized and comply with
published best practices.  The interview process will remain virtual.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025

Details regarding interview dates:

  * January 22nd & 23rd

Details regarding interview dates and times will be published once the process
and numbers are finalized.

Candidates will be interviewed virtually via Zoom

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Notification/Invitation:  
  
After reviewing the application files, the program will offer and arrange
interviews for suitable candidates. Interviews will be arranged through
e-mail. The Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS Online and will
send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an interview.  A
head and shoulders photograph should be included in the e-CaRMS file.  
  
Members of the selection committee, including one faculty memebr and one
resident, will conduct separate interviews.  Standardized questions (MMI) will
be used, emphasizing aptitude in anesthesia, academic proficiency and personal
qualities.  In addition, candidates will have the opportunity to meet with the
Program Directors and Chief Resident or delegate in one of the rooms.  
  
  
Before the  interview day, candidates will have an opportunity to learn about
the Anesthesia residency program at McMaster University and about Hamilton.
The Program has placed videos on the PGME website as well as organizing town
hall meetings (with the PD's  and residents) that are open to all interested
individuals.  The dates for these meetings are published on the PGME website..  
  
A virtual social has been successfully organized in the past and the plan is
to have another one this year.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

All candidates are evaluated on their academic and clinical abilities as well
as on their characteristics. These criteria are assessed through the
information received as part of the CaRMS process, including the required
three letters of reference. We are cognizant of the reality of the present
situation, in that many candidates will not have completed electives in
anesthesia.  It will be incumbent on the candidate to make a reasonable and
convincing argument for choosing Anesthesia as an area for specialization. We
**do not**  preferentially rank applicants who have exclusively pursued
electives in anesthesia or those who have done anesthesia electives at
McMaster University versus other locations. A key aspect of candidate
selection involves the selection committee evaluating the candidates through
our interview process.

## Program goals

The McMaster Anesthesia Residency program aims to educate residents to become
independent practitioners in the field of Anesthesiology, both nationally and
globally, by providing a competency-based education with progressive clinical
responsibility. This goal is attained through extensive exposure to a diverse
population of patients with varying complexity and pathologies in our hospital
setting.  The clinical experience is complemented by a robust didactic
curriculum, simulation training, research, and creating a culture of inquiry
by teaching skills to develop scholarly activity, quality improvement and
patient safety.

The Anesthesiology Residency training will take place in an atmosphere of
mutual respect and collegiality, promoting the ability of residents to acquire
the knowledge, skills, clinical judgment and experience that will enable them
to independently practice as an Anesthesiologists in a professional, competent
and skillful manner.

## Selection process goals

A successful applicant will be keenly interested in Anesthesiology and its
related subspecialties.  They will be motivated to learn in a competency-based
medical education system. Through the application process they will have
demonstrated a strong sense of compassion and professional behaviours.
Collegiality and ability to function as part of a team are essential.
Leadership roles and research experience are an asset.  A well-rounded
individual that has a solid commitment to serving societal needs is the type
of individual we aim to attract.

## File review process

Review team composition : Review team composition : Each file is reviewed by 1
staff and 1 resident.  
An interview usually consists of 8 Multiple Mini Interview (MMI) stations,
each with a resident and staff team that mark independently. The number of
stations may change because of the virtual platform requirements. There is
also a station that involves meeting with one of the Program Directors that is
not a structured interview station.  
  

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 201 - 400  
There are 140-160 Canadian Medical Graduates (CMG) who apply for eight
positions.  
There are 80-90 International Medical Graduates (IMG) who apply for one
position.  
  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  
We usually aim to interview 40-50 CMG residents and 8-10 IMG residents

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Important: includes awards   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  It is preferable to have done electives in anesthesia. However, we are cognizant of the restrictions placed on electives and will factor that into the selection process. Electives done in Hamilton are not a necessity for selection.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Sports, interests, work experience, volunteering   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Administrative and leadership roles   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Areas of academic deficiency or professionalism issues flagged   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Scored out of 5 = NO WORD LIMIT. Typical personal letter is 1 - 2 pages.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  3 references: each scored out of 5. If more are submitted, they WILL be read but ONLY first 3 will be scored. Please do not contact program to request certain reference letters be scored. We do not have control over the order they come in.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Noted if have significant primary research experience   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Reviewed   
Other file component(s) |  Difficult to assess, but whether individual displays a willingness to relocate to Hamilton, particularly if not from Ontario.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Most CMG candidates who match to our program would have
completed at least 2 electives in Anesthesia. However, we know that this may
have been only possible for some applicants. A broad range of elective
experience is valuable and is not a "negative" on file review. Evaluations
from electives that address areas like work ethic, assimilating feedback,
compassion towards patients and enthusiasm for learning will be valued. On
Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives. We
want to reassure you that a lack of elective activity will not negatively
impact your application to our program.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We evaluate this component   
Collegiality |  We evaluate this component   
Communication skills |  We evaluate this component   
Health advocacy |  We evaluate this component   
Interest in the discipline |  We evaluate this component   
Interest in the program |  We evaluate this component   
Leadership skills |  We evaluate this component   
Professionalism |  We evaluate this component   
Scholarly activities |  We evaluate this component   
Other interview component(s) |  Ability to receive feedback and function in a team setting  
  
Interview format:  
  
1\. Interview with PD and Resident station  
2\. MMI or rotating station  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Anesthesia residency program at McMaster is unique in its ability to offer
a wide range of clinical activity at four acute care hospitals within the
setting of a relatively small and intimate residency program. We have
approximately 45 residents, 120 Hamilton-based faculty and 95 faculty with
adjunct appointments.  Residents and faculty can get to know each other well
over the course of 5 years. However, this "family" feel does not come at the
expenses of clinical exposure, with a full range of busy surgical services
servicing Hamilton and the region from Niagara Falls up to Owen Sound. Our
residents are a tight-knit group who are highly collegial and supportive of
each other.

The other strengths of our program include:

  * a strong simulation program, where residents have frequent opportunities to learn in this environment (not just as "observers")
  * the opportunity to be involved in clerkship teaching, in didactic sessions, simulation and the clinical setting
  * robust research infrastructure to support success, both for the resident who is highly interested in research as well as for the resident who is research-phobic
  * a finely-tuned academic (curriculum) program, which is tailored to each clinic year; an expert faculty member leads each session with a usual ratio of 10 learners to faculty.  Our Curriculum Chair is Dr. Syrett, who, together with our PAs, work to ensure a balanced curriculum responsive to resident feedback. 
  * call schedule that addresses fatigue-management and is tracked closely to ensure fairness and transparency for all residents.  The average call per month is two weekend split-call shifts (encompassing no more than 2 weekends) and three weekday calls for a total of 5 call shifts/month (3 of them being half-shifts)
  * clinical exposure to obstetrics and pediatric anesthesia throughout the residency program, rather than just during specific limited rotations
  * strong support of exam preparation with biannual program oral exams as well as ample MCQ practice through in-house exams and National in-training examinations. There is an MCQ subcommittee, spearheaded by Drs Wong and VanDeCappelle, ensuring teh highest quality and relevance for exam preparation.  In addition, weekly practice oral session are offered to the PGY 5 group a few months before the exams.  We have had an excellent pass rate at the Royal College exams over the past few years for both CMG and IMG residents.
  * PGY5 residents have a full academic day each week, with formal, organized oral exam training
  * **_full academic day for PGY2's and PGY4's_**** **   **(September-June), in addition to the full day that our PGY5's have throughout the year.**  This allows for a lot more independent study time for residents throughout residency, not just during the PGY5 year. PGY 1’s have a full academic day in the summer, and subsequent AHD. PGY 3, which is an off-service year, have an AHD (academic half day) until the end of block 7 and then are given a full AD to start preparation for the RC exam in early PGY5
  * the opportunity to be involved in international health through our liaison with Uganda- this elective is a four week opportunity and isfunded by St. Joseph's Healthcare; as well; a similar collaboration is beginning with the Anesthesia residency program in Guyana. 
  * A two-week bootcamp at the start of residency has been created.  This is meant to introduce incoming residents to the 'nuts and bolts' of resident life and work, as well as introduce them to all the key members of the department
  * experienced, dedicated and accessible Program Director and Assistant Program Director (Drs Reddy and Parrish)

  * a dynamic group of dedicated, enthusiastic, and skilled clinical teachers
  * highly engaged residency program committee with ample resident representation, that meets monthly.  As part of the CBD infrastructure, the Competence Committee comprises strong clinicians interested in Residency Education. 
  * the opportunity to apply to and complete the "Clinical Investigator Program" at McMaster during the Anesthesia residency.
  * resident wellness, well-being and support are a serious consideration of the program. We have resident buddies, faculty mentors, a Wellness Director, an Ombudsman that functions independently of the program, and a host of resources offered by the Post Graduate Office.

Hamilton is a "best kept secret" in Southern Ontario, set on the shores of
Lake Ontario. A vibrant arts scene and abundant hiking and biking trails at
your doorstep will help you keep a balanced lifestyle during your residency
program. As a city, it has a small town feel and is easy to navigate, while
Toronto and its amenities are a short drive or train-ride away. While you are
living here, you will get to know the Farmer's markets (indoor and outdoor);
the fabulous concerts at First Ontario Concert Hall; the Locke Street stores,
restaurants and bars; the Dundas Conservation area with its forests, trails
and wildlife; and all those waterfalls and more waterfalls!

** **

**SOCIAL EVENTS:**



The Anesthesia residency program has an infrastructure which has helped to
build and maintain the collegiality and "family atmosphere" for which we are
known. Some of these events are:

  * Resident retreats (2/year): These are organized by residents and in the past have included curling, white-water river rafting, Canada’s Wonderland, the Canadian National Exhibition, Escape Rooms and pool parties.
  * "Reach for the Top", an annual year-end social event with a cut-throat trivia contest pitting faculty versus residents
  * Journal Clubs, evening events occurring 4x/year
  * Resident Research Exchange Day, an annual event collaborating with Wester University involves presentations, awards, trivia contest and dinner
  * Chair's barbeque, an annual summer event for residents, faculty and their families, to welcome new residents to the program
  * Research Interest Group Dinner meetings, where residents (and others) can present their research proposals and/or results in a collegial environment and receive feedback



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Competency By Design**

As you know, the Royal College has introduced Competency By Design (CBD).
Anesthesia was one of the "early adopters" and we welcomed our first cohort of
CBD residents in July 2017 after several years of preparation.  

**Why CBD?**

[Competence by Design (CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/competence-
design-e), aims to enhance patient care by aligning medical education and
lifelong learning with evolving patient needs and empowering learners to
engage in their education process more fully.  On a practical level, CBD aims
to ensure that residents have achieved specific skills before graduation.  It
is hoped that CBD will address the problem of "failure to fail", where
residents are automatically promoted from rotation to rotation based on time
spent.

**What is CBD?**

CBD will use [time as a
framework](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e)
rather than the basis for progression. It is not anticipated that the training
duration will change for most trainees. Of the Anesthesia residency programs,
all programs are modelling a 5 year residency. In CBD, residency programs is
broken down into [stages](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/documents/cbd/cbd-
competence-continuum-diagram-legal-e.pdf), and each stage has a set of
required competencies to be achieved.

**What will this mean for you, as an Anesthesia resident?**

Programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and
traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College-approved
certification. Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs
will include completing a Royal College examination; however, residents in CBD
programs will also be assessed against program milestones throughout their
training. Within a CBD program, all milestones (documented within an
electronic portfolio) and the Royal College examination must be completed to
achieve certification.

Under CBD, we have worked to define our specialty very precisely.  The
Anesthesia Program Directors across Canada have identified 49 Entrustable
Professional Activities or "EPAs" that we perform as Anesthesiologists.  Each
EPA is allocated to a particular phase of training (see below) and the
resident must be observed to perform the EPA safely and independently multiple
times, by various observers, in order for that EPA to be achieved.  All EPAs
for the training phase must be complete before the resident can progress to
the next phase of training.

**Will I be able to finish residency in 4 years under CBD?**

As described, CBD is not "time-based" however, there is still a basic
framework of expected lengths of time for each of the four phases of the CBD
model (Transition to Discipline, Foundations, Core and Transition to
Practice). All the Anesthesia Residency Programs are modelling an equivalent
length of time as the traditional Anesthesia residency program (5 years).
However, the amount of time spent in various types of rotations has changed
slightly. The Anesthesia Residency Program Directors from all programs worked
along with the Royal College to design a common CBD curriculum for Anesthesia.
Although aspects of local implementation vary, the combined efforts across the
country ensure a high-quality and consistent experience for all Anesthesia
Residents under CBD.   From a practical perspective, the Royal College
examination is offered only once per year, so there is no logistical advantage
(in fact, may be a disadvantage) to complete residency several blocks early.

**Progress through the CBD Curriculum  **

Under CBD, we describe your progression through residency by the four phases,
but also by year (PGY1-5), depending on whether we are describing the
timeframe or the level of clinical performance:

**Transition to Discipline**  (3 months)

**Foundations**   (21 months)

**Core**   (30 months)

**Transition to Practice**   (6 months)

  

**PGY1**

Residents begin with three blocks of Anesthesia in which to complete the
objectives of the "Transition to Discipline" Phase. There is no call done by
TTD residents. There are 3**EPA's** to be achieved in the TTD phase.

After TTD, the resident enters Foundations (at block 4 of the first year based
on typical progress track); they spend 8 blocks on off-service rotations to
complete the objectives (or EPA's) associated with those rotations.  The
template below explains how that 8 blocks is spent:

Internal Medicine (CTU)         8 weeks (consecutive)

Obstetrics & Gynecology        4-weeks  

ICU                                               4-weeks  (Kitchener Waterloo
or St. Catharines)

Pediatric General Surgery       4-weeks

Emergency Medicine               4-weeks



1 block of a surgical rotation:

Thoracic Surgery                    4-weeks

ENT                                       4-weeks

Gen Surgery                           4-weeks



1 block of a pediatrics experience:

Neonatology/Level II             4-weeks

Peds ER                                4-weeks

The PGY1 resident then returns to Anesthesia for the last 2 blocks of their
first year (still in Foundations) and at this time, they will start doing
"Call" (first buddied, then independently.  Foundations continues into the
PGY2 year (it is 18-24 blocks in total) and there are **16 EPAs**  to be
completed in Foundations.   The Anesthesia rotations in Foundations are
"general" (i.e. no subspecialty) rotations, although there is dedicated time
spent in both Pediatric and Obstetrical Anesthesia.

**PGY2**

As mentioned above, as a PGY2, the resident is in the "Foundations" phase of
training and will be based mostly on Anesthesia rotations. During the PGY2
year, you will learn the fundamentals of the practice of Anesthesiology.
Working one-on-one with a faculty member each day, you will be exposed to a
variety of cases and a variety of perspectives. The PGY2 year is spent
rotating through all four teaching hospital sites and the two obstetrical
units. Pediatric anesthesia experience is obtained at McMaster University
Medical Centre.  Residents also take part in the pre-assessment clinics and
the acute pain services affiliated with each hospital site.

Under CBD, the PGY2 year will be be spent working on the goals of the
"Foundations" phase, which are described by the **16 EPAs**  that are
associated with this phase of training.  Although some of the EPA's are
achieved in off-service rotations, most of those off-service rotations are
positioned within the first year.

**PGY3**

Early in the PGY3 year, the resident will transition to the "Core" phase of
training, where there are 2**5 EPAs**  to be achieved, encompassing a broad
range of skills within subspecialty Anesthesia, Critical Care and Medical
specialties. We are able to provide the resident with some options and
flexibility while still ensuring that they will have the Training experiences
(rotations) to achieve those EPA's.  The Core phase of training is 30 months
in duration.  Most of the off-service rotations are positioned within the PGY3
year.  This allows our residents to remain (mostly) on Anesthesia rotations
for the entirety of the final two years of their training.  This past year
with feedback from the residents, the PGY3 curriculum went through a major
overhaul.  Most off service rotations will happen between block 1 & 7 and then
you will return to Anesthesia rotations and a FULL academic day.

Electives in **Research,**  if approved, are scheduled in the PGY3 year,
resulting in one of the "medicine" blocks shifting to the next academic year.
The Guyana elective is also positioned within this year (in February) and
counts as a regular anesthesia rotation.

We are constantly evaluating all of our rotations, based on resident feedback,
to ensure that we are offering the optimal learning experiences for our
residents, making changes to our template accordingly.



Rotation | Rotation Length | Location | Notes  
---|---|---|---  
Resp Medicine | 1 block | JHCC/ HGH | Program Choice based on availability  
ICU | 2 blocks | HGH | 1 East/ 1 West  
ICU | 1 block | JHCC or SJH |    
Echo | 1 block | TEE - HGH | Fly in call  
NORA  | 1 block | HHSC/ SJH | Fly in call  
CCU | 2 Blocks | HGH | Choose either 2 blocks of CCU OR  
OR |   |   |    
CCU | 1 block | HGH | 1 block of CCU and Cardiac Anes  
Cardiac Anes | 1 block | HGH |    
Select combination from below to equal 1 MEDICINE block.    |   |   |    
Nephrology - City Wide Consult ("Acute Kidney Injury") | 1 block | SJH | Fly in call  
Hematology/Transfusion Medicine/Hemostasis  | 1 block | HGH | Fly in call  
ICU | 1 block | Choice of HGH, SJH, JHCC |    
NICU | 1 block | MUMC |    
PICU | 1 block | MUMC |    
Palliative Care | 1 block |   | Fly in call  
Select combination from below to equal 2 blocks.  PLEASE RANK ALL IN ORDER. CAN NOT CHOOSE 2 Community w/ Reg Focus |   |   |    
Research | 1 block | (at discretion of PD) | Fly in call  
Community with Regional Anesthesia focus | 1 block | SJH or Guelph | Call will be done at site. SJH will be given preference unless noted  
Community with Regional Anesthesia focus | 1 block | SJH or Oakville | Call will be done at site. SJH will be given preference unless noted  
Pain | 1 block | MUMC/ SJH | Fly in call Anesthesia. This will be in pace of PGY4 unless requested to do additional  
Addictions | 1 block | Homewood/ Guelph | Homewood/ Guelph  
Perioperative Medicine | 1 block | HGH/ JHCC | fly in call   
  


**PGY4**

In the fourth year, the resident continues on in "Core", now pursuing the EPAs
that focus on subspecialty areas of Anesthesia.  The rotations therefore
include:

  * cardiac anesthesia
  * neurosurgical anesthesia
  * pediatric anesthesia (complex)
  * high-risk obstetrical anesthesia
  * regional anesthesia
  * chronic pain management
  * thoracic anesthesia





**PGY5**

The final year of training is a general clinical year where the resident
learns to embody his or her roles as "consultant".  The resident will spend
most of this year in the "Transition to Practice" phase. The **5 EPAs
**associated with this phase focus on the developing the Intrinsic CanMeds
roles (Manager/Leader, Health Advocate, Communicator, Collaborator, etc) and
using those skills along with the well-developed Medical Expert role.  Senior
residents begin the experience of practicing more independently, though always
with the "safety net" of a dedicated faculty supervisor. Opportunities for
further experience in subspecialty anesthesia, research, or other scholarly
activity (such as further study within the Clinical Investigator's Program)
are readily available for the resident thriving within the program's baseline
requirements.

**Community/ Elective Experience**

According to Royal College requirements, on block of Community Anesthesia
rotations is mandatory.  Three additional community/electives are also
available to residents in good standing and can be done in different stages of
training.  Residents use these opportunities to explore subspecialties they
may be interested in pursuing or work in different physical settings to
enhance their long-term career goals.  

**Academic Sessions**

Residents at McMaster participate in weekly academic sessions.  Faculty
members facilitate tutorials, which involve subject material targeted to the
resident's level of traiing.  Residents receive objectives and references in
advance, and sessions are highly interactive. Below, the level-specific
academic programs are described.

At McMaster, Anesthesia residents enjoy a FULL ACADEMIC DAY during the on-
service years (PGY2, 4, 5).  Academic day activities include academic teaching
sessions and our simulation curriculum.  There is also a significant amount of
unscheduled time that allows for more independent study time for PGY2, PGY4
and PGY5 residents.  

**PGY1's**  start their academic program with an intensive summer "boot camp"
which involves a full academic day featuring interactive teaching sessions on
key topics. In addition to the entire academic day, the PGY1's receive
extensive simulator training throughout the summer. In the fall, the PGY1s
join the PGY2's for the academic sessions in the afternoon, so they will
encounter much of this fundamental material twice, once as PGY1's and again as
PGY2's.  The academic half-day for PGY1 is Thursday afternoon.  During the
PGY1 year, residents will be provided with an introductory course on research
methodology; the main assignment associated with this course will be to design
a research protocol, which the resident can then use as their required
research project, if desired.

**PGY2**  sessions cover the basics of clinical and theoretical anesthesia,
physiology, and pharmacology, as well as the instruction of the intrinsic
CanMEDS roles. The academic day for PGY2 is Thursday.  There is a 6-week
Regional Anesthesia module during the winter; residents participate in this
module in both PGY1 and 2 years.

**PGY3**  curriculum primarily incorporates critical care and internal
medicine topics, as they relate to anesthesia. The academic half-day for PGY3
is Wednesday afternoon.  There is a hands-on Regional Anesthesia refresher in
the anatomy lab during the summer (with PGY4's).  Two other special workshops
that are provided for PGY3's and PGY4s:   Ultrasound (POCUS) workshop and the
"Can't intubate, Can't ventilate" (CICV- Surgical airway) workshop. From block
8 - 13 PGY3s will receive a full AD as the beginning preparation to the early
Fall examinations.

**PGY4**  curriculum focuses on topics in subspecialty anesthesia, medicine
and surgery. The academic day for PGY4 is Wednesday.  The PGY4's also
encounter the three critical hands-on workshops they first received as PGY3s:
Regional Anesthesia, POCUS and CICV.  

**PGY5**  curriculum targets the material required for the Royal College
written and oral examinations.  After the written Fall examination, there is a
planned Oral Exams Prep Curriculum from October to April. Commencing after the
Spring exam, the curriculum will continue with a Transition to Practice
scheduled. In the weeks that no session is planned, the residents will work as
junior consultants in the clinical setting.

**Exam Preparation**

McMaster Anesthesia Residency program residents have an excellent track record
at the Royal College examinations. We have had an outstanding success rate for
the past 4 years, **for both CMG and IMG candidates.**  Our success rate
primarily reflects our vital clinical and academic programs. In addition, we
have a structured program to prepare residents for the Royal College
examinations that includes:

  * The core curriculum in PGY2, PGY3, and PGY4 is tailored to the National Curriculum. The Royal College asserts that all written and oral exam questions are taken from the National Curriculum
  * Formal program oral examinations are held twice yearly for PGY2, PGY4 and PGY5 anesthesia residents
  * In the PGY5 year, oral exam preparation formalized with a structured roster with various staff members
  * The PGY5 residents also organize informal practice oral exams with different McMaster Anesthesia faculty throughout the year
  * The PGY5 residents participate in practice examinations with other institutions that is arranged through a committee of national PDs 
  * PGY 2 and PGY4 residents write the Anesthesia Knowledge test (AKT)
  * The program generates in-house MCQ exams three times a year, for all levels of training

**Simulator Training**

The Simulation Program at McMaster University is one of the many strengths of
our residency training program. It allows the Anesthesia resident to teach and
learn in the high-fidelity Simulation Centre.  One of the differences at
McMaster is that the resident performs the simulation scenarios independently
(i.e. not as a collaborative group or watching others).  In general, residents
at McMaster will complete approximately 15 different simulation scenarios by
the end of residency. Five of these are the scenarios produced by the National
Working Group (CanNasc) and CBD residents must pass each of these CanNasc
scenarios before being licensed to practice Anesthesia. Some of our simulation
sessions involve "Inter-disciplinary" settings, collaborating with residents
from OB, ENT or ER. All simulation scenarios are run by trained faculty for
anesthesia residents.  

Residents teach medical students during the Anesthesia Clerkship rotations
using the resources in the Simulation Centre.  

**Resident Research**

To complete the training program, residents are required to complete a
scholarly project.  This requirement can be a quality assurance project (chart
review), systematic review, meta-analysis, questionnaire study or clinical
trial.  PGY1 residents complete an introductory course in health research
methodology.  Protected time can be made available for research activity as a
research elective, usually in the PGY3 year.  This project allows residents to
grow in their academic ability and allows them to fulfill the Royal College
Anesthesiology Objectives of Training and CanMEDS competencies requirements.

The Department of Anesthesia is able to provide support and assist residents
with their projects.  Available to assist is:

  * a full-time research coordinator 
  * an associate professor/research methodologist and biostatistician
  * a research associate in biostatistics

Residents receive funding to present their results at an academic meeting.

Funding may be available to residents for graduate degree studies in any field
through the Department of Anesthesia.



**Resident Exchange Day**

This event is held each year with the Western University Anesthesia Residency
Program, with the host site alternating between the two universities.
Research and academic projects are presented and judged.  A friendly trivia
competition usually occurs during lunch, and award presentations follow the
presentations.

** **

**Facilities**

The Anesthesia Department has a bright, centralized space for the residency
program's operations, including a large conference room.  This space is
located at the McMaster University Medical Centre, where you will have your
academic sessions.  The program administrator and program directors have their
offices in the same vicinity.  Most anesthesia textbooks can be accessed on-
line through the main university library. Residents have meetings in their
conference room or study together.

The Health Sciences Library is on-site at McMaster Medical Centre.
Additionally, hospital libraries are located at the Hamilton General Hospital,
Juravinski Hospital, and St. Joseph's Healthcare.  All are accessible to the
residents.

Computer access and Wi-Fi is available at all clinical sites and residents are
registered with Library access, which provides a comprehensive list of online
medical journals and resources.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Training Sites**

The McMaster University Anesthesia Residency Program comprises of four
clinical teaching units.  These units are located at:

  * St. Joseph's Healthcare
  * Hamilton General Hospital
  * Juravinski Hospital and Cancer Centre
  * McMaster University Medical Centre

The latter three sites are all part of "Hamilton Health Sciences".

St. Joseph's Healthcare (SJH) is the regional centre for respiratory, renal,
and head and neck disease and houses a busy obstetrical unit (an average of
3,000 deliveries per year).

The Hamilton Health Sciences' General campus is the regional centre for the
cardiac and vascular, neurosurgical and neuroscience, spine, burn, and trauma
programs.

The Hamilton Health Sciences' Juravinski campus is a regional centre for the
arthroplasty, hepato-billary, colorectal, and oncology programs and is
affiliated with the regional cancer care centre.

The McMaster campus of Hamilton Health Sciences (MUMC) contains the regional
high-risk obstetrical unit, an extensive adult ambulatory surgery program, and
rapidly growing pediatric and neonatal programs.

Chronic Pain care is provided at both SJH and MUMC sites for both adults and
pediatric patients.

These clinical resources offer the anesthesia resident unlimited opportunities
to obtain the fundamentals of anesthesia, as well as explore areas of
subspecialty interest and scholarly activity in both education and research.
One of the strengths of our program is that our residents get OB and pediatric
experience during many of their rotations, not during dedicated subspecialty
rotation. The repetitive exposure makes it easier to develop confidence in
these key areas of practice.



**Outreach in International Health: An opportunity for McMaster Anesthesia
Residents**

Dr. A. Dauphin, an anesthesiologist at St. Joseph's Healthcare and McMaster
faculty member, has provided extensive work and teaching in Haiti over the
past two decades.  Anesthesia residents from Haiti periodically perform
rotations in Anesthesia in Hamilton.  This has been placed on hold currently
due to the instable political situation.

Dr. S. Ttendo, an anesthesiologist in Kampala, Uganda, holds a faculty
position with the McMaster Department of Anesthesia.  Dr. Ttendo supervises a
four-week elective in Uganda for one McMaster anesthesia resident each year.
The Department of Anesthesia at St. Joseph's Healthcare funds the Uganda
elective.

In 2016, McMaster University formally initiated a collaboration with the
Anesthesia Residency Program in Guyana.  It currently hosts 2 residents from
Guyana per year for 4 blocks each. Dr. Joel Hamstra is responsible for
managing this initiative.  

The program is in the final stages of creating an elective anesthesia block in
an Indigenous Community within Ontario.

* * *

# Additional Information

**Additional Information**

Anesthesia is a rewarding specialty involving knowledge-based and procedural
skills, practiced in a team environment. The practice of anesthesia provides
interpersonal contact with particularly vulnerable patients needing
compassionate care.

The Anesthesia program at McMaster offers a breadth of clinical education that
covers the full array of anesthesia subspecialties in and out of the operating
rooms. Residents who aspire to seek more advanced training after graduation
will be well-prepared to seize such opportunities. Opportunities exist for
further training in areas of sub-specialty Anesthesia practice as well as
Critical Care Medicine, Trauma, Palliative Care, Acute and Chronic Pain
Management and Research Methodology.  A fellowship in Transfusion Medicine has
been developed by the Hematology Department, with Anesthesia training as an
accepted prerequisite.  Equally, residents who wish to pursue a community-
based practice will have a solid clinical foundation on which to commence
independent practice.

There are abundant opportunities for residents to grow and engage more deeply
in patient care, such as through undergraduate medical education, simulation,
or participation in developing protocols that enhance patient safety,
efficiency or interdepartmental collaboration.

The Department of Anesthesia at McMaster University is a collegial and
cohesive department that values and promotes professionalism.  It enjoys an
excellent track record for resident success in both Royal College examinations
and (more importantly) subsequent clinical practice. Our goals will remain to
provide a high standard of education in a collegial environment while
endeavouring to apply new technology and educational practices to improve the
e learner's educational experience.

* * *

# FAQ

**FAQ**

**1) What is the call like?**

Residents do call at each of the four clinical sites. At the JHCC, they cover
daytime weekends only (8 am- 5 pm) and none of the weeknights. At all the
other sites, (HGH, McMaster and SJH), residents do 24 hour call during the
week and do "split call" on the weekends (8 am- 5 pm shift and a 5 pm-8 am
shift).  The weekday shifts work around the protected academic days for all
residents. On average, residents do 3 weekend shifts a month (no more than 2
weekends) and 2 weekday shifts, totaling 5 calls overall for the month.
Anesthesia residents are always off at 8 am post-call.  At the end of PGY1,
when you return to Anesthesia rotations in May, you will do several buddied
calls before doing solo call.  At the HGH, residents do not do solo call until
they are halfway through the PGY2 year, again, after several buddy calls. The
reason for this is the higher-level demands of the airway management of the
trauma patient.

Most programs have eliminated 24 hour call entirely.  However, most staff
positions involve 24 hour call.  At McMaster, we feel it is essential that
residency prepare you for practice.  We also think that there is more to
wellness than the length of the call shift, such as the number of calls in
total, the length of the non-call days and the amount of academic time given.
It is interesting to note that in the US, 24 hour calls have been "pre-
approved" again and a recent (March 17, 2017) NEJM article explores that
topic.  It's not a simple issue and it impacts on patient care in some
paradoxical ways.  

We track all the residents' call while on Anesthesia on a spreadsheet in real
time, which is shared amongst all the residents and used to ensure equity in
call distribution.

Call during off-service rotations is specific to the service. During several
of the "medicine year" rotations, Anesthesia residents do Anesthesia "fly-in"
call, thus maintaining a connection with their home program.



**2) How long are the workdays?**

Anesthesia is not a "lifestyle specialty". We work unsociable hours and
sometimes our days are unpredictable in terms of when they will end. As a
resident, you will be involved in lists of all durations. We have lists that
end at 3:30 pm, 4:00, 4:30, 5:00 and 6:00 pm. The cardiac rooms are booked
until 7 pm. You will be assigned to all types of lists during your residency
and during the PGY4 year (subspecialty rotations), the frequency of long days
is greater.  Unless on call or subspecialty, it would be unusual not to be
finished by 5 pm and often quite a bit earlier.



**3) How much do I get to control my learning, as a resident?**

At McMaster Anesthesia, the residents are assigned to lists done by the "admin
resident" at each site, who is usually a PGY4. The admin resident also
constructs the call schedule. Part of the admin resident's role is to be in
dialogue with the other residents at the site to ensure that their learning
needs are being met. PGY5's have more input into their list selection as they
are keen to round out their residency and ensure a balanced exposure to all
types of patients and cases.  We have a fair, transparent online process where
residents can request vacation time or days off.

There are many other ways in which residents have control over their learning.
Our academic curriculum is very interactive and is optimized through self-
directed learning. Research opportunities are myriad, and almost any interest
can be explored. There are many optional rotations to explore in the off-
service years as well as while in Anesthesia, including the Uganda elective.

Finally, many of our residents explore alternative learning programs towards
the end of their residencies, through the Critical Care Medicine Program or
Chronic Pain residency program (both are two year programs that can overlap
for one year with the PGY5 year of Anesthesia) or through the Clinical
Investigator Program.



**4) Are there opportunities to teach as a resident?**

Absolutely!  Residents are involved in teaching clerks throughout residency.
Residents participate in the clerkship curriculum, where they teach didactic
sessions and facilitate sessions with task trainers and our standardized
simulation scenarios. On average, each resident would spend approximately 2
days per year teaching within the clerkship program. As well, the clerks spend
one night "on call" and are attached to the anesthesia resident for that
experience.

Some residents chose to participate in teaching "Clinical Skills" to
Undergraduate medical students. Finally, the McMaster Medical School
(Undergrad) has an active "Anesthesia Interest Group" which organizes weekend
workshops with volunteer Anesthesia residents and faculty as facilitators.

Residents also have the opportunity to develop their presentation skills
through their Journal Club presentations, Research Exchange Day presentation
and mandatory presentations at academic half days and rounds. For example,
PGY4 residents "teach" the PGY3 summer academic half-day curriculum along with
a faculty facilitator.



**5) Are there opportunities to be involved in committees?**

Yes! Each PGY year has a resident representative on the resident advisory
council, which sits on the Residency Program Committee. There are also many
other committee opportunities through the postgrad office. Amongst our
residents we have had PARO past-president and several PARO board members.



**6) Do you have a Mentorship Program?**

Yes, you will be assigned a faculty mentor when you arrive. You will have a
mentor for the full five years of your program; during the early stages of
residency, they will help you get oriented, and as you progress through the
program they will be there to provide advice in areas such as exam
preparation, electives, fellowships, and career decisions. We will also you
assign you a more senior resident "buddy". Many residents naturally find many
other "informal mentors" as they move through the program.  One thing to be
aware of is that each resident also has an academic advisor (AA).  The AA
fulfills a different role than the mentor. The AA tracks your academic
progress and ensures that you are on track regarding the achievement of your
EPA's, in particular.



**7) Why do your residents do all their "medicine" rotations during one year,
rather than breaking it up a bit?**

I suppose ,"We've always done it this way" is not a satisfying answer?  OK,
well, we think there are several benefits to the way we have ordered our
rotations.  For one, once you finish that PGY3 medicine year, you are on
Anesthesia rotations for the rest of your residency, so you can focus
exclusively on your core material as you hit the home stretch of exam
preparation.  Also, as a PGY4, you encounter all your Anesthesia subspecialty
rotations, so you have the equivalent "medicine" background experience in
order to optimize your rotation.  For example, when you do Cardiac Anesthesia,
you have already done CV-ICU; When you do Thoracic Anesthesia, you have
already done Respirology and gained  experience in bronchoscopy; when you do
High-Risk Peds, you have already done your NICU (or PICU) rotation) etc. etc.
Finally, because we offer a FULL ACADEMIC DAY to our residents (which doesn't
apply when they are off-service), by keeping the off-service rotations bunched
into one year, it allows us to plan the academic time more coherently for each
PGY cohort. (If some of your group was getting a full day, and some a half
day, it would be difficult to avoid having some residents miss part of the
day).   Other programs who only offer an academic half-day throughout the
entire residency (or until the end of PGY4) do not have these logistical
considerations of where to place the off-service rotations.

Like all aspects of our program, this issue is on the table for discussion and
we are constantly seeking input from our residents. Recently, when I asked the
PGY4's if we should look at deconstructing the "medicine year" to intersperse
the rotations rather than having them occur as a one-year block, they were
unanimous in saying that the block of rotations is preferable.  As it stands,
most residents have one or two Anesthesia rotations during their PGY3 year and
that, as well as the buddy call, helps them stay in touch with their home
base.



**8)  What do your residents do once they graduate?**

Great question!  Since candidates always ask this question, we started to
track it.  The left column shows what the each resident did for their first
year after graduating and the right hand column shows their permanent staff
position. As you can see, McMaster Grads have no difficulty securing excellent
fellowship positions leading to academic positions, or jobs in the community.

2017 |    
---|---  
Cardiac Felloswship TGH. Faculty U of T | TGH staff position, Cardiac Anesthesia Faculty U of T  
Regional Fellowship Toronto. Fauclty U of T  
OB Fellowship - Halifax. Faculty Dalhousie | Dalhousie Staff position   
Thoracic Fellowship - TGH. Faculty SJH | SJH Staff position  
OB Fellowship - MUMC. Faculty HHSC & Oakville | Oakville Trafalgar staff position  
Locums | Kitchener Waterloo staff position  
Cardiac Fellowship - HGH. Faculty KW and SJH | Kitchener Waterloo staff position Cardiac Anesthesia/ICU. SJH staff starting July 2019  
Faculty U of T |    
2018 |    
locums |    
Clinical scholar HHS. Faculty HHSC |    
staff position - Humber River Hospital |    
locums |    
Neuroanesthesia  \- Northwestern (Chicago)  
Pediatrics  Fellowship - Toronto Sick Kids. Dfaculty HHSC  
Critical Care Fellowship McMaster. Faculty HHSC  
SJH locum |    
OB fellowship Ottawa  |    
Fellowships completed prior to residency. HHS staff- mixed adult pediatrics provider | HHS staff- mixed adult pediatrics provider  
  |    
  |    
2019 |    
Fellowship - Out of Country |    
Fellowship - Mount Sinai. Faculty U of T |    
Perioperative Fellowship - California. Faculty HHSC  
Clinical Scholar - McMaster. Faculty HHSC  
Thoracic Fellowship - Toronto. Fauclty HHSC  
  |    
  |    
  |    
2020 Grads |    
 Critical Care fellowship:  McMaster  \- Faculty SJH |    
 Critical Care fellowship: McMaster Faculty U of T |    
Cardiac Anesthesia fellowship: McMaster Fauclty HHSC |    
Neuroanesthesia fellowship: Western (London). Faculty HHSC |    
Clinical Scholar: St Joseph’s Hospital (Hamilton). Faculty SJH |    
Regional Anesthesia fellowship: Vancouver. Faculty SJH |    
Regional Anesthesia fellowship: Toronto |    
Locum: St Catherine’s Faculty Calgary |    
Chronic Pain fellowship: California (USA). Faculty USA |    
  |    
2021 Grads |    
Cardiac Fellowship London, ON. Faculty in Saudi Arabia  
Clinical Scholar  SJH - Faculty SJH |    
Cardiac Fellowship, McMaster, staff at Oakville Trafalgar  
Fellowship, Credit Valley. Faculty Trillium  
Staff at Oakville |    
Fellowship London, ON. Faculty HHSC |    
Fellowship, Palliative Care Mac. Faculty HHSC  
Clinical Scholar  SJH. Faculty SJH |    
  |    
2022 Grads |    
Sunnybrook Fellowship, OB | Then HHS  
St. Mikes Regional Fellowship | Then SJH  
BC Fellowship |    
Clinical Scholar  SJH |    
Sunnybrook Fellowship, OB/ Regional |    
  |    
2023 Grads |    
Pediatric Anesthesia Fellowship in UBC |    
Hematology/Blood Transfusion Fellowship at HHS |    
Regional Fellowship in Toronto |    
Regional Fellowship in UBC |    
Perioperative Medicine Fellowship at HHS |    
Clinical Scholar at HHS |    
Clinical Scholar in Toronto |    
  






**9) I don't know anyone in Hamilton. Will I feel at home in the program? In
what ways do we interact with other residents outside of the operating room?**

We have residents from British Columbia and Nova Scotia and many provinces in
between. Our residents are a tight-knit, social group who are very supportive
of each other. See the "program highlights" section for some of the structured
social elements.  In addition, many residents chose to collaborate on research
projects. Residents get to know each other well through their academic half
day program, which brings them together each week in small groups. As well,
residents have three retreats per year, scheduled during academic days.

PGY1 residents are assigned a "resident buddy" to act as an informal mentor.

You will also get to know our faculty, many of whom host social events or have
the residents over to help with exam prep, to celebrate successes, or just to
socialize.



**10) Where do residents in Hamilton live?**

We have residents who commute from as far as Toronto or Woodstock, but most
live in and around Hamilton. The hospitals in Hamilton are situated in the
four corners of the city, each a 10-15 minute drive from any other. Many
residents chose to live near McMaster, in either Westdale or West Hamilton.
Another popular area would be near St. Joe's, in the area of Bay, Caroline,
Bold, and Herkimer streets.  A number of residents live in the area around
Locke Street South. From here, you’re just steps to great cafés and
restaurants, the grocery store, gyms and parks
([http://lockestreetshops.com](http://lockestreetshops.com/)). It’s a 10
minute walk to St. Joe’s, and just under 10 minute drive to each of the other
3 hospitals. Nearby communities of Dundas and Ancaster are popular with
families as is Westdale.

We have several faculty who live in or around Toronto.  Toronto is a great
city, and one if its best attributes is that it's not too far a drive to
Hamilton.  However, most would find that too far of a commute for the
lifestyle of a resident.



**11) How sketchy is Hamilton really?**

Every city will have those sketchy areas and Hamilton is no different. The
Hamilton General is in close proximity to those less desirable areas.
Fortunately, residents are almost always coming and going during daylight
hours. Most of the city is quite lovely.  

Hamilton is currently undergoing a boom: the city has a rapidly growing
economy, the downtown core is being revitalized with an influx of new
businesses and condos, a new GO station with all day service to Toronto, and
dedicated bike lanes (along with a new bike share program) are being built
throughout the city. There is a burgeoning restaurant, bar and night life
scene happening at the moment.

There is no shortage of activities in Hamilton. If you like the outdoors, you
have direct access to the Bruce trail and hundreds of kilometres of hiking and
cycling trails. There is sailing and rowing on the lake and rock climbing
nearby. Hamilton also has a vibrant arts and music scene, with lots of
festivals throughout the summer.  There is a wonderful year-round Farmer's
market in the downtown mall (Jackson Square) as well as outdoor Farmer's
markets in Dundas and Ancaster seasonally.

One of our (now) PGY2's, who moved to Hamilton from a nearby, larger city says
it best: "Life in Hamilton and surrounding area is just awesome and if I have
to choose one thing I personally like SO much is that traffic has never been
an issue. I feel thankful that I don't need to trade struggling with traffic
for a strong residency training. Where else can you get that?"



**12) Are there gyms at the hospitals?**

HGH, McMaster and JHCC all have Fitness Centres on site as part of their
"Shine" Wellness Centres (you can check it out online). St. Joe's has a
wellness centre that offers spin and yoga classes.



**12) Is there a mountain in Hamilton?**

No, there is not. Sorry.  Rumor has it that it was named by a surgeon,
confirming the 'mountain out of a molehill' adage.



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27039?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27039