#  University of Ottawa - Nuclear Medicine - Ottawa  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on December 06, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1 click here

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Alireza Khatami  

Address Nuclear Medicine  
501 Smyth Road  
Ottawa, ON, KIH 8L6  
Ottawa, Ontario, K1H 8L6  

Work  613-737-8528

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Program description
](https://www.thinkottawamedicine.ca/nuclear-medicine/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Alireza Khatami

Title: Residency and Fellowship Program Director

Email: akhatami@toh.ca

Phone: 613-737-8528

  

Name: Bilquis Hyder Ali

Title: Program administrator

Email: bhyderali@toh.on.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

**All candidates must meet the Ontario Criteria of Eligibility** found here:
<http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-criteria/provincial-
criteria/ontario/>

**MCCQE1 examination results** : All residents will be required to disclose
their MCCQE1 examination results upon entry into any of the University of
Ottawa's training programs. The purpose of this disclosure is to allow for
resources to be provided to the few residents who would benefit from extra
support early in their residency in an effort to maximize their success.

**Failure to meet or provide proof of any of the stated requirements may
result in an applicant’s file not being reviewed or removed from the Rank
Order List.**

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

All candidates must meet the Ontario criteria of eligibility.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  * Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  * Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  * Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  * Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Conditionally required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

MCCQE Part 1 result will be reviewed, if available.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

At least three reference letters are required. Clinical references are
preferred from physicians who have directly supervised the candidate for at
least one month. Letter from a senior resident is not accepted.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter will be required summarizing the candidate's background and
indicating reasons for selecting nuclear medicine.

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

The selection committee will meet during the file review period to examine the
completed applications.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 28, 2025
  * January 30, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be schedule on the
following dates: January 28 and 30, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Individual applicants will be
interviewed by the members of the Selection Committee, virtually, via MS
Teams.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Mature candidates with excellent communication and interpersonal skill as well
as a good academic record and an interest in nuclear medicine will be
favourably looked upon.  An aptitude for basic sciences (physics, radiation
biology, computers) is preferable.



## Program goals

The overall goal of the training Program is to provide a learning environment
in nuclear medicine such that a resident will gain sufficient knowledge of his
subject to be able to practice nuclear medicine safely. It is hoped to produce
nuclear medicine specialists who will be able to function as valued
consultants to their colleagues.  

Specific educational objectives concerning individual portions of the program
are set up to help ensure that adequate teaching is obtained and maintained by
regular feedback mechanisms. The program will contain a broad and detailed
experience in nuclear medicine and graduated responsibility throughout, such
that the resident will act as a junior consultant at the end of their program
of training.

## Selection process goals

Strong interpersonal communication skills and collaboration skills are highly
desirable.  Also, attributes such as professionalism, positive attitude,
strong work ethic and passion for the nuclear medicine specialty, will make
the applicant stand out.

Knowledge of basic science  in nuclear medicine, including physics,
radiobiology and radiopharmacy will also be considered.

Applicant's understanding of basic computer science in nuclear medicine will
also be seen favourably.

## File review process

Review team composition : Program Director, Assistant Program Director and 2-3
nuclear medicine staff physicians.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  
Depending on the number of applications received.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Background, relevant knowledge and experience, any research interest, publications, honours and awards.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  If any in Nuclear Medicine, diagnostic imaging, oncology, cardiology, emergency medicine.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  MCCQE1   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Hobbies, interest in social activities.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership skill is an important competency and will be reviewed.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  MSPRs will be reviewed.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Yes, personal letters will be reviewed   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  3 letters of references will be reviewed.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Yes, any research, publications, will be reviewed   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Yes, transcripts will be reviewed.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Although not required, elective in Nuclear Medicine and/or Diagnostic Imaging
will be considered an asset.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Yes   
Collegiality |  Yes   
Communication skills |  Yes   
Health advocacy |  Yes   
Interest in the discipline |  Yes   
Interest in the program |  Yes   
Leadership skills |  Yes   
Professionalism |  Yes   
Scholarly activities |  Yes   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The University of Ottawa Nuclear Medicine Residency Program was approved by
the Royal College in 2010. At inception, it was a five-year program, which
included one-year rotating internship including internal medicine, three years
of nuclear medicine and one year of research and elective rotations. The three
years of nuclear medicine included rotations in general nuclear medicine,
nuclear cardiology, cross-sectional imaging in diagnostic radiology, PET/CT,
pediatric nuclear medicine.

The Program transitioned to Competence by Design (CBD) in July 2020, and had
its first CBD graduate, through the dual-certification training stream, in
August 2022.  Dual-certification training is no longer being offered and the
program is offering only the full nuclear medicine training.

The Ottawa Hospital has a unique collaboration with the lsologic Innovative
Radiopharmaceuticals Ltd., which is located within the Ottawa Hospital. This
will allow trainees to have direct exposure to a commercial radiopharmacy.
Affiliation to McGill University is arranged for the PET/CT rotation to allow
the trainees to gain greater exposure to PET/CT. Affiliation in pediatric PET
is arranged with the University of Toronto and the University of Montreal for
the Pediatric rotation. The trainees will have opportunity to rotate at the
University of Ottawa Heart Institute for the Nuclear Cardiology rotation,
including PET Cardiac training. The University of Ottawa Heart Institute is
one of the most active nuclear cardiology centers in Canada. Its research
teams are world renowned and cardiology fellows and post-graduate students
from around the world are rotating in the department. Research opportunities
are vast with the nuclear cardiology team which is well established with large
grants and numerous publications yearly. Research in general nuclear medicine
is strongly encouraged with the assistance, if needed, of the staff physicians
and the Division's physicist. If desired. the trainee could rotate in
community hospital and to a private nuclear medicine clinic as some of the
nuclear medicine physicians hold privileges in these centers in and around
Ottawa.

While the Residency is offered in English only, the Ottawa Hospital does
operate as a fully bilingual institution.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

This residency program is nominally 5 years depending on trainee’s progress
through the CBD stream.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

During the Transition to Discipline stage, the trainees will rotate in Nuclear
Medicine, and there will be several off-service rotations, for e.g., internal
medicine, cardiology, emergency, surgery, respirology, etc.,  to fulfil the
Royal College requirements.

In the subsequent training stages (Foundations, Core and Transition to
Practice), they will spend time training in core nuclear medicine with
rotations in general nuclear medicine, radionuclide therapy, nuclear
cardiology, PET/CT, diagnostic radiology.

Research is an integral part of the training program and in the Core stage,
trainees are given one morning off each week to work on their projects.

Elective rotations can be requested in the Core and the Transition to Practice
stages.  While not guaranteed, every effort will be made to accommodate such
requests.

As the theranostic part of nuclear medicine is growing, there is a very well-
established weekly consultation clinic, where trainees get involved in the
patient treatment aspect of nuclear medicine with radioactive material.

For further information about the training stages in for Nuclear Medicine,
please refer to the Royal College website: [Information by Discipline (IBD)
(royalcollege.ca)](https://www.royalcollege.ca/en/standards-and-
accreditation/information-by-discipline?specialty=royal-
college%3Aibd%2Fspecialty%2Fnuclear-medicine&subspecialty=&special-
program=&afc-diploma=)

Affiliation with McGill University is arranged for additional rotation in
PET/CT. Affiliation with the University of Toronto and the University of
Montreal is arranged for the rotation in pediatric nuclear medicine.

###  

### RESEARCH

Trainees are encouraged to participate in at least one research project during
their training. Suggestion for suitable research topics or ongoing advice and
assistance is provided by the research coordinator, staff physician or the
scientist. The trainees are required to present their research projects during
the research rounds. They are also encouraged to present their research topic
at the annual Trainees' Research Day.

The presentation of research projects by trainees at local, national and
international meetings is encouraged. In addition, trainees are strongly
encouraged to submit their results to postgraduate medical education awards
competitions available each year.

###  

### TEACHING SESSIONS AND ROUNDS  

Academic half day (AHD) sessions occur weekly for which trainees are excused
from their clinical duties to attend teaching. Didactic teaching generally
consists of a basic science lecture and a clinical lectures. Every alternate
year, a procedure-based skills teaching event is held during the AHD at the
University of Ottawa Skills and Simulation Centre, which provides opportunity
to learn from the experts in managing real-life scenarios.

 Basic sciences teaching covers biennial courses on Physics, Radiobiology and
Radiopharmacy; these courses are run by the internal/external subject matter
experts.  At the end of these courses an exam is held and debrief sessions are
organized to provide feedback.

 Radiation Safety course is also offered every other year during the AHD in
collaboration with the Radiation and Laser Safety Department at the Ottawa
Hospital.

 Interesting case rounds are held weekly where interesting cases are presented
and discussed by the trainees and moderated by the faculty members. City wide
Nuclear Medicine Grand Rounds are held every month from September to June;
trainees, staff physicians, as well as visiting professors present at these
rounds. Morbidity and Mortality Rounds are typically held four times a year
for the purpose of quality assurance and teaching. Journal Club is held every
four times/year (except for summer months) where presentations are made on the
journal articles selected by the trainees and the faculty. Research Rounds are
also held typically 4 times per year with an objective to update on the
progress of the research projects, critique methods and findings and to
discuss future research direction.

In addition, trainees also attend the Multidisciplinary Cancer Conferences
(MCC) when they are on Consults, Treatment and MCC (CTM) rotations, as well as
when on their home rotations in general nuclear medicine and PET/CT.
Participation at these rounds provides them exposure to interact with
physicians from other disciplines and partake in discussions on diagnosis and
treatment plans from the nuclear medicine perspective.  Some of MCC they will
attend are, Gastrointestinal rounds, Genitourinary rounds, Breast rounds,
Melanoma rounds, Lymphoma rounds, Endocrine rounds, Thoracic rounds, etc.

Trainees are also invited to the Nuclear Medicine Patient Safety and Quality
Improvement (PSQC) meetings; this allows them to get involved in the patient
safety matters and the quality improvement initiatives.  

###  

* * *

# Training Sites

**University of Ottawa Heart Institute**

The nuclear cardiology department at the University of Ottawa Heart Institute
performs a large number of nuclear scans including myocardial perfusion scan,
radionuclide ventriculogram, cardiac PET with fluorodeoxyglucose, ammonia,
rubidium. More than five thousand scans are performed annually. Three dual-
head SPECT cameras, one SPECT/CT, one solid-state detector camera, one PET and
one PET/CT are operating. A microSPECT and a microPET are also used for
research. The research is very active with a very successful world-renowned
research team. Cardiology fellows from around the world are rotating in the
nuclear cardiology department.

**The Ottawa Hospital  **

The Nuclear Medicine department is a busy, moderate to large sized Nuclear
Medicine department that sees approximately 18000 patients per year. More than
eight thousand general nuclear medicine cases are performed yearly across the
General and Civic Campuses. Approximately 5000 BMDs are performed at the
Riverside Campus. PET/CT yearly caseload is over 3000 studies.



**The Ottawa Hospital, General Campus**

The General Campus is a large department with two SPECT/CT cameras, three
SPECT cameras, one single head camera, one PET/CT. A substantial portion of
cases includes oncology cases, but other cases such as cardiology, nephrology,
endocrinology, rheumatology, infectious, post-surgical, neurology cases are
also performed. Bone densitometry is also performed remotely but supervised
and interpreted at the General campus. The general nuclear medicine rotations
are offered at that site.  PET/CT scans are performed for main oncologic
indications in close relative to the Ottawa Cancer Center. Additional PET/CT
exposure is offered in a specific rotation at the McGill University hospitals.

**The Ottawa Hospital, Civic Campus**

The department is a busy nuclear medicine department with one dual -head SPECT
cameras and two SPECT/CT cameras. The lsologic Radiopharmaceuticals Inc.,
commercial radiopharmacy, is located within the nuclear medicine department.
Cases are performed include infection, rheumatology, endocrinology, oncology,
surgery, neurology.

The general nuclear medicine rotation is offered at The Ottawa Hospital
General and the Civic sites.  

**Toronto Hospital for Sick Children**

The three-month pediatric rotation is done at the Toronto Hospital for Sick
Children. 2500 scans are performed annually,1200 pediatric bone mineral
densities, and two hundred pediatric PET/CT scans.

**Montreal General Hospital and Jewish General Hospital**

To provide additional exposure to PET outside of the current Ontario Ministry
of Health indications, a three-month PET/CT rotation is offered at the:

  * McGill University Hospitals. The Montreal General Hospital and the Jewish General Hospital have one PET/CT unit each and perform two thousand cases annually! each. Most of the scans are fluorodeoxyglucose PET/CT for oncology. 

  * CSSSG Hospital de Gatineau, affiliated with McGill University (for French speaking training) 

**CHU Sainte-Justine Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Mere Enfant (CHU Sainte-
Justine Mother and Child University Hospital Center)**.  

CHU St.-Justine Hospital Centre is affiliated with the University of Montreal.
Pediatric Nuclear Medicine rotations are also offered for French speaking
trainees.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26619?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26619