#  University of British Columbia - Family Medicine - Surrey-South Fraser  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 08, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 7

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Joshua Greggain  

Address Faculty of Medicine – Department of Family Practice  
300-5950 University Boulevard  
Vancouver, British Columbia, V6T 1Z3  

Websites of Interest [ UBC CaRMS Website ](http://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Jana Ogdenova

Title: Program Co-manager

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Kelly Jacobs

Title: Program Co-manager

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Cindy Choi

Title: Education Coordinator

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Kathleen McIntosh

Title: Co-Site Coordinator

Email: kathleen.mcintosh@fraserhealth.ca

  

Name: Bridget Begin

Title: Co-Site Coordinator

Email: Bridget.Begin@fraserhealth.ca

  

Name: Dr. Sandra Derkach

Title: Site Director

Email: Sandra.Derkach@fraserhealth.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Prospective residents should refer to the [Family Medicine Residency
Selection](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/) website for ongoing updates,
deadlines and detailed information.  
  

FMProC: Important timelines

For the 2025 residency selection cycle ALL FM residency programs in Canada
require applicants to sit FMProC for those applying in both rounds of CaRMS.



FMProC test window for CaRMS first Iteration is from **October 28 (8AM ET) to
November 11, 2024 (10AM ET).  **

Registration opens from **September 11 (12 noon ET) and closes on November 07,
2024 (10AM ET).  **

** **

To register and find out more about the test please go to**
****[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/)**. All test related updates will
be posted on the website.

Requests to register or to sit the test outside of the posted deadlines will
not be considered.



**Upon completion of FMProC,  you must upload** your FMProC result letter to
CaRMS for your application to be considered complete.

** **

* * *

# Return of Service

The IMG stream is subject to a Return of Service (ROS). Successfully matched
applicants are required to sign a contract with the Ministry of Health as a
condition of accepting a medical residency position. Templates of the ROS
contract and allocation details can be reviewed on the MOH ROS website here:
[International Medical Graduates -
BC](https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/health/practitioner-professional-
resources/physician-compensation/return-service-programs/pgme-img-program "
International Medical Graduates - BC")

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Resident selection for the UBC Family Medicine program is a collaborative
process between all of our sites. Logistics and administration of resident
selection is managed by our central program office in Vancouver, located at
the UBC Point Grey Campus.

As the UBC Family Medicine Program is distributed into 23 unique sites and
locations, candidates should apply to each site they are interested in.  
Applicants must submit same application package to all sites to which they
apply.  

Regardless of the number of sites applicants apply to and rank, **only one
interview will be conducted**.

A variety of virtual information sessions will be held to provide prospective
residents with the opportunity to learn more about the programs and discuss
the training experience with faculty and current residents. Please visit
[Program Events](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/interviews-and-program-
events/) for upcoming events.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**IMG applicants:**

IMG applicants need not provide evidence of English language testing if the
primary language of medical education or patient care was in English. If the
primary language of medical education or patient care was NOT in English then
applicants must fulfill the English language proficiency requirements by the
start of Ranking Period.



See CPSBC English Language Proficiency Requirements here for more information:
<https://www.cpsbc.ca/files/pdf/REG-ELP.pdf>

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

MCCQE Part 1 Exam Information: <https://mcc.ca/examinations/mccqe-part-i/>

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).



NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required.

  * Regardless of reference source, reference letters should speak to an interest in Family Medicine and aptitude for the discipline.
  * Using anecdotal narrative if possible, letters should provide evidence of attributes and abilities well suited for a career in Family Medicine.
  * These attributes and abilities are also evaluated in our interview process (see interview criteria and components).

Note: Traditional narrative letters will **NOT**** ** be accepted.  
Please note that should your reference submit a traditional letter it will not
be reviewed and your application may be deemed incomplete.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

_Provide a biographical letter (max. 750 words) that includes answers to the
following questions:_

_1.__        What life skills or lived experience do you have that demonstrate
your suitability for family medicine residency training?_

_2.__        Why would a career in Family Medicine be a good fit for you?_

_3.__        Why UBC? Why British Columbia? Please elaborate with specific
examples of any connections you might have with the province of B.C., like
community connections, education, work experience, etc. _

_4.__        What clinical experience have you had in Canada?_

_5.__        What experience do you have in community-based family medicine?_

_ _

_**Note:   The same letter must be submitted with each site application.**_

Custom Résumé / CV

IMG-BC Clinical Assessment Program

The UBC Clinical Assessment Program (CAP) Letter is provided to CaRMS by UBC
IMG Office.



* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 18, 2025
  * January 19, 2025
  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025
  * January 25, 2025
  * January 26, 2025
  * January 27, 2025
  * January 28, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: 2025 R-1 match interviews will continue to
be in a virtual format.  
  
The national interview period is January 18- February 09, 2025.  
**UBC interviews** will take place between the dates of **January 18-28, 2025.
**  
  
Please note that candidates will be interviewed once, regardless of number of
training sites you apply to.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All interviews will be conducted in a
live, synchronous MMI format. The UBC Family Medicine (FM) program will
contact the selected applicants by email to provide program-specific interview
details and interview links.  
  
If you wish to add a new program/site to your rank list after your interview,
you must update your CaRMS application by our **Program deadline, January 29,
2025**. This date will be posted here as soon as it is determined.  
  
Any additional sites added to your application after this date will not be
considered for ranking.  
  
  
**Important** : you must also link your documents to any newly ranked site.  
  
Regardless of the number of sites to which you apply, one final score will be
generated after the interview.  
If you are matched, the program will be unable to facilitate transfer from one
site to another.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Applicants must submit an application to each site they are interested in and
should assign the same set of documents to each site. Selection is based on
file review and one set of MMI interviews. Each file is reviewed and given a
score. This file review score determines whether a candidate is offered an
interview. The file review score is then combined with the interview score and
FMProC score to create a total score for each applicant. **The file review
score will contribute to 50%, interview score will contribute to 45%, and
FMProC score will contribute to 5% of the overall global score.** This total
score informs the creation of a rank list which is submitted to each site for
consideration. Some sites will use this as the final rank list while some
sites will apply their own adjustments to this list based on local site
selection committee input.

** **

## Program goals

  1. To graduate residents who have developed the competencies needed to begin independent family practice in diverse community settings.
  2. To deliver an effective academic, clinical and scholarly educational program.
  3. To graduate residents who are inspired, resilient, and balanced.
  4. To graduate residents who demonstrate evidence-based and reflective practice.
  5. To provide working and learning environments that ensure residents, faculty and staff feel respected and supported.

## Selection process goals

  1. Identify individuals with an aptitude for family medicine who are most likely to thrive in our diverse residency sites and in the unique context of British Columbia communities.
  2. Identify individuals with a demonstrated solid foundation of clinical skills and clinical approach which equips them for Postgraduate Education training.
  3. Identify individuals who have consistent professional behavior; who interact appropriately with patients, colleagues and staff.
  4. Identify mature, motivated individuals with a broad range of life experience which they can draw upon to adapt to the demands of residency training.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is composed of faculty leadership
from across our distributed program, the program director and senior
administration.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 201 - 400  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Clinical experiences gained through electives are considered   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership skills are considered in the context of the personal letters and reference letters   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Taken into consideration only if professionalism issues are identified   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstrated suitability to Family Medicine and training in BC through experience and life skills   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Demonstrated suitability through attributes, abilities and interest in the discipline   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
Other file component(s) |  1\. Graduation Year  
2\. BC Clinical Assessment Program Quartile Rank  
3\. MCQQE Part I  
  
Note: A CV, the MSPR and transcripts are required supporting documents by
CaRMS but are not scored as part of the UBC Family Practice file review
process.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Clinical experiences gained through electives are
considered

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Yes: with patients and colleagues   
Collegiality |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Communication skills |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Health advocacy |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Interest in the discipline |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Interest in the program |  Yes: UBC in general, and in specific programs (rural, under-served populations, inner-city context etc.)   
Leadership skills |  Yes: assessment of leadership of self and others   
Professionalism |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Other interview component(s) |  Ability to handle Ambiguity/Uncertainty  
Advocacy/Compassion  
Resilience  
Patient centeredness  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  • File does not support interest in family medicine  
• Interview suggests lack of non-cognitive family medicine skills  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

### **Uniquely B.C:  UBC Family Medicine**

[Family Medicine training in BC](https://postgrad.familypractice.ubc.ca/)
presents you with many unique opportunities. We are a fully accredited
distributed program with 23 training sites and multiple training communities.
In an effort to meet the evolving needs of our society, each site provides a
solid foundation in the knowledge and clinical skills of Family Medicine so
that our graduates are prepared to practice in a variety of settings. While
our program offers diversity of training, it is based on [common goals,
learning objectives, and assessment
standards](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/program-info/).

All residents are required to do a [mandatory 2-month rural
rotation](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/resident-resources/rural-
rotation/) in Family Medicine in their second year. Residents in the Coastal,
or rural programs in the Okanagan or the North complete longer rural
placements. Residents can also apply to participate in Enhanced Rural training
for a total of 4-6 months in rural communities.

There is extensive [academic and administrative
support](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/about/program-matrix/) for the
entire residency program. Our central program administrative team is based in
Vancouver on UBC campus. At the site level, leadership teams are made up of a
Site Director, Site Faculty, Lead Residents and administrators. Lead Program
Faculty provide provincial education support in the areas of curriculum,
assessment, faculty development, scholarship and behavioral medicine.

The Family Practice Postgraduate Education Committee has representation from
all sites to ensure a connected, distributed program that fully meets
accreditation standards. Residents are represented at all levels of
governance.

A wide range of amazing recreational and cultural opportunities are at your
doorstep, as well as a collegial community of residents and physicians with
whom you can learn, grow, and play. We want your experience to be in BC to be
a positive and enjoyable one.

### **Training Sites: Overview**

Visit the [UBC Family Medicine Postgraduate website
](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/)for a detailed overview of each of the 23
sites and their surrounding communities.  Each site provides opportunities to
experience Family Medicine in their unique context, offering special
opportunities to gain experience and skills unique to the area where you are
training.

The following is a list of our sites and their base community/hospital. Each
site serves the surrounding community (see [training
sites](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/training-sites/interactive-map/) for
full details):



**Greater Vancouver / Lower Mainland**

  * Abbotsford-Mission
  * Coastal (North Vancouver, Lion’s Gate Hospital)
  * Chilliwack
  * Indigenous (Greater Vancouver and rural Indigenous communities)
  * St. Paul's (Downtown Vancouver, Inner City)
  * Surrey South Fraser (Surrey Memorial Hospital)
  * Vancouver Fraser (New Westminster, Royal Columbian)



**Interior Region**

  * Kootenay Boundary (Trail, Nelson, Rossland, Castlegar)
  * Kelowna Rural (Kelowna R1 year; rural communities across BC in R2 year)
  * Kelowna Regional
  * North Okanagan (Vernon)
  * Okanagan South (Penticton)
  * Kamloops



**Vancouver Island**

  * Indigenous (Victoria, Ladysmith and rural Indigenous communities including Pacheedaht, Penelakut, ‘Namgis)
  * Quw'utsun (Duncan)
  * Nanaimo 
  * Strathcona (Comox, Campbell River and Courtenay)
  * Victoria



**Northern**

  * Fort St. John (Northeast)
  * Northern Rural (Prince George R1 year; rural communities across BC in R2 year)
  * Prince George
  * Rural Immersion (Hazelton, Smithers, Vanderhoof, Mackenzie, Valemount/McBride, Chetwynd/Tumbler Ridge)
  * Terrace (Rural Northwest)



**IMG positions are offered at the following sites:**

  * Abbotsford-Mission
  * Chilliwack
  * Coastal
  * Fort St. John
  * Kamloops
  * Kootenay Boundary
  * Nanaimo
  * North Okanagan
  * Okanagan South
  * Kelowna Rural
  * Kelowna Regional
  * Prince George
  * Strathcona
  * St. Paul’s
  * Surrey South Fraser
  * Vancouver Fraser
  * Victoria

### **Resident Support**

Resident resilience and wellness is our top priority. Important
[resources](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/resident-resources/resident-
wellness-and-safety/) have been developed by our program to support our
residents throughout the course of the training.

All UBC programs are allocated a fixed amount of funding per resident for
Resident Activities.  This funding is used to provide educational support to
residents during their 2 years of training. This includes funding for
residents to attend program-wide courses and events. Additionally, residents
may identify conferences and educational materials that would supplement their
training experience. A discretionary, per resident funding will also be
allocated to the sites for a similar purpose at the site level.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Introduction**

Welcome to the Surrey-South Fraser Site of the UBC Family Practice Residency
Program. Surrey Memorial Hospital is the largest hospital in the Fraser Health
Authority and one of the busiest hospitals in BC, seeing over 157,711
emergency visits per year at this site. We have 300+ family practitioners,
with a variety of practice types including full service with active hospital
privileges, full service office-based, walk-in clinics and physicians with
special interest in Obstetrics, Hospitalist Medicine, Geriatrics, HIV/AIDS,
New Canadian Clinic, Surgical Assistant Program, Palliative/Hospice, Emergency
Medicine, Mental Health, Addiction Medicine, Adolescent clinic, and Methadone
clinic.

Surrey Memorial is a 800-bed hospital, co-located with the Fraser Valley
Cancer Clinic, Laurel Place Rehabilitation and Hospice, Creekside Withdrawal
Management Centre, and professional buildings providing space for our medical
staff. On an average day we see 300+ ER visits, 75+ acute & day surgeries,
deliver 12+ babies, conduct 380+ diagnostic procedures. As well we are the
regional center for pediatrics, cancer care, surgical care, renal care,
palliative hospice, sleep lab, rehabilitation service, regional pain clinic,
and in-patient psychiatric unit.

**Purpose / Objectives**

The mission of the Surrey South Fraser site of the UBC Department of Family
Practice Residency Program is to provide a comprehensive education in full-
spectrum, community-focused, urban Family Practice.  We endeavor to expose the
trainee to the full breadth of clinical problems commonly encountered by the
Family Practitioner, and to develop a deep sense of collegiality and
community-awareness throughout the program.

The Vision of the Surrey South Fraser site of the UBC Department of Family
Practice Residency Program is that the resident completing our program will be
superbly trained to incorporate any aspect of acute or chronic care into their
future practice.  The physicians who train here will practice evidence-based
medicine and have strong critical-appraisal skills. They will be collegial and
ethical and will have knowledge of the importance of self-care. We will train
physicians who understand the social, political, and economic realities of
medicine, enabling them to be active in the administration of the profession
and the health care system.

Surrey South Fraser is an integrated Canadian Medical Graduate and
International Medical Graduate program offering the same learning experience
to both groups.  Residents will be distributed between the Langley, Surrey,
and White Rock communities.  The Academic Campus and administrative offices
will be based at Surrey Memorial Hospital.

To complement the educational experience of the daily clinical work, residents
attend a mandatory, bi-weekly academic day which includes Family Practice and
specialty seminars and resident-driven academic activities.  Longitudinal
programs with Addictions, New Canadians Clinic, Youth Clinic, Outreach,
Geriatric / Residential Care are being developed in conjunction with the
Family Practice blocks.  In addition, electives will be available in Chronic
Pain, Positive Health (HIV, AIDS, Hep C), Community Mental Health, Adolescent
Medicine, Subspecialty Medicine and Public Health / Global Health Initiatives.

The resident will have opportunity to be involved in the Outpatient Clinics at
the Jim Pattison Outpatient Care and Surgical Center and Urgent Primary Care
Centre.  This would include Lung Health, Chronic Disease Management, Cardiac
Rehabilitation Care, Breast Health Clinic, Positive Health (HIV, AIDS, Hep C),
Diabetes Clinic, Specialized Seniors Clinic, Urology Clinic, Neurology Clinic,
Surgical Outpatient Procedures, Primary Care Network Rehab Teams and SMH
Outpatient Rehabilitation. The emphasis will be on practical Family Practice
skills.

**PGY1 Overview  
**

The R1 year will be designed to support the development of patient-centered
Family Medicine skills required for successful practice. Residents will be
assigned a primary family physician preceptor to support longitudinal care for
patients in a practice. This practice will allow integration of skills from
focused rotations and will promote learning in the context of Family Practice.
The first year will be spent primarily in the Surrey South Fraser region which
is a well-established academic center. Residents will acquire significant
graduated levels of responsibility which will prepare them well for practice.
Family Practice is the only residency program based within Surrey Memorial
Hospital which provides opportunity for more hands-on responsibility and one-
on-one teaching.

**Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location / Notes**  
---|---|---  
Family Medicine |  18 weeks |  Ongoing full day back throughout the program  
Emergency  |  4 weeks  |  Surrey, Langley, Peace Arch or Delta  
Obstetrics+Gynecology  |  6 weeks  |  Surrey (expect overnight hospital call on OB)  
Pediatrics  |  6 weeks  |  Surrey, Langley, BCCH  
Musculoskeletal |  2 weeks |  Surrey  
IM Clinical Teaching Unit |  4 weeks |  Surrey  
Palliative Care |  4 weeks |  Surrey, Langley, Delta or Peace Arch  
Infectious Diseases |  2 weeks |  Surrey  
General Surgery |  4 weeks |  Surrey  
Addictions |  2 weeks |  Surrey  
  
**PGY2 Overview  
**

The R2 year will be in mostly within the Fraser Valley with a mandatory 8-week
family medicine rural rotation opportunity for extended time in underserviced
communities.

**Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location / Notes**  
---|---|---  
Family Medicine |  16 weeks  |  Ongoing full days throughout the program (Expect overnight Hospital Call)  
Clinical Teaching Unit |  4 weeks |  Surrey or Langley (Expect overnight Hospital Call)  
Psychiatry |  4 weeks |  Surrey or Peace Arch  
Geriatrics |  2 weeks |  Surrey  
Endocrinology |  2 weeks |  Surrey  
Electives |  16 weeks |   (Expect overnight hospital call) Select between Prison Health, New Canadian Clinic, Aboriginal Health, Addictions, Positive Health, Urgent Patient Care Centre, etc.  
Rural |  8 weeks |     
  
**Academic Days and Research**

Residents attend mandatory academic activities – usually two full days a
month. This includes academic teaching and clinical case discussions on core
topics. Residents are also expected to give presentations. Throughout the
program, we stress "Evidence-Based Medicine" in both academic and clinical
areas.

In June of each year, residents will come together for a mandatory Site-
specific Scholarship Day.

In the first year, residents will be expected to complete a quality
improvement project. Throughout the two years, residents must complete a
scholar project and present their work on Scholarship Day.

### **International Electives**

Residents can do one month of interprovincial or international electives
during the second year of their training.

### **Further Training**

Third-year training positions are available in the area of Emergency Medicine,
Care of The Elderly, Anesthesia, Palliative Medicine, Sports and Exercise
Medicine, Clinician Scholars program and a wide range of other Category 2
Enhanced Skills programs.

* * *

# Training Sites

The resident group will be composed of twelve (12) Canadian Medical Graduates
and seven (7) International Medical Graduates. This will be an integrated
program with CMG and IMG residents placed in Family Practices primarily in
Surrey and Langley, but also Eagle Ridge, White Rock and Delta.  The Academic
Campus and administrative offices will be based at Surrey Memorial Hospital.
Rotations and learning experiences will take place at all local hospitals but
will be primarily based at Surrey Memorial Hospital.  As the program matures,
there will be increasing use of the other community hospitals.  

The IMG program originally began with four residents in 2012 and expanded to
six residents in 2013.  Although initially based at Langley Memorial Hospital
and in the Langley community, the IMGs are now integrated into the Surrey,
Langley, Delta and White Rock hospitals and communities.  Find below
descriptions of the various hospital sites.

**Surrey Memorial Hospital**

In 1959, Surrey Memorial Hospital (SMH) opened as a 100-bed facility and has
now expanded to 800+ beds and is the largest hospital in Fraser Health,
employing close to 4,000+ people.  The hospital provides services for Fraser
Health in many areas, including Pediatrics, Ophthalmology, Obstetrics, Cancer
Care, Surgical Care, Renal Care, Palliative Care, and Sleep Medicine.  In
2014, construction of the new eight-story tower was completed and is fully
operational.  This has expanded the total number of beds to 800, and includes
a new Emergency Department, a new 48-bed neonatal intensive care unit, an
enhanced UBC Academic space, and the new Helipad.

In 2016/17 Surrey Memorial Hospital saw 157,711 emergency room visits,
provided care to 30,075 inpatient and 12,020 surgical day care cases,
delivered 4,461 newborns, and had 165,331 visits to ambulatory care.

**Langley Memorial Hospital**

Langley is a community of 150,000 people located 60 minutes east of Vancouver.
Langley Memorial Hospital (LMH) was opened in 1948.  LMH provides an
integrated, acute and community-based health service, ensuring that the needs
of the Langley community are met.  It is an advanced neighborhood resource
facility that offers services such as 24/7 Emergency Services and Urgent Care,
General Medicine and Surgery, Pediatrics, Psychiatry, Ophthalmology and
Radiology.  The hospital has 166 beds and 224 for extended care.

The Family Maternity Centre at LMH has undergone a $5.35-million expansion.
The number of births at LMH is around 2000+ per year.

**Peach Arch Hospital  **

Peach Arch Hospital (PAH) has 169 beds in the acute care facility and Level IV
trauma centre.  Located in the White Rock district which opened in 1954, the
hospital serving residents of South Surrey and White Rock.  Peace Arch
Hospital provides a range of health care services including emergency, surgery
and maternity care. Currently under expansion, Peace Arch provides 24/7
emergency services for patients.

**Eagle Ridge Hospital  **

Eagle Ridge Hospital (ERH) officially opened its doors as a community hospital
on 7 April 1984.  Operates a 24-hour emergency department, _general medicine_
, rehab, surgery, ambulatory, long-term care and acute care programs. With 106
acute beds serving over 50,000 medical emergencies, 600,000 lab tests and
6,000 surgeries annually.

** **

**Delta Hospital  **

Delta is a community of 103,000+ residents and its hospital offers services to
a catchment of residents of Ladner, North Delta and Tsawwassen First Nation.
The hospital employs more than 580 workers.  The hospital opened in 1977 in
Fraser Health’s integrated network of care, providing primary, secondary, and
some specialty services, such as 24/7 emergency, general medicine, surgery,
inpatient and outpatient care, with some service referrals while others can be
accessed directly.  The Delta Hospital has an acute emergency department and
provides a range of surgical day care and outpatient services.

**Jim Pattison Outpatient Care and Surgical Centre**

This facility was the first comprehensive Outpatient Facility in Fraser Health
and accommodates 120,000+ outpatient services per year. It houses enhanced
diagnostic, pharmacy, laboratory, radiology and specialty services which have
been developed around a core of Diagnostic and Chronic Disease Clinics to
serve the Surrey Community.

The focus of the South Fraser site is to give residents a robust experience in
suburban and semi-rural family medicine. Although there are still several sole
practitioners there is an increasing number of group practices involving
multidisciplinary care. Surrey is a community that is rapidly growing. It is
an excellent place to learn the art of managing your time and resources and
advocating on behalf of your patients. Also, there are great opportunities to
be mentored by physicians who practice in the wide variety of clinical
settings.  You will find the Surrey, Langley, Delta and White Rock medical
communities developing a culture of academic teaching and research with an
enthusiasm for teaching.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26818?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26818