#  McMaster University - Neurosurgery - Hamilton

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Blake Yarascavitch  

Address Department of Surgery - Neurosurgery  
McMaster University  
1200 Main Street West  
Hamilton, Ontario, L8N 3Z5  

Cell  905-730-4630

Work  905-521-2100 x 46626

Websites of Interest [ McMaster Neurosurgery Division
](https://www.macneuro.com/)  
[ Division of Neurosurgery
](https://surgery.healthsci.mcmaster.ca/divisions/neurosurgery/)  
[ McMaster Department of Surgery ](https://surgery.healthsci.mcmaster.ca/)  
[ McMaster PGME R1 Match Website
](https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Blake Yarascavitch

Title: Program Director

Email: yarascba@mcmaster.ca

Phone: 905-521-2100 x 75237

  

Name: Elyse Cornell

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: cornele@mcmaster.ca

Phone: 905-521-2100 Ext. 46626

  

* * *

# Important Information

For more information on Neurosurgery at McMaster University, please visit our
[MacNeuro website](https://www.macneuro.com/) and our [University Division
website](https://surgery.healthsci.mcmaster.ca/divisions/neurosurgery/).

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/).  It is important to review the
requirements carefully.

To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit the [McMaster PGME R1 match information
website](https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/).

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Thank you for your interest in our neurosurgery residency program at McMaster
University!

Please review our selection criteria for an overview of our selection
processes and standards. Additionally, under the Program Curriculum section,
you will find a detailed overview of the structure of our program.

We look forward to reviewing your application and meeting with you
(virtually!) in the coming months. Please do reach out to us if you have any
questions or require any additional information that is not provided on [our
website](https://www.macneuro.com/) or within CaRMS.

Information regarding virtual events such as town halls and attending teaching
activities will be posted to the PGME match website at
<https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/> as it becomes
available.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 3, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: The McMaster Neurosurgery program will be
holding interviews on Monday, February 3, 2025 via Zoom. Applicants selected
for interview will be contacted directly with details for the interview day as
well as an invitation for a virtual social event to be held the day before
(February 2, 2025).  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will take place on one day
and will consist of the applicant being interviewed by a minimum of 2 teams
consisting of faculty members and/or residents.  
  
All 2025 R-1 match interviews will be in a virtual format, as per the decision
of the AFMC Resident Matching Committee (ARMC).  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates are graded based on their academic records, their curriculum vitae,
and their completed CaRMS application, along with the strength of their
references. Overall final candidate ranking is determined by a weighted
average of file/application review and interview scores.

## Program goals

The purpose of the McMaster University Neurosurgery Residency Training Program
is to provide our trainees with a world-class education and experience in the
principles and practice of Neurosurgery. The program goal is that, by the end
of their training, the resident will be competent in all required neurosurgery
skills and incorporate CanMeds competencies into their practice. Program
length of training does not exceed the Royal College standards. The residency
rotations are designed to meet the requirements of the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. The Program is flexible to allow for
individual resident requirements and interests within the Royal College
framework.

## Selection process goals

The goal of the selection process is to identify the candidates who are best
placed to successfully complete the McMaster Neurosurgery Residency Training
Program. We aim to identify candidates that, by the end of their training,
will contribute positively to the delivery of excellent neurosurgical and
health services to society, in addition to advancing the field of neurosurgery
through academia. We are looking for candidates that will integrate well into
our current program structure and who will contribute positively to the
residency program environment.

## File review process

Review team composition : Applications are reviewed by members of the resident
selection committee, composed of both Neurosurgery faculty and residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
is approximately 25-30/year.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  
Average percentage of applicants offered interviews is >90%

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Overall life experiences, altruism, scholarly work.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Neurosurgical and other elective experience. Candidates are not penalized for their inability to complete electives at our training sites.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Achievements and interests.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Demonstration of prior leadership experiences.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic performance, clinical performance, and awards.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Motivations for their choice of neurosurgery as a career and exposures to the discipline.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Professionalism, work ethic, medical expert, character, and conduct.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest and ability to communicate scholarly work.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Overall progress and academic merit.   
Other file component(s) |  Communication skills  
Interest in the discipline  
Interest in the program  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We recognize that changes over the last several years have impacted
candidates' opportunities to arrange and complete electives and would like to
reassure you that a lack of elective activity due to more stringent elective
restrictions will not negatively impact your application to our program.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to constructively contribute to the success of a team.   
Collegiality |  Ability to perform well in a team environment and degree of self-awareness.   
Communication skills |  Assessed throughout the process through specific interview questions and observation.   
Health advocacy |  We do not evaluate this interview component.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrates knowledge of the specifics of the discipline.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrates knowledge of the specifics of the program.   
Leadership skills |  Experience and successes as a leader in any area.   
Professionalism |  Specific interview questions to assess professionalism.   
Scholarly activities |  We do not specifically evaluate this in the interview component as it has been assessed during file review.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * **Collegial Resident and Faculty Relations**  \- The McMaster Neurosurgery Residency Program has a long tradition of being a close-knit group of faculty and residents, providing exemplary surgical skills training and education.
  * **Volume and Diversity of Clinical Experiences**  \- Residents have first-hand surgical exposure and have access to high clinical volumes and diverse educational opportunities.
  * **Resident Rotation Flexibility****  - **The McMaster Neurosurgery Residency Program has strived to enable residents to customize their educational experiences and tailor individual rotations to facilitate focused learning and exposure for career planning.
  * **Cadaveric Anatomy and Skills Sessions -  **Hands-on cadaveric teaching sessions are** ** incorporated into the Neurosurgery Academic Half Day curriculum at the McMaster Anatomy Lab. Residents gain a further understanding of neuroanatomy, and practice surgical approaches and techniques through these faculty led teaching sessions.
  * **Dedicated Interventional Neuroradiology (INR) Rotations**  \- In response to the growing demand for INR training over the last several years, we now offer a dedicated rotation for advanced exposure to INR.
  * **McMaster Neurosurgery Research Committee -  **The program has a strong and well-established _Research Committee,_  which helps support and mentor residents’ research activities and helps to guide resident scholarly activity, including facilitation of entry into the Clinician Investigator Program (CIP) or Graduate Degree programs.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 6 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

# **Program Overview**

The Program implements the curriculum and training experiences outline by the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

CBD utilizes time as a framework rather than time as the basis for
progression. It is not anticipated that the duration of training will be
longer than 6 years for most trainees. The residency program consists of 4
stages and each stage has a series of milestones based on required
competencies. These milestones create more targeted learning outcomes and
involve more frequent, formative assessments within the clinical workplace to
ensure residents are developing and receiving feedback on the skills they
need. The stages are:

  1. Transition to Discipline (1-2 months)
  2. Foundations of Discipline (up to 24 months)
  3. Core of Discipline (36-45 months)
  4. Transition to Practice (2-3 months)

The durations listed are only for planning learning experiences and schedules.

Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs will include
the completion of a Royal College examination; however, residents in CBD
programs will also be assessed against program milestones throughout their
training. Within a CBD program, all milestones (documented within an
electronic portfolio) and the Royal College examination must be successfully
completed to achieve certification.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College standard.

The residency rotations are designed to meet the requirements of the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

  
The program is flexible enough to allow for individual resident requirements
and interests. For example, should a resident wish to specialize in functional
neurosurgery (planned, but not currently available at our centre), we will
facilitate additional exposure to this subspecialty at a mutually agreeable
teaching institution.



# **Education Sessions**

Friday mornings are Neurosurgery Resident Academic Half Days. Neuroradiology
Rounds, Neuroscience Rounds, Resident Lectures, and Brain
Cutting/Neuropathology Lectures are mandatory sessions on a weekly basis.
Annual oral and written exams are provided by the staff in order to assess a
Resident’s progress and Neurosurgical knowledge.



# **PGY 1 & 2**

There are two years of core surgery training jointly administered through the
Surgical Foundations program via the Competence by Design (CBD) model. These
rotations include General Surgery, ICU, as well as additional surgical
specialties, enabling the resident to fulfill all Surgical Foundation’s
requirements. The Surgical Foundations program additionally consists of
mandatory Wednesday morning half-days for PGY1 and PGY2 residents. Following
completion of the Surgical Foundations requirements, all residents are
required to pass the Royal College Surgical Foundations Examination to be
eligible for the Neurosurgery Royal College specialty exam.

It is expected that by the end of PGY2, residents will have successfully
completed all requirements necessary from the "Transition to Discipline" and
"Foundations of Discipline" stages of neurosurgery training in order to be
promoted to the "Core of Discipline" stage.

# **PGY 3**

This year will be spent in neurosurgery and neurosurgical research tailored to
the resident's needs, be it basic science or clinical. Those residents that
choose to continue doing clinical work during this period will be allowed to
do so. A three-month period is spent in pediatric neurosurgery.

Residents are expected to be in the "Core of Discipline" stage of the
Competence by Design Framework during this year.

# **PGY 4**

The PGY 4 year is spent in neurosurgery, with opportunities for community
and/or international electives in neurosurgery.

Residents are expected to be in the "Core of Discipline" stage of the
Competence by Design Framework during this year.

# **PGY 5**

The PGY 5 year is spent primarily in adult neurosurgery, with the option to do
3 months in pediatric neurosurgery. This year is intended to bolster the
resident's comfort and experience with all facets of neurosurgical practice.
This will include exposure to ambulatory practice, operating room experience,
and participation in satellite clinics.

To prepare for the Royal College written exam for specialty certification in
Neurosurgery, the program encourages enrollment and provides financial support
for established Neurosurgical exam review courses in this year of residency.

Residents are expected to be in "Core of Discipline" stage of the Competence
by Design Framework during this year.

In the new CBD framework, it is anticipated that residents will sit their
written Royal College exam in the fall of their PGY 5 year.

Additionally, residents may perform chief duties during the latter half of
their PGY 5 year, dependent upon resident distribution at the that time.



# **PGY 6** (Chief Year)

The last year of the neurosurgical program will be spent in neurosurgery and
geared towards producing an independent neurosurgeon capable of making
balanced clinical decisions based on sound judgement and available evidence.

To prepare for the Royal College oral exam for specialty certification in
Neurosurgery, the program encourages enrollment and provides financial support
for established Neurosurgical exam review courses in this year of residency.

Residents are expected to be completing the "Core of Discipline" stage of the
Competence by Design Framework during this year and must complete "Transition
to Practice" stages during the latter part of this year to successfully
complete residency.

# **Seminars**

In the first two years of the neurosurgical program, seminars related to the
principles of surgery are organized by the Surgical Foundations program. These
sessions are mandatory for the year 1 and 2 residents in addition to the
Friday morning Neurosurgery Academic Half-day curriculum.

Didactic and interactive teaching/learning occurs during weekly seminars
through all years of the residency program.



# **Research**

Residents are encouraged to present research projects at the annual
Neuroscience Resident Research Days and regularly at National and
International Conferences.

There is a neurosurgery program research committee that provides oversight of
resident research projects and their performance, offering guidance and
support from project inception to completion. Any research interests will be
nurtured, be it clinical or basic science.

One year of residency (usually PGY4) may be set aside to complete formal
research training for residents in good standing. Residents are encouraged to
apply for programs leading to an advanced degree to enhance their academic
qualifications, be it course- or thesis-based. Many past and current residents
have been granted leave to complete advanced degrees during their residency
program through the Clinician Investigator Program (CIP).

* * *

# Training Sites

There are two teaching institutions involved with the neurosurgical program,
Hamilton Health Sciences (HHS) and St. Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton (SJH).

Hamilton Health Sciences incorporates the Hamilton General Hospital, where the
majority of the adult neurosurgery occurs, McMaster Children's Hospital, where
pediatric neurosurgical care is delivered, and the Juravinski Hospital.  The
neurosurgical group consults as well at St. Joseph’s Hospital where a moderate
amount of ambulatory neurosurgical procedures occur.

All of the mandatory and elective rotations (including off-service rotations)
will take place at these institutions, except for a functional neurosurgery
rotation that is currently being supported through agreements with Western
University in London, Ontario. Pediatric neurosurgical experience will be at
the McMaster site.

Additionally, we support opportunities for elective rotations at both academic
and non-academic sites across Ontario and Canada.



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27285?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27285