#  Dalhousie University - Nuclear Medicine - Halifax  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on October 17, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Edward Wiley  

Address Diagnostic Imaging/Nuclear Medicine  
QEII Health Sciences Centre  
Room 319 North Wing, 1276 South Park Street  
Halifax , Nova Scotia, B3H 2Y9  

Work  (902) 473-5453

Websites of Interest [ Dalhousie University - Department of Diagnostic
Radiology ](https://medicine.dal.ca/departments/department-
sites/radiology/programs/residency.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Wiley c/o Melissa MacLeod

Title: Program Director/Education Assistant

Email: melissa.macleod@dal.ca

Phone: (902)473-5453

  

* * *

# Important Information

Our program values the importance of equity, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) as
a goal in the selection process.

To help inform and advance EDI in our selection process we are pleased to
offer the option to submit the voluntary CaRMS Self Identification
Questionnaire as part of an approved pilot offered in conjunction with CaRMS.  

Please see 'Supporting documents' and 'Selection criteria' sections below for
further information.

To obtain a postgraduate training license after the conclusion of the match,
Canadian Medical Graduates (CMG's) must have registered and challenged the
Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Exam Part 1 (MCCQE 1) by July 1, 2025.
Those unsuccessful in the exam are subject to the decision of the regulatory
authority regarding licensure.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

####  

You must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident _**at the time of
application**_.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three reference letters are required from established physicians with
preference for one being from a non-radiologist/nuclear medicine physician.
You are not required to have a reference letter from our department for your
application. Our Selection Committee prefers to see reference letters from
people who know you well and can vouch for your competence beyond brief
encounters on a two-week elective. References from senior residents will not
be accepted.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  500

Maximum :  550

  

A personal letter (500-550 words) detailing your reasons for application to
nuclear medicine, and to Dalhousie in particular.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Conditionally required

Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry

**Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry and/or Self-Identification of Black
Learners**

We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. Any responses received will be used only to support our
program’s and Dalhousie’s equity, diversity, and inclusion goals.

We invite applicable candidates to also complete Dalhousie’s verification
process for Indigenous identity, membership, or citizenship; or the self-
identification process for those who identify as Black.



**Conditionally required**

Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry

If you have self-identified as Indigenous, we require additional information.

Applicants shall provide a certified copy of one or more of the following
documents with their application:

  1. A Certificate of Indian Status issued by the Government of Canada, or a First Nation recognized by the Government of Canada;
  2. Written confirmation of membership or citizenship with a federally recognized band or tribal authority in the United States or Canada;
  3. Written confirmation of Inuit enrolment or a copy of an Inuit enrolment/beneficiary card issued by a modern Inuit treaty organization or government as follows:  
3.1 Inuvialuit Regional Corporation;  
3.2 Nunavut Tunngavik Incorporated;  
3.3 Makivik Corporation;  
3.4 Nunatsiavut Government;

  4. Written confirmation of Métis citizenship/membership or a copy of a Métis citizenship/membership card provided by a Métis government as follows:  
4.1 Métis National Council governing members:  
4.2 Métis Nation – Saskatchewan;  
4.3 Métis Nation of Alberta;  
4.4 Métis Nation British Columbia;  
4.5 Métis Nation of Ontario;  
4.6 Manitoba Métis Federation;  
4.7 Métis Settlements of Alberta.

Applicants who do not supply any of the documents listed above shall supply a
250-word statement with applicable supporting documentation that demonstrates
how they meet the citizenship or membership criteria established by the
recognized Indigenous nation to which they claim membership or citizenship.

The above information is only made available to Dalhousie PGME, Program
Director, and Program Manager of applicable training programs and will only be
used for purposes of the CaRMS matching process.

Please see below for the certification of documents.

# Certification of Documents

Documents may be certified by one of the following professionals:

  1. Accountant
  2. Chief of a First Nations Band
  3. Commissioner for Oaths
  4. Employee of a Service Canada Centre acting in an official capacity
  5. Funeral Director
  6. Justice of the Peace
  7. Lawyer, Magistrate, or Notary
  8. Manager of a Financial Institution
  9. Regulated Medical or Health Practitioner
  10. Member of Parliament or their staff
  11. Member of a Provincial/Territorial Legislature or their staff
  12. Minister of Religion
  13. Municipal Clerk
  14. Official of a Federal/Provincial/Indigenous Government Department or one of its agencies
  15. Official of an Embassy, Consulate, or High Commission
  16. Police Officer
  17. Professional Engineer
  18. Social Worker
  19. Teacher
  20. University Professor or Staff

The person certifying the document(s) must:

  1. Compare the original to the copy
  2. State their official position or title
  3. Print their name
  4. Sign their name
  5. Write the date they certified the document
  6. Provide their telephone number
  7. Write the following statement: This is a true copy of the original document, which has not been altered in any way

**Conditionally required**

Self-identification Process for Black Learners

If you self-identify as Black, please complete the following questions, and
include with your application:

1\. **Do you self-identify as Black?**

Yes/No

2.**If yes, please choose the category you identify most with:**

a. African Nova Scotian*

b. Black Maritimer

i. Nova Scotia without ties to a historic African Nova Scotian community

ii. New Brunswick

iii. Prince Edward Island

c. Black Canadian

d. Multiracial

i. African Nova Scotian and ______

ii. Black Maritimer and ________

iii. Black Canadian and _________

iv. Black and Indigenous

3\. **In 500 words or less, please speak to the self-identification category
you chose above. Include things to highlight your connection to Black
community as well as your lineage. If you chose African Nova Scotian, note
Dalhousie uses the following definition from the African Nova Scotian
Strategy, and we ask you speak to your specific land-based community.**

* “African Nova Scotians are a distinct People who descend from free and enslaved Black Planters, Black Loyalists, Black Refugees, Maroons and other Black people who inhabited the original 52 land-based Black communities in that part of Mi’kma’ki known as Nova Scotia.” ([African Nova Scotian Strategy](https://www.dal.ca/about/mission-vision-values/equity-diversity-inclusion-and-accessibility/about-office-equity-inclusion.html#:~:text=WHAT%20IS%20THE%20AFRICAN%20NOVA,with%20African%20Nova%20Scotian%20communities))



All self-identification documentation will be reviewed by the Black faculty
leadership within the Faculty of Medicine.



Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire or to complete Dalhousie’s verification process, but for those
that do feel comfortable doing so the information received would only be used
to advantage those who would contribute to the diversity of our community.

Optional - will be reviewed

Self-identification questionnaire

We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. Any responses received will be used only to support our
programs and Dalhousie’s equity, diversity, and inclusion goals.  Responses
received will not be used by the program for any purpose with the exception of
this year’s first iteration match.

Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so the information
received would only be used to advantage those who would contribute to the
diversity of our community.  Several  Dalhousie University programs, including
our program, are using this questionnaire this year with the support of the
Dalhousie University Faculty of Medicine and of CaRMS.

 _Complete the form within your CaRMS Online account and assign it as part of
your application package_

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 24, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interview Dates:  January 24, 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Applications are prescreened by the
Selection Committee. Candidates to be offered interviews will be contacted as
soon as review is complete. We can offer some flexibility in setting
interviews, within reason. All interviews will be held virtually.  
  
There is no examination in the interview. Candidates will have several short
interviews with members of the Selection Committee. All applicants to our
combined program will also be interviewed by some members of the Diagnostic
Radiology Selection Committee. A recent photograph of the candidate as part of
the electronic file would be helpful to the committee, especially upon review
of the candidate's profile after the interviews.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates are selected based upon their academic record, personal letter,
references, and interview. Particular attention is paid to their interest in
the field of Nuclear Medicine, their interest in serving our diverse
populations in the maritime provinces, their academic strength, their ability
to learn independently and collaboratively, and their professionalism,
collegiality, and reliability. Interactions with the program in formal and
informal settings may be considered in the selection process.

## Program goals

Program Goals:

  * Provide a comprehensive educational experience in Nuclear Medicine that develops outstanding specialist physicians
  * Incorporate the CanMEDS roles and competencies into the program curriculum to ensure that residents develop abilities needed to serve diverse populations, especially those of the Maritime provinces
  * Provide residents with adequate opportunity, supervision, evaluation and feedback to fulfill their educational objectives
  * Maintain a program that is dynamic and responsive to resident needs
  * Incorporate residency education innovations into the program's curriculum
  * Cultivate a program supportive of resident health and wellness
  * Provide effective educational experiences to trainees in other disciplines, including Diagnostic Radiology residents
  * Inspire and support residents in the pursuit of scholarly, research, and administrative activities as a part of their professional development
  * Introduce residents to clinical practice in non-academic community settings within the Maritimes where appropriate

## Selection process goals

The goals of the selection process are:

  * Identify applicants with an interest in Nuclear Medicine and with a passion to serve our communities
  * Identify applicants who excel in all CanMEDS competencies
  * Identify applicants who demonstrate self-motivation, enthusiasm for learning, and the ability to adapt to the shifting demands of residency training
  * Identify applicants who have displayed maturity and resiliency through academic and non-academic life experience
  * Attract applicants to Dalhousie's Nuclear Medicine program and promote its strengths
  * Conduct the selection process in a consistent, fair and transparent manner

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is composed of the Program Director,
three (3) Faculty in Nuclear Medicine and two (2) senior residents, subject to
availability. As this is an integrated program with Diagnostic Radiology,
candidates will also be reviewed by the DR review team with a similar makeup.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Candidates' academic history and overview of career.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Interest in Nuclear Medicine and Diagnostic Imaging and experience in other clinical domains.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Outside interests and hobbies. Well-rounded candidates.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Activity in leadership and administrative roles. Ability to work independently and collaboratively.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic record and consistency.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Candidates' motivations, personal history, and interest in the specialty.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Collegiality skills. Academic, research and practical skills. Recommendations from known colleagues.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Previous research history and quality.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic record and consistency.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Candidates who can work well in a team at various levels.   
Collegiality |  Candidates who show courtesy and collegiality during the interview process.   
Communication skills |  Candidates who are able to communicate and interact well with the interview team.   
Health advocacy |  Aptitude for advocacy work in health care.   
Interest in the discipline |  Discussion of the candidates' motivations and interest in Nuclear Medicine and Diagnostic Imaging.   
Interest in the program |  The candidates' motivations and interests in Dalhousie and living in Nova Scotia during residency.   
Leadership skills |  Candidates' previous leadership experience and future interests.   
Professionalism |  Discussions around professionalism and professional issues.   
Scholarly activities |  consistency. Past scholarly activities and future interests.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

This is a combined program with Diagnostic Radiology and candidates must be
satisfactory to both programs.

Quick Facts:

\- Electives are available outside of our regular training sites, pending
approval from the Residency Program Committee and subject to Royal College
requirements.

\- Ratio of residents to faculty in Nuclear Medicine is typically 3:7, but can
be higher when we accept transfers into the program. In Diagnostic Radiology,
it is roughly 3:5.

\- Average patient load is not applicable to this specialty.

\- AIRP Radiology/Pathology course is made available to all residents (tuition
paid by department).

Additional Comments:

Residents are encouraged to attend an annual national/international scientific
meeting with stipend from the university department during training.

Dalhousie University Department of Diagnostic Radiology offers a high teaching
staff to resident ratio and harmonious working relationship with referring
clinical departments.

Departmental Website:  <https://medicine.dal.ca/departments/department-
sites/radiology/programs/residency.html>



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 6 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Dalhousie Nuclear Medicine program is offered as a 6 year combined Nuclear
Medicine/Diagnostic Radiology program.  Currently there is one PGY-1 position
every two years.  The program consists of one basic clinical year, two full
years of training in all aspects of Nuclear Medicine and three years of
training in Diagnostic Radiology.  The program incorporates rotations within
Nuclear Medicine at all stages of training under CBD.  This 6 year program
leads to certification in both specialties.  The resident writes the RCPSC
exam in Diagnostic Radiology in the PGY5 year, and the RCPSC exam in Nuclear
Medicine in the PGY6 year.

Both the Nuclear Medicine and Diagnostic Radiology programs have transitioned
to Competence by Design (the Competency-Based Medical Education program being
used by the RCPSC).

PGY-1  
  

The Nuclear Medicine (and Dalhousie Radiology) postgraduate training programs
offer their PGY-1 trainees one year of multidisciplinary clinical training
within the Dalhousie integrated postgraduate programs.  Residents are required
to take at least 1 month of clinical cardiology training during their PGY-1
year.

  
  

PGY-2 to 6  
  

The program is organized to ensure each resident has exposure to all aspects
of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Nuclear Medicine. Training in adult clinical
Nuclear Medicine is undertaken at the QEII Health Sciences Centre, Victoria
General (VG) and Halifax Inﬁrmary (HI) sites. A large volume and diversity of
Nuclear Medicine studies are performed, including cardiac imaging, oncology
imaging, bone scanning, lung scanning, renal scanning, endocrine imaging
(particularly thyroid), infection and inﬂammation imaging, CNS imaging
(particularly brain PET scanning), biliary and other GI imaging, bone
densitometry, and non-imaging in-vivo studies. There is a particular emphasis
on oncology and endocrine imaging at the VG, and on cardiac imaging at the HI.
We have a PET/CT suite located at the VG hospital which performs approximately
90 examinations each week and there is a local cyclotron production facility
for FDG production and PET radiopharmaceutical research. Pediatric Nuclear
Medicine training takes place at the IWK Health Centre, and a community NM
experience is provided at the Saint John Regional Hospital. Numerous
radioisotope therapies are performed at our centre, ranging from the commonly
performed 131-Iodine therapies for benign and malignant thyroid disease,
223-Radium therapies for bone metastases in castration-resistant prostate
cancer, and 177-Lutetium-dotatate therapies for neuroendocrine tumors. In
addition to clinical Nuclear Medicine rotations, residents go through
dedicated rotations in radiopharmacy and technical aspects of Nuclear
Medicine, as well as rotations in cardiac stress-testing. For an overview of
the Radiology rotations, please refer to the Dalhousie Diagnostic Radiology
section of the CaRMS website.

There is a large volume of resident teaching within the program. Nuclear
Medicine rounds are held weekly and consist of a mix of grand rounds, journal
clubs, interesting case rounds, and research rounds. There is a dedicated
curriculum for nuclear medicine residents while they are on service where key
topics in Nuclear Medicine are covered in depth through lectures by faculty.
During the PGY2-5 years, residents also participate in the Diagnostic
Radiology rounds. In addition to weekly rounds, there are a number of deﬁned
courses provided. For Nuclear Medicine, these include a Radiation Safety
Orientation, a Nuclear Medicine Physics Course, a Radiopharmacy Course and a
Radiation Safety Course. Courses provided through the Diagnostic Radiology
aspect of the combined program include a Physics Course for Radiology
Residents, a Radiobiology Course and the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology
(AIRP) program, an extensive 4 week radiology/pathology correlation course
attended by all Dalhousie Radiology and Nuclear Medicine residents in
Washington, DC, USA (or virtually when required).

The Nuclear Medicine Division at Dalhousie is extensively involved in
research. Residents are required to undertake at least one approved scholarly
project during their residency.

Residents perform Radiology call in PGY2-5 years and Nuclear Medicine call in
the two Nuclear Medicine years. The amount of Radiology call is scaled back
during their dedicated block rotations in Nuclear Medicine.

  
  

Research  
  

Residents are required to carry out at least one original academic project
and/or audit, with the guidance of the Research Director and committee. Time
will be made available to the resident in carrying out this activity.

  
  

Seminars  
  

An extensive basic science and clinical teaching program exists in radiology.
Please see the Diagnostic Radiology program description for details. In
Nuclear Medicine there are formal teaching sessions with a dedicated
curriculum for the Nuclear Medicine residents delivered by faculty. There are
weekly academic rounds with topics including journal clubs, JNM rounds,
CanMEDS rounds and interesting case rounds. An integrated physics course is
offered yearly in conjunction with Radiology.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

The following are primary hospitals for PGY 1-6:

  * QEII Health Sciences Centre is the base hospital, Halifax, NS
  * Saint John Regional Hospital, Saint John, NB
  * IWK Health Centre, Halifax, NS

\- Electronic medical resources available include teaching files, RADPrimer,
StatDx

\- Residents are encouraged to take part in community rotations

_NOTE:  There are many learning opportunities through the Maritimes that we
try to leverage to deliver the best possible educational experience for our
residents. As part of the integrated program with Diagnostic Radiology, you
may be expected to complete rotations outside Halifax but within the Maritime
provinces._

* * *

# Additional Information

AIRP radiology-pathology course is made available to all residents (tuition
paid by department). Residents are encouraged to attend annual and/ or
international scientiﬁc meetings with ﬁnancial support from the university
department.

Dalhousie University Radiology Department/Nuclear Medicine Division oﬀers a
high teaching staﬀ to resident ratio with a high clinical volume. There is an
excellent working relationship with radiology, cardiology and related clinical
departments.

Both the NM and DR programs have entered Competence By Design, as established
and developed by the RCPSC. Our programs have worked closely together to
simplify the process and support our residents in the combined program, and we
will continue to do so. Our goal with CBD is to create a more responsive and
informative learning experience for our learners, while minimizing the time
spent on paperwork.

* * *

# FAQ

Find out why our current residents chose the Dalhousie programs:
<https://medicine.dal.ca/departments/department-
sites/radiology/programs/hear.html>[
](https://medicine.dal.ca/departments/department-
sites/radiology/programs/hear.html)

Find out why our current residents chose the East Coast as their residency
home: <https://medicine.dal.ca/departments/department-
sites/radiology/programs/east-coast.html>[
](https://medicine.dal.ca/departments/department-
sites/radiology/programs/east-coast.html)

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26678?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26678