#  University of Saskatchewan - Emergency Medicine - Saskatoon

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on August 30, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Quinten Paterson  

Address Emergency Medicine  
Royal University Hospital  
Box 16, 103 Hospital Drive  
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, S7N 0W8  

Work  (306) 655-1446

Work  (306) 844-1158

Websites of Interest [ University of Saskatchewan Emergency Medicine Website
](http://saskem.ca)  
[ Instagram Link ](https://www.instagram.com/usaskem/)  
[ SK EM Collective Website ](https://skemcollective.ca/residency-
education/rcpsc/program-overview/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Quinten Paterson

Title: Program Director

Email: quintenpaterson@gmail.com

  

Name: Damjan Gaco

Title: Assistant Program Director - Assessment

Email: damjangaco@gmail.com

  

Name: Sachin Trivedi

Title: Assistant Program Director - Curriculum

Email: sachin.trivedi@usask.ca

  

Name: Rob Carey

Title: Assistant Program Director - Simulation

Email: rcarey614@gmail.com

  

Name: Andrew Leach

Title: Regina Site Director

Email: agl436@mail.usask.ca

  

Name: Leah Chomyshen

Title: Program Administrator - Saskatoon

Email: leah.chomyshen@usask.ca

Phone: (306) 655-1446

  

Name: Julie Hunter

Title: Program Administrator - Saskatoon

Email: julie.hunter@usask.ca

  

Name: Kallee Heinrichs

Title: Program Administrator - Regina

Email: Kallee.Heinrichs@saskhealthauthority.ca

  

Name: Lead Residents

Title: FRCPC Lead Residents

Email: frcpcresidents@saskem.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Applicants are responsible for reviewing the [University of Saskatchewan
Policies for the R-1 Match](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/saskatchewan/) to determine if they meet all
requirements and eligibility criteria. Failure to meet or provide proof of any
of the stated requirements or documents may result in an applicant’s file not
being reviewed or ranked.

**Casper Test**  
All applicants must complete the Casper test. Please refer to the Examinations
section for more information.

**Licensing  
** Matched applicants must be eligible for an educational register license
with the [College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Registration___Licensure/web/Applicants/Licensure/Registration_and_Licensure_Landing.aspx?hkey=75b022f8-df64-4f34-8e2a-a09bea881787)
(CPSS) for a July 1st start date and must maintain eligibility for an
educational register license throughout their entire training program. Matched
applicants who are graduating in the spring will need to provide a copy of
their medical degree/diploma to the PGME office and the College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Saskatchewan (CPSS) prior to the start of residency training.
Any delays in providing all required documentation to CPSS may result in the
following:

  * delay in issuance of an educational register license and a delay in start of postgraduate training beyond July 1st
  * release from CaRMS match contract

**Applicants completing medical education at the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)**  are
required to submit proof of English language proficiency before the rank order
deadline to demonstrate they meet CPSS requirements. More information is
available under Supporting Documentation-Language Proficiency.

**NOTE:**  Applicants who are considering a delay to their convocation date
must be aware that a medical degree cannot be issued to a student until they
have convocated. CPSS bylaws require that new residents must have received
their medical degree prior to the commencement of residency training. Choosing
to delay convocation will affect a matched applicant’s ability to commence
their residency training program in Saskatchewan on July 1. Please refer to
the [U of S CaRMS Deferral Policy](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/carms-
deferral-of-training-start-date---match-violation-release-from-
match.php#relatedForms) for additional information.

**Credentialing**  
In order to commence and continue in Postgraduate Medical Education training
programs, matched applicants must be eligible for and maintain privileges
within the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) as determined by their
credentialing process. The Saskatchewan Health Authority requires successful
applicants to submit immunization records and a current criminal record check
as part of their pre-resident application for appointment. Applicants with
criminal records will be considered on a case by case basis by the College of
Medicine in consultation with the Health Authority.

Any delays in providing all required documentation to the Saskatchewan Health
Authority may result in a delay in the start of postgraduate training beyond
July 1st.

**Resident Boot Camp  
** All matched applicants must attend a mandatory three-day Resident Boot Camp
scheduled for late June. The purpose of the Boot Camp is to provide additional
support to trainees as they transition to residency by introducing and
consolidating baseline skills and knowledge needed to flourish during their
residency years. The program will include interactive case-based and hands-on
practice sessions. Stipends will be provided to trainees.

Attendance is required and absences are only permitted in exceptional
circumstances, with prior approval of PGME.

**Advanced Cardiac Life Support  
** Matched applicants are required to provide proof of ACLS certification
(current as of July 1, 2025) to the PGME office prior to starting their
training program. The ACLS course must be endorsed by the Heart and Stroke
Foundation of Canada and/or the American Heart Association. ACLS training that
is not certified by these two organizations and/or is completed entirely
through an online course will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for
all costs associated with obtaining ACLS certification.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

All applicants must be Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents at the time of
application and must submit a notarized/certified photocopy of one of the
accepted citizenship documents.

Proof of citizenship must be current at the time of application and expired
documents will not be accepted.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum of 7.0 in each of the components

**Language assessment document accepted:**

  1. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on paper at a test venue
  2. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on a computer at a test venue
  3. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine at Home

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum grade of B

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of 9 in all sections

Applicants may be required to provide proof of proficiency in the English
language to meet licensing requirements of the [College of Physicians and
Surgeons (CPSS) of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Licensure/Requirements_Content/English_Language_Proficiency.aspx).

Applicants who graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States,
where English is the language of instruction **are not**  required to submit
proof of English language proficiency.

**Canadian applicants with medical education from the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)  are required
**to meet the English language proficiency requirements of the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan and must complete one of the language
exams listed above.

Applicants who are required to complete a language exam must submit a valid
test score in their CaRMS application **by the deadline for submission and
assignment of applications and documents.** Applicants who do not provide
acceptable proof of language proficiency, if required, will not be ranked.

Applicants must meet all of the criteria in one of the IELTS, OET or CELPIP
examinations. Please note that results from examinations cannot be combined,
unless the testing institution offers a sub-test.  
NOTE: Only OET offers sub-tests. CPSS will accept sub-tests obtained within
the same 24-month period as the original OET exam was sat.

Please direct any questions about language requirements to
[della.toews@usask.ca](mailto:della.toews@usask.ca). Applicants should not
contact CPSS directly about their eligibility for licensure.

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Emergency Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

**Three**  structured reference letters **MUST** accompany your file.  Do
**NOT** send more than 3. Please do not submit letters from senior residents
or fellows. Any attending physician can complete a letter for you; however,
having one or more structured reference letters from an Emergency Medicine
attending physician is encouraged.



Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  750

Maximum :  1000

  

A personal letter is required. We ask that your letter answer four specific
questions listed under 'Selection Criteria'. While AI has many benefits in
life, we would love to see your own personality reflected as you write your
personal letter on your own.

Custom Résumé / CV

Please include your custom CV in your application (ie. not just the CaRMS-
generated CV). Your CaRMS-generated CV will not be reviewed; only your custom
CV will be reviewed.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

{Note: Your photograph is used only as a memory aid only _**AFTER** interviews
have been conducted and scored_}

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Tuesday, January 21, 2025 from 07:00 -
18:00 (UTC-6 Timezone).  
  
Please do not contact the program for an interview. Candidates will be short-
listed for an interview then the program will contact those short-listed
candidates by December 20, 2024 at 17:00 (UTC-6) to offer them a specific
interview. Interviews are required for this program and will be held during
the CaRMS Interview period.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All interviews will be virtual for
the 2025 R1 Match.  
  
Our program follows the AAMC Best Practices for Conducting Residency Program
Interviews. We pay attention to content-related components and evaluation-
related components to ensure our interviews are structured in a way to be
reliable, valid and fair.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

Goals of the University of Saskatchewan Royal College Emergency Medicine
Residency Program:

The University of Saskatchewan Royal College Emergency Medicine Residency
Training Program aims to train Emergency Medicine Specialists who:

      \- Are skilled in resuscitative procedures and able to manage acute illness and injury in all age groups

      \- Possess a sound approach to initial management, treatment and disposition of all chief complaints that present to the Emergency Department

      \- Possess strong organizational skills, can triage and manage multiple acutely ill patients, and can be a leader in disaster situations

      \- Function well within the team environment of the Emergency Department, and are effectively able to negotiate situations of conflict

      \- Successfully integrate work and life within the challenges of working in the ED environment to maintain a strong degree of personal wellness

      \- Contribute to their administrative environment, at the hospital and pre-hospital organizations

      \- Contribute to the academic environment as an effective educator and scholar

      \- Contribute to the overall health of their community, with particular attention being paid to the care of equity-seeking groups

## Selection process goals

The file review and interviews will specifically evaluate candidates on the
following characteristics:

 \- Personal insight into the field of Emergency Medicine

 \- Thoughtful review of the challenges and opportunities of training in our
program

 \- Likelihood of making a significant contribution to the field of Emergency
Medicine

 \- Academic Potential and Community Engagement: Demonstration of involvement
in scholarship, leadership, and/or health advocacy domains

 \- Demonstration of characteristics such as maturity, coachability,
organizational skills, reliability to complete tasks, and maintaining work-
life integration and resilience.

 \- Collaboration: Teamwork and inter-personal skills

 \- Distance Travelled: Insight into how personal and professional adversities
faced, or a recognition of lack of adversities, have contributed to personal
growth and the improved care of equity-seeking ED patient populations.  

## File review process

Review team composition : File Reviewer composition: We aim to be as
transparent and fair as possible regarding our selection process. We are the
first program to publish a formal program evaluation of our selection process.
Minor changes to the process have occurred on a yearly basis, and our current
process is listed below. Of note, despite our publication making note of a
focus on "fit" of applicants with our group, we have since denounced this lens
and instead focus our discussions on ensuring diversity and inclusivity within
our resident group. Applicants may apply to the Saskatoon program, Regina
program, or both programs, and their file and interview will be reviewed using
the same process regardless.  
  
Pre-interview score:  
\- Academic Potential and Community Engagement - 24% (8% Leadership, 8%
Scholarship, 8% Health Advocate); scored using data from custom CV  
\- Personal Letter 42% (value of each question listed below)  
\- Letters of Reference 24% (8% for each letter, focusing on the remaining
CanMEDS domains: Medical Expert, Communicator, Collaborator, Professional)  
\- Casper score 10%  
  
Post-interview score:  
\- Pre-interview score weighted at 60% (i.e. each component from the pre-
interview score is worth 60% of its original value)  
\- Interview score 40% (10% for each interview station)  
  
Candidates will be short-listed for an interview on the basis of their custom
CV, Personal Letter, Casper Test and Letters of Reference. The cumulative
scores of the resident reviewers are weighted equally to the cumulative scores
of the faculty reviewers. Each reviewer completes a standardized scorecard on
a descriptive rubric based on the goals of our residency program and the
categories described above. Pre-interview file reviewers are z-scored to
ensure that no applicant is given an advantage or disadvantage by being
reviewed by a particular reviewer. File reviewers are balanced to ensure each
applicant has a diverse group of file reviewers.  
  
One selection committee member completes an on-line search to review Google
accounts for all applicants to look for any concerns related to
professionalism. Professionalism is defined according to the College of
Medicine Statement on Professionalism.  
  
Each reviewer will rate a maximum of 35 files and are only allowed to review
10 files in a 24-hour period to ensure they dedicate an appropriate amount of
time and attention to each file. Once the application rank list is created, a
selection committee meeting will be held to allow qualitative discussion
amongst the file review teams which will ensure the rank list reflects the top
32 applicants to be invited for interviews. Strict discussion guidelines are
followed to ensure lack of bias and ensure there is a focus on improving
resident diversity within our program. We offer 3 wait lists spots in case any
applicants decline their interview offers; however, it is uncommon for wait
list candidates to be offered an interview.  
  
Candidates invited for an interview will participate in 4 situational
interview stations. Scores on the interview stations will be combined with
scores from the CaRMS file review to create our match rank list. Interview
scores are z-scored. Regardless of the number of interviews per station, each
station is weighted equally. Once again, a selection committee meeting occurs
to allow qualitative discussion amongst the selection committee, to ensure the
match rank list reflects the top applicants, ensures lack of bias, and ensures
there is a focus on improving resident diversity within our program.  
  
  
  

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years:
51-90.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  
32 interviews are offered in total (Saskatoon and Regina applicants combined),
and 3 wait list spots are held.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  CanMEDS roles - Leadership, Scholarship, Health Advocate   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Diversity of electives, at least one EM elective to gain insight into the specialty. No mandated location or specialty requirements.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  All applicants must complete a Casper exam to be eligible for consideration   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of work-life integration and contribution to society   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Diversity of experiences, degree of involvement   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  To assess for behavioral or professionalism issues noted by the College or applicant's clinical supervisors   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  One letter answering four specific questions listed below 1\. Outline your core values and attributes and speak to how they have impacted your development as a clinician and person. (worth 8%) 2\. RCPSC Emergency Medicine Trainees have an opportunity to pursue focused training in other domains relevant to the specialty (eg. toxicology, critical care, medical education etc). If you had to identify one area of Emergency Medicine that you are interested in, what would it be? How would you envision incorporating this subspecialty interest into your career as an emergency physician? (worth 8%) 3\. Reflecting on your experiences and adversities faced and/or witnessed, both personal and professional, how do you feel that you could best serve the patients of Saskatchewan, including our under-served, under-represented, and marginalized populations? (worth 14%) 4\. Why do you want to train in Saskatchewan? Please outline your interest (worth 12%).   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  3 Letters of reference using standard template (2024 version)   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Degree of involvement, relevance to EM   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Not reviewed   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives,
and your completion/absence from completing a local elective will in no way
impact your evaluation.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Managing conflict   
Collegiality |  Working effectively in a team   
Communication skills |  Ability to communicate during the interview   
Health advocacy |  Assessed during file review   
Interest in the discipline |  Assessed through personal letter   
Interest in the program |  Assessed through personal letter   
Leadership skills |  Assessed during file review   
Professionalism |  Growth mindset, resiliency and dealing with adversity   
Scholarly activities |  Assessed during file review   
Other interview component(s) |  Interview format: Situational style interviews, four 12-minute stations (i.e. each station having one main hypothetical scenario for you to respond to, with occasional follow-up questions by the interviewers).   
  
We cannot accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances. The only
accommodations that may be possible are re-scheduling the interview for a
different time on the same date.  
  
  
INTERVIEW COMPONENTS CRITERIA  
  
Station #1 CanMEDS Roles Assessed: Professional, Communicator and Collaborator  
Other Values Assessed: Growth Mindset  
  
Station #2 CanMEDS Roles Assessed: Collaborator, Communicator, Patient
Advocate and Leader  
Other Values Assessed: Composure under pressure  
  
Station #3 CanMEDS Roles Assessed: Patient Advocate and Professional  
Other Values Assessed: Care for marginalized patient populations  
  
Station #4 CanMEDS Roles Assessed: Leader and Professional  
Other Values Assessed: Wellness, Time Management and Resiliency  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  Commitment to Equity, Diversity and Inclusion  
  
The University of Saskatchewan's Royal College Emergency Medicine program is
committed to fostering a training environment that is characterized by respect
and equity, and free from harassment and discrimination. Our program strives
to represent the diversity of our society and people that we serve. To that
end, we are actively working toward ensuring that our selection process is
equitable and inclusive and selects for a diverse group of residents,
particularly those who have traveled larger distances through their own
personal journeys of overcoming marginalization. If you do not see yourself
represented by our current residents and faculty, please know that you will be
welcomed here and that our Program and College have implemented several
resources and initiatives to support you.  
  
Further, we commit to implementing the 8 recommendations in CJEM’s Call to
Action.  
  
We recognize that some applicants have experienced or experience disability,
which can occur in a variety of ways. We are committed to be supportive and
helpful of all residents that match to our program and help accommodate their
needs. More information can be found here:
https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/accommodation-of-residents-with-
disabilities.php#relatedForms  
  
Our efforts to improve the equity, diversity and inclusion of our selection
process are as follows:  
  
• Implicit Bias Training will be completed by all file reviewers and
interviewers.  
• We have consulted with three EDI experts to improve our selection process
(Drs. Erin Prosser-Loose, Manuela Valle-Castro, and Sean Polreis).  
• We continue to encourage CaRMS to improve upon the data that is/isn’t
collected and shared within applicant files, to better improve our process.  
• Increasing the value of primary data (personal letter) and decreasing the
value of secondary data (Letters of Reference)  
• Purposefully involving EM physicians from equity-seeking groups, seeking to
counteract the “minority tax”, in hopes to improve the diversity of our
matched resident group.  
• We denounce “fit” as a component of our process and instead seek to improve
the diversity of our resident group.  
• Undertaking targeted methods to attract the interest of equity deserving
students into Emergency Medicine.  
  
As we attempt to improve the equity, diversity and inclusion of our selection
process, we recognize that we have blind spots and, as such, may not implement
our process to the precision that we desire. We are always open to feedback
from community members, colleagues, and past/present/future applicants
regarding how we can improve.  
  
The following program stakeholders would be more than happy to address
questions/concerns about resident diversity in our program Please feel free to
reach out to them!  
  
Dr. Shayan Shirazi (PGY2 - Saskatoon; shs709@usask.ca)  
Dr. Kedra Peterson (PGY-4 - Saskatoon; hyp216@usask.ca)  
Dr. Ben Carriere (PGY-2 Regina; kzo845@usask.ca)  
Dr. Sachin Trivedi (Faculty Alumni and APD - Saskatoon Site - Curriculum;
sachin.trivedi@usask.ca)  
  
  
Quality Assurance Process:  
Each year on Match Day, the program and its stakeholders go for supper to
celebrate and discuss the match results, with a focused discussion on how the
process can be improved for the year to come.  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Program Overview**

Saskatchewan's Royal College Emergency Medicine training program is run
through the University of Saskatchewan College of Medicine and has its main
training site in Saskatoon and its distributed site in Regina. Founded in July
2011, we currently have 17 residents across all years of training and have
graduated 21 specialists from the program, with 16 of those 21 graduates
having stayed to work in Saskatchewan. In 2023 we expanded to include Regina
as a distributed training site and currently have two residents based at this
site, and 15 residents based in Saskatoon.

**Distributed Learning**

The College of Medicine, while physically located in Saskatoon, is a
provincial resource in attitude and in practice. Postgraduate medical
education at the University of Saskatchewan takes seriously its role in
supporting quality health care to all people of the province. This means
training physicians to meet the needs of, not only urban populations, but also
those of rural and remote populations. In so doing, the College of Medicine
has developed, and continues to develop, rotations in Saskatoon, Regina, and
other communities. These rotations are designed to provide educational
experiences to enhance the resident's knowledge and skills and take maximum
advantage of unique educational opportunities in a diversity of communities.
All postgraduate programs are expected to develop and incorporate into their
curriculum rotations in communities other than their primary training site of
Saskatoon or Regina. The way each program does this is not strictly prescribed
by the College of Medicine - but is determined by the Residency Program
Committee, taking into consideration the needs of their residents, and the
excellent opportunities available in other locations. These rotations continue
to evolve as we seek to build stronger and better programs.

Extensive support is available for rotations completed at other sites in the
province. The exact nature of this support varies with location and program.
The communities involved, individual programs, the College of Medicine, and
the Ministry of Health work collaboratively to ensure residents are not
financially disadvantaged by the need to relocate. Temporary housing is
available at no expense to residents who leave their home site to complete
short term mandatory rotations at distributed sites in Saskatchewan. Please
review the [PGME Housing Guidelines](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/pgme-
housing-guidelines-pgme-housing-application-for-short-term-mandatory-
rotation.php#relatedForms) for more detailed information.

Residents in the Saskatoon Royal College EM Residency Program should plan to
complete 3 blocks of Emergency Medicine in Regina (PGY-1, 2 & 5), 1 block of
toxicology in Calgary or New York (PGY-3), and 1 block of regional/rural
Emergency Medicine at their site of choice (PGY-4). Residents are welcome to
spend more time in Regina for both EM and off-service rotations if they wish.

**Teaching Sites:**

_Saskatoon_

The Royal University Hospital (RUH) Adult Emergency Department in Saskatoon is
physically located within the new Jim Pattison Children's Hospital (JPCH) on
the University of Saskatchewan campus and has a total annual volume of ~
80,000 patients per year with at 20% admission rate. It is the city's trauma
centre, where Emergency Physicians are an integral part of the trauma team.
Most consultant services are present at this site, and it is the main teaching
hospital for the College of Medicine.

The JPCH Pediatric Emergency Department is located adjacent to the Adult ED,
with shared resuscitation and diagnostic imaging space. It is separately
staffed, seeing ~ 28,000 patients per year. Pediatric ER faculty frequently
contribute to academic teaching for our program.

St. Paul's Hospital (SPH) Emergency Department has an annual volume of ~
37,000 patients with a 15% admission rate. It serves a high proportion of
inner-city patients. Nephrology, Urology, Vascular Surgery, Plastic Surgery,
and Thoracic Surgery are the consult services primarily based at this site.

Saskatoon City Hospital (SCH) Emergency Department has an annual volume of ~
22,000 patients and an admission rate of 1%. It is open from 09:00-20:30 daily
and serves as an Urgent Care Centre. All patients requiring admission are
transferred off site. The inpatient services now mainly serve patients
awaiting long-term care, rehab services and day surgery for a number of
surgical specialties.

_Regina_

The Regina General Hospital (RGH) Emergency Department has an annual volume of
~ 60,000 patients with a 20% admission rate. It is the main trauma centre for
Regina, where Emergency Physicians are an integral part of the trauma team.
Most consultant services are based at this site.

The Pasqua Hospital (PH) Emergency Department in Regina has an annual volume
of ~ 40,000 patients with a 17% admission rate. It serves a high proportion of
inner-city patients.

Residents from many specialty programs at the University of Saskatchewan spend
some clinical time in Regina. There is a growing number of specialty programs
with training based in Regina. There is also a Family Medicine-Emergency
Medicine enhanced skills program based in Regina.

**The City:**

Saskatoon, nestled along the South Saskatchewan River, boasts a diverse array
of highlights that showcase its unique charm and appeal. With a population of
around 300,000, this vibrant city blends urban amenities with a touch of
natural beauty.

The iconic Meewasin Valley Trail winds through the heart of Saskatoon,
offering locals and visitors picturesque views of the river, parks, and green
spaces. The River Landing development has become a focal point, providing a
modern waterfront experience with restaurants, shops, and cultural events.

Culture thrives in Saskatoon, evident in its numerous galleries, theatres, and
music venues. The Remai Modern Art Gallery, a renowned institution, houses an
impressive collection of contemporary and indigenous art. The Broadway Theatre
and the SaskTel Centre host a variety of performances, from live music to
theatrical productions.

Food enthusiasts will find a haven in Saskatoon's diverse culinary scene. The
city is known for its local flavors, featuring dishes that celebrate its
agricultural heritage, like Saskatoon berries. The vibrant farmer's markets
and restaurants offer an opportunity to savor these unique tastes.

Saskatoon embraces its indigenous roots, with cultural events and celebrations
honoring First Nations traditions. Wanuskewin Heritage Park stands as a
testament to the region's deep history, showcasing indigenous art,
archaeological sites, and interactive exhibits.

For outdoor enthusiasts, the city offers ample opportunities for recreation.
River activities such as kayaking and canoeing are popular, while nearby parks
like Beaver Creek Conservation Area and Cranberry Flats Conservation Area
provide hiking and bird-watching opportunities.

The city's festivals also add to its allure. The Saskatoon Jazz Festival,
Saskatoon Fringe Theatre Festival, and the Folk Fest draw crowds from near and
far, infusing the city with a vibrant atmosphere.

In Summary, Saskatoon's blend of natural beauty, thriving arts and culture
scene, delectable cuisine, and celebration of indigenous heritage make it an
enchanting destination for potential applicants in the match.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Rotation Curriculum**



**PGY 1** |  **PGY2** |  **PGY 3** |  **PGY 4** |  **PGY 5**  
---|---|---|---|---  
EM |  EM |  EM (Regina) |  EM (Regional) |  EM  
EM |  EM |  EM |  EM |  EM  
EM |  EM |  EM |  EM |  EM  
EM (Regina) |  EM |  EM |  EM |  EM  
EM |  EM |  EM or Elective |  EM |  EM  
EM |  EM |  EM or Elective |  EM |  EM  
EM |  EM |  PEM |  EM or Elective |  PEM  
EM |  PEM |  CCU |  EM or Elective |  Trauma  
EM/Ophtho |  Plastics |  ICU or Transport |  PEM |  Transport  
Ortho |  Psychiatry |  ICU |  PICU |  ACE  
CCU |  Anesthesia |  ICU |  Trauma |  ACE  
PEM |  Obs/Gyne |  IM |  Ortho |  ACE  
PEM |  General Surgery |  Toxicology |  Anesthesia |  ACE  
  
All rotations are completed in Saskatoon unless listed otherwise.

Vacation (4 weeks yearly) is preferentially taken during EM blocks.

Flexibility exists to move rotations between years in certain circumstances.



**Stages of Training**

**PGY1** : Transition to Discipline & Foundations of Discipline

The resident will spend the majority of the year being exposed to Emergency
Medicine in order to develop the framework for acquisition of expertise during
off-service rotations later in residency. Each EM block will consist of 14
shifts, and residents will also attend other academic and curricular
requirements.

**Longitudinal  Rotations and Extra-Curriculum Courses**

For every EM block in the first two years of residency, residents will
complete 3 x 12 hour Toxicology call shifts with PADIS (Poison and Drug
Information System).

Residents can take up to 4 weeks during their EM blocks over their first two
years of residency to dedicate time to their research project as it is
mandatory for all residents to complete a scholarly project during residency.
Funding is available for residents to take a research course if they choose.

We have monthly resident research rounds. The first session of the year sees
all faculty share current research projects, so new residents can get an idea
of projects they might be able to join. From there we break into three streams
based on the CAEP Research Abstract Competition: Clinical, Education
Scholarship & Quality Improvement Patient Safety (QIPS).  Residents identify
which stream their project is in and attend these sessions (3 sessions over
the year per stream) where they can share any challenges they are facing with
their projects. We then have  a session on tips for presenting research just
before our research day, and tips for disseminating research to finish the
year.

PGY1 residents participate in 4 focused critical appraisal workshops. The
topics are: Diagnosis i (Sensitivity, Specificity, LRs, PPV, NPV, Accuracy),
Diagnosis II (Clinical Decision Tools, Receiver Operator Curves), Therapy I
(Randomized Controlled Trials, NNT, ARR, RRR), and Therapy II (Systematic
Reviews). Sentinel EM articles are utilized for discussion, and residents are
given an assignment to be handed in for marking at the end of each session.
PGY5 residents assist in teaching these sessions.

All first-year residents will take _The Role of Practitioners in Indigenous
Wellness Course.  _This award-winning online course runs over a 3-month period
during the PGY1 year. _https://cmelearning.usask.ca/online-
learning/indigenous-wellness.php_

Residents are also enrolled in ImageSim, an on-line self-directed Pediatric
Imaging Learning system and are expected to complete the modules during their
Pediatric EM rotations, during the Foundations phase of training.

The Resuscitation and Procedural Inter-Disciplinary (RaPID) curriculum covers
basic resuscitation skills, introductory ultrasound and central venous access.
Sessions are scheduled throughout the first year of training.

TIPS is a 2-day College of Medicine Residents as teacher's course, preceded by
an online 'Residents as Teachers' course. It covers topics on: how people
learn, motivation, attention, structure of a teaching session, power point for
teaching, clinical teaching techniques, and feedback.

Family medicine shifts are completed longitudinally through PGY-1.

During each EM rotation in PGY-1, you will participate in a Collaborator shift
where you find an allied health professional or service that we interact with
in the ED and spend a few hours and write up a reflection on your experience.

CanMEDS rounds cover topics that are difficult to assess in the confines of
clinical work, including Time Management & Strategies for Learning, Charting
in the ED, Communication with Special Populations, Safe Opioid prescribing,
Crucial Conversations, Requesting & Receiving Consultations, Breaking Bad
News, and Disclosing Adverse Events.

**PGY2 - PGY4: Core of Discipline**

Residents will ideally present their research project at our annual research
day near the end of the academic year in PGY2 or 3.

We have an inter-university affiliation (IUA) with the University of Calgary
for our Toxicology PADIS rotation. Residents spend one block in Calgary in
PGY3. New York City is also a training option.

Two longitudinal rotations will occur (EMS and Education) in this year.
Residents are given a slight reduction in their shift load during EM rotations
to carry out the learning activities of these longitudinal rotations. The
junior education curriculum provides residents with feedback on their large
group teaching, provides resources to read on improving one's education
skillset, provides opportunity for teaching medical students history and
physical exam skills, and graded management of learners on shift.

Transfusion Camp is run by the Department of Anesthesia and offers additional
training in the areas of transfusion-based resuscitation.

There are elective opportunities in PGY3 & 4 to pursue areas of interest.
Elective blocks are flexible, and residents will generally use them for
additional sub-specialty experience or applying for jobs/fellowships.

**PGY4**  

In PGY-4, residents will consolidate their knowledge and skills in this final
year of core. They will also spend one month in a regional ED (usually in
North Battleford or Prince Albert, though other opportunities exist and are
open to consideration) to gain the perspective of working outside of a
tertiary care environment. Residents will complete their Royal College exam
near the end of PGY4, after participating in a rigorous written and oral exam
preparation curriculum throughout the year.

**PGY5****: Transition to Practice**  

Residents will be expected to function as a junior staff in the ED, and will
serve as Lead Residents for the program. They will participate in a
longitudinal Administrative rotation, as well as a Quality Improvement and
Patient Safety Curriculum, and a Transition to Practice curriculum focusing on
career planning, financial literacy, medicolegal aptitude and professional
expectations, leadership, and improving independence.

In PGY-5, residents will work to develop an Area of Comprehensive Expertise
(ACE). That can be in any clinical or academic area that will enhance the
practice of Emergency Medicine. If residents are performing well, they can
integrate this time longitudinally to work towards a focused training program
or Master's degree.  Ideally the resident will model their future work
schedule with a mix of ED work and their proposed niche of expertise.

The senior education curriculum provides opportunity for PGY-5's to improve
their skillset as educators as they work shifts where they focus on
departmental management learner management concurrently, take a simulation
debriefing course, facilitate simulation sessions, co-lead Rosen's Rounds, and
assist with oral exam preparation for the PGY-4 residents, all under the
supervision of faculty who provide feedback on their teaching.

Some local options for ACE are Pre-hospital care and Ultrasound.

The University of Saskatchewan has options for Masters Degrees in Business
Administration (https://www.edwards.usask.ca/programs/mba/), Public Health
(https://grad.usask.ca/programs/public-health.php), and Health Professions
Education (https://grad.usask.ca/programs/health-professions-education.php).

The College of Medicine has a Medical Education Fellowship Program
(https://medicine.usask.ca/facultydev/teaching%20and%20learning/clinician-
educator.php).

The Saskatchewan Health Authority offers the CQIP - Clinical Quality
Improvement Program (https://www.saskhealthquality.ca/training-
webinars/cqip/).

We do not offer formal fellowships in ICU, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, or
Toxicology, but have successfully matched residents to these fellowships (and
other fellowships) but will work closely with residents who are interested to
ensure they have as many opportunities as possible to explore these career
opportunities in Saskatchewan or elsewhere. We will do our best to support
resident interests in other areas of expertise, however our priority will
always to be ensure clinical competence in Emergency Medicine in the final
year of training.

**Curriculum Disclaimer**

The above curriculum is not set in stone. Modifications to the curriculum have
been and will be considered every 6 months as part of the program's semi-
annual curriculum-review retreats (mixed social event/curriculum review).  

* * *

# Training Sites

**Academic Curriculum**

**Overview:**

Over the past year we overhauled our academic curriculum with the goal being
to utilize more active learning techniques, remove redundancies within the
curriculum, and delve more into the depths, not just the breadths, of
emergency medicine. This curriculum, outlined below, is now in its first year
of implementation and has received promising initial feedback from residents.

_Academic Half Day (AHD)_ takes place on Wednesday afternoons.  It is shared
with the CFPC-EM Program, which runs a distributed program in Saskatoon,
Regina & Swift Current. AHD is video-conferenced between all three sites.
Academic Full Days (AFD) occur approximately twice per month, often including
practice exams and simulation sessions in the morning.

**_Components:_**

_Resident-Led Topic Presentations -  _These 25-minute talks are a focused and
in-depth review of 2-3 major issues within a given topic.

_Staff-Led Case Presentations -  _These 25-minute interactive cases illustrate
clinical reasoning and application of knowledge through real-time management
of cases, delivered by faculty emergency physicians. Cases are delivered b
physicians at all three training sites.

**Resident-Led Peds Guidelines Rounds**

A two-year curriculum covering the top 22 pediatric EM guidelines has been
developed, new this year, whereby residents pre-read the provided guidelines
and then participate in this resident-led session that aims to focus on the
application of the guidelines to common EM cases.

**Staff-Led Adult Guidelines Rounds**

A two-year curriculum covering the top 18 adult EM guidelines has been
developed, new this year, whereby residents pre-read the provided guidelines
and then participate in this staff-led session that aims to focus on the
application of the guidelines to common EM cases.

**Consultant Rounds**

We have implemented Consultant Rounds, which are sessions led by non-EM
physicians, focusing on skills that have room for improvement based on the
perspective of our non-EM consultant colleagues.

**Group Learning**

We have implemented group learning sessions, which are sessions led by
residents that focus on interactive and group-based learning on the topics of
the monthly Rosen's textbook readings. These sessions provide opportunity for
group discussion and delving into the depths of emergency medicine.

**Self-Directed Learning**

In order to remove curriculum redundancies and support residents wellness, we
offer self-directed learning time for residents to complete their assigned
curriculum tasks during protected AHD time.

**Provincial Grand Rounds**

The provincial Department of Emergency Medicine facilitates Provincial Grand
Rounds. Residents are encouraged to attend and have protected time to do so if
they wish.

**Trauma Rounds**

Residents are encouraged to attend monthly Trauma Rounds.

**SEMAC (Saskatchewan Emergency Medicine Annual Conference)**

SEMAC is a conference that targets Family Physicians and Emergency Physicians
who work in regional and rural Saskatchewan. It is a great conference for
residents and medical students to attend.

**Wellness Rounds**

Once a month we have a presentation on a wellness topic, followed by a group
activity session (fitness and non-fitness options). The goal is to promote
regular healthy habits in the busy life of a resident, to provide an
opportunity for residents to bond outside of work-related duties and to build
resiliency in our residents. All physical activities are scalable and
adaptable to be inclusive to all, and efforts have been made to have a mix of
fitness and non-fitness activities. Wellness rounds are optional for
residents, recognizing that wellness looks different to different people.

**Procedure Rounds**

Procedure Rounds follow a curriculum that is based on the core procedures of
emergency medicine and are designed to provide residents with simulated
experiences for procedures that they will be expected to perform and collect
EPAs on during their clinical rotations. The first half of the session will
focus on more advanced procedures (typically led by a staff physician) and the
second half of the session will typically be led by residents. Occasionally,
allied health professionals or staff/resident physicians from other discipline
will facilitate these sessions.

**EMS  Rounds**

The Royal College EM Residency Program serves as an adjunct Medical Advisor
for Ground Ambulance Services in Saskatchewan, under the supervision of Dr.
Owen Scheirer (Central Zone Lead) and Dr. Kamini Erker (Provincial Lead). The
Chief Residents chair these meetings and keep minutes to ensure all tasks
related to this position are delegated and completed.  All tasks are reviewed
by Dr. Scheirer. Mini-topic presentations occur and cover key components of
the EMS curriculum.  This position serves as part of our longitudinal EMS
rotation in the PGY3 year. Money earned from this position is used by the
residents to pay for educational expenses.

**Ultrasound Rounds**

Our ultrasound curriculum is stratified by years of training. PGY1 residents
focus on FAST scan (free fluid abdomen, lung, heart) and procedural guidance
(central line placement) through the RAPID course.  PGY2 residents focus on
Obstetrical, Renal and Aorta scanning.  PGY3 residents focus on resuscitative
ultrasound (advanced cardiac, lung, IVC).  Once per month residents meet and
review an ultrasound topic, then proceed to practice scanning with supervising
faculty.  Residents are expected to log a target number of scans each year,
with a percentage of them being observed as EPAs.  There is an ultrasound exam
at the end of each year.

**SuperSIM  **

Residents participate in 6 inter-disciplinary high-fidelity simulation
sessions per year based on our resuscitation curriculum themes being: Cardiac,
Shock, Toxicology, Trauma, Geriatrics & Airway. Residents also participate in
2 simulation sessions during each of their Pediatric EM rotations.

The Geriatrics SuperSIM and Toxicology SuperSIM are hosted within our annual
special AFD's: Geri-EM Day and Tox-Day. Additionally, for the last 3 years, we
have hosted a Disaster Day which is an AFD focusing on mass casualty training
with a high-fidelity large-scale simulation event and other learning
modalities as well.

**Simulation for Assessment**

PGY1 residents participate in Transition to Discipline simulation sessions in
July, targeting EPA 1.1 (recognizing the sick patient) and Foundations
simulations sessions during the RAPID course targeting EPA 2.1 (assisting in
the care of an ill patient).  PGY-2 & 3 residents participate in Difficult
Airway simulation sessions targeting EPA 3.3 (Airway management).

**Journal Club**

Our combined resident and faculty provincial journal club runs quarterly over
the year in the evenings.  

**Textbook Rosen's Rounds**

Emergency Medicine Residents will be assigned monthly reading of Rosen's
textbook of Emergency Medicine.  The bulk of this textbook is covered every
two years. A faculty member develops exam style questions on the assigned
reading, and residents write a low-stakes practice exam during protected AHD
time.  The answers to the questions are reviewed the following week during an
evening social event over supper, generally hosted at the faculty member's
house.

New this year is a reading schedule that is more purposefully designed to
ensure a variety of topics/chapters are covered each month (as opposed to the
previous schedule where multiple chapters from the same topic were read in the
month). This will provide greater variety and intermingling of concepts for
learners.

**Canadian In Training Exam (CITE)**

The Canadian In-Training Exam is a short answer style exam, designed to
reflect the style and content of the Royal College Exam.  It is written in the
Fall and Winter, and scores are compared nationally to give residents a sense
of their progress in training.  Our monthly textbook rounds are designed to
prepare residents for this type of exam.

**Practice Oral Exams**

Emergency Medicine Residents will be exposed to at least one practice oral
exam session per year, and several in their final year.  We also run an annual
mock oral exam, where residents participate in 12 oral exam cases over 2.5
hours.  This exam is modelled after the Royal College oral exam format.

**The above curriculum may seem like a lot, but it has been purposely mapped
and regularly reviewed to ensure residents are given the best opportunity to
be competent Emergency Medicine Specialists!  **

**A Robust Program of Assessment**

Each resident is assigned a Royal College Faculty Academic Advisor (AA) and a
CCFP-EM Longitudinal Supervisor/Mentor. When on EM rotations, residents work
at least a couple of shifts with each of these physicians, who can provide
insightful feedback on their progress through repeated longitudinal exposure.
Residents will collect EPA (Entrustable Professional Activity) assessments
during their rotations, in line with our Competency by Design educational
model. Three times yearly, residents will review all of their assessment data
(EPAs, practice exam scores, other assessment data), fill out a self-
assessment form on their progress, and have a meeting with their Academic
Advisor to review their progress.  AAs have been trained in a local coaching
model based on the self-regulated learning theory to help residents set goals
for the next quarter. The resident and AA submit a report to the Competence
Committee (CC). One CC member completes primary review of the resident's
assessment data, as well as the self-assessment and AA report. They present
their findings to the CC members for discussion and recommendations for
progress decision. Targeted learning goals are summarized. The Program
Directors meet with each resident shortly after the CC meeting to share their
progress decision and learning plan. The summary of their progress and
learning plan are sent to the AA and Longitudinal Supervisor/'Mentor for
focused coaching on shift.

Because of this robust spectrum of assessment, and our smaller program, we can
ensure each resident achieves their academic goals and grows into an effective
specialist Emergency physician.

**Program Perks**

**Funding:**

We have multiple sources of revenue to support your education. Because of
this, we are able to reimburse you for many training costs including Rosen's
textbooks, Roberts and Hedges' textbooks, ATLS course, PALS course, Airway
Course, NRP Course, ATLS Instructor Course, ACLS Instructor Course, PALS
Instructor Course, Exam Prep courses, $3000 toward your ACE, $2000 toward
presenting at a conference once, $500 for annual conference attendance, travel
for all mandatory learning, and other expenses on a case-by-case basis.

**Self-Scheduling:**

Starting in PGY-3, you will self-schedule all of your EM shifts. Residents
really enjoy this perk as it is more realistic to staff practices and allows
them to schedule around their personal lives and promote personal wellness.

**Retreats:**

The Program hosts a fall retreat and summer retreat each year, which serves as
both a social event and curriculum review opportunity. Additionally, the
residents host a faculty-free wellness retreat (usually skiing or something
else fun), partially funded by the program.

**Summary:**

Thank you for considering us as your future training program. We look forward
to reviewing your application!  Please reach out if we can provide you with
further information about our program.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27385?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27385