#  Western University - Nuclear Medicine - London  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on November 29, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. David Laidley  

Address Nuclear Medicine  
LHSC-University Hospital  
339 Windermere Road  
London, ON N6A 5A5, Ontario  

Work  519-685-8500 xt. 32615

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Department of Medical Imaging/Nuclear Medicine
](http://www.schulich.uwo.ca/medimaging/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. David Laidley

Title: Program Director

Email: david.laidley@lhsc.on.ca

Phone: 519-685-8500 ext. 32615

  

Name: Kelsey Klages

Title: Manager

Email: kelsey.klages@lhsc.on.ca

  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided (by submitting one
of the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.
Failure to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.
No other forms of verification are acceptable.  

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of card must be provided and legible.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three reference letters required. Referee should be senior resident or staff.
References will not be accepted after the CaRMS official deadline.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter will be required indicating reasons for interest in nuclear
medicine.

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applicants must demonstrate a strong academic performance to be considered for
an interview.  We do not consider elective choice, nor onsite electives as a
screening measure for interviews.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 28, 2025
  * January 29, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held January 28, 2025,
and if needed, January 29, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Applicants selected for an interview
will be notified by email.  
  
All interviews will be virtual.  The interview process takes approximately 1.5
hours. The Program Director, faculty representatives from the Residency
Program Committee and the Chief Resident will be involved in the interviewing
process. Interviews are meant to introduce as many faculty members as possible
in order to best illustrate the diverse and comprehensive nature of the
program.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

-an acceptable academic record

-candidates should indicate the reasons for their interest in nuclear medicine in a personal letter

-three reference letters

-strong interpersonal skills



## Program goals

The Division of Nuclear Medicine provides high quality patient care through:
collaborative provision of diagnostics and therapies; development of future
leaders; advancement in research, and innovation in education.  Along with
this, our residency program's goal is to graduate fully rounded physicians
with excellent communication and collaboration skills who will become future
leaders in the field of Nuclear Medicine.

## Selection process goals

A successful applicant would be required to have excellent communication and
collaboration skills in addition to the other CanMEDS roles during the
interview and with supporting documents.  Must be well-rounded, hard-working,
have a positive attitude, a great work ethic, have flexibility, determination
and be a team player with the ability to work in harmony with co-workers; be
eager and willing to add to their knowledge base and skills.

## File review process

Review team composition : Program Director of Nuclear Medicine, 4 faculty
members and one senior resident

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Transcript, grades, supervisor comments, publications   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Elective discipline is not used as a screening measure for an interview.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteer work, hobbies, team/committee involvement activities.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Membership and activities to professional societies.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Clerkship record and rotations   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Outline why you are choosing this discipline.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  From faculty who directly supervised candidate   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Relevance and number of publications   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Detailed grades with supervisor comments   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Elective choice is not used as a screening measure for
an interview. A demonstrated interest in our discipline is preferred.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Interview questions will assess understanding of the importance of collaboration in Nuclear Medicine   
Collegiality |  Interaction with colleagues and staff   
Communication skills |  Interaction with colleagues and staff   
Health advocacy |  We do not evaluate this interview component.   
Interest in the discipline |  Knowledge of our program   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest in our discipline   
Leadership skills |  Information taken from CV   
Professionalism |  Transcript details with supervisor comments   
Scholarly activities |  Information taken from CV.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Residency Training Program Start Date - All programs at Western commence on
July 1st, with a one-day orientation in London, Ontario through Western
University on a date to be announced.**

Training in nuclear medicine involves extensive exposure to in vivo clinical
imaging, in vivo non-imaging radiotracer studies, radionuclide therapies and
radioimmunoassays.

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

-Victoria Hospital

-St. Joseph's Hospital

-University Hospital

The faculty consists of 7 nuclear medicine physicians, 5 medical physicists,
and 1 chemist.

  

The Nuclear Medicine Program at Western has one of the largest number of
nuclear medicine specialists on faculty in relation to the number of trainees.
It has a long history of success in training Canadian and International
residents and fellows and maintains a very high success rate at the Royal
College Examinations.

The physical resources of the program are excellent, with state-of-the-art
equipment of varying manufacturers being present. Western has Canada's first
PET-MR scanner, located only steps away from the PET-CT scanner in the Nuclear
Medicine department at St. Joseph's Hospital. Access to this cutting-edge
technology gives residents unique opportunities for research and collaboration
between Nuclear Medicine and Radiology. Having access to this technology also
allows residents the chance to evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of a
variety of hardware, thus providing them with the ability to make rational
decisions in the future regarding equipment choices in their own nuclear
medicine departments.

The teaching staff of the department includes nuclear medicine physicians with
a diverse mixture of backgrounds in internal medicine, radiology and nuclear
medicine, a radiopharmacist, a chemist and a large number of physicists. The
staff are committed to teaching and the residents receive excellent training
in the basic sciences, including bi-annual in-house courses in physics and
radiopharmacy. The large number and variety of procedures performed in each
hospital allow the residents broad exposure to nuclear medicine imaging.







* * *

# Additional Information

Currently there are 3 residents enrolled in the residency program.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26395?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26395