#  McGill University - Emergency Medicine - Montreal

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Regular Stream for All  

##  Last approved on September 05, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Vincent Poirier  

Address McGill Emergency Medicine Residency Program  
Royal Victoria Hospital  
1001 Boul Décarie, Room CS1.6237.1  
Montreal, Quebec , Quebec, H4A 3J1  

Work  514-934-1934 (ext 36974)

Fax  514-843-2875

Websites of Interest [ McGill Emergency Medicine
](http://www.mcgill.ca/emergency)  
[ McGill Medicine - Post Grad Medical Education ](
http://www.medicine.mcgill.ca/postgrad/ )  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Alison Hayter

Title: Program Administrator

Email: residency.emergencymed@mcgill.ca

Phone: 514-934-1934 (ext 36974)

  

* * *

# Important Information

McGill University proudly welcomes an international cohort of residents into
its Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) each year. Residents gain valuable
experience serving a diverse, multicultural community in French and English.
In Quebec, residents are legally required to care for patients in French and
in English. Therefore, PGME provides residents with French language
acquisition tools and resources to help ensure each can care for Francophone
patients, as well as fully benefit from their training experience.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

The application can be submitted in English or French.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP must be submitted with each application.  
EITHER:

  * A copy of Canadian Birth Certificate or a copy of Certificate of Canadian Citizenship

OR

  * A copy of Permanent Resident Card (copy of both sides of the card) OR a copy of an IMM 5292, IMM 1000, IMM 5688;   
NB: the Permanent Resident card can be expired.

OR

  * A copy of Citizenship Card (copy of both sides of the card)

P.S: the passport is not an acceptable proof of citizenship.

Each year, all candidates applying in a CaRMS match must provide proof of
valid current citizenship or permanent resident status. As of the 2021 R-1
match cycle, CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate
the citizenship/legal status verification, which is usually completed by
Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) offices.

if an applicant has had their citizenship/legal status documentation verified
by any of the following organizations for the current R-1 match, the applicant
will not be required to assign a proof of citizenship/PR document (as pictured
in the screenshot below).

  * Medical Council of Canada ([MCC](https://mcc.ca/))
  * British Columbia's Clinical Assessment Program ([BC-CAP](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/clinical-assessment/))
  * Bureau de cooperation interuniversitaire ([BCI](https://www.bci-qc.ca/en/))
  * Alberta International Medical Graduate Program ([AIMG](https://www.aimg.ca/))

For further information, please check the following link on CaRMS:
[https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-
citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-)

Examinations

Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the MCCQE Part I exam, please include the statement of
results and supplemental information report in your application.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the NAC exam, please include the statement of results and
supplemental information report in your application. The MCCQE Part II or
Certificate of Registration of the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada
(LMCC) is accepted in place of the NAC Examination.

Reference documents

Required

Emergency Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Three (3) Emergency Medicine structures reference letters are required. It is
recommended to have one from an Emergency Physician but not mandatory.
References from senior residents are not accepted. References will not be
accepted after the CaRMS reference letter deadline.





Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Photograph required, used for memory aid.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  850

  

A letter describing your interest in Emergency Medicine, detailing as much as
possible career interests, leadership qualities, academic accomplishments, is
required.  Please specifically address these questions in your letter:

Important: Limit of 850 words.

\- Why are you interested in Emergency Medicine as a career?

\- What do you see as the challenges facing the specialty of Emergency
Medicine currently and in the future?

\- What do you see as potential personal challenges of a career in Emergency
Medicine?

\- How have you demonstrated leadership in your professional or personal life
so far?

\- Why are you choosing  the 5-year Royal College training program instead of
the CCFP-EM track?

\- Why do you want to train at McGill?

\- Why do you want to live in Montreal/Quebec?

\- Where do you see yourself, as an Emergency physician, in ten years?



Custom Résumé / CV

Curriculum Vitae/CV is required.

Additional required IMG documents

Lettre de reconnaissance de l'équivalence du diplôme MD

Please provide the results of the exams that permitted you to have your
medical degree recognized and approved by the CMQ.

Graduates with the diploma of doctor of osteopathy awarded by a school of
osteopathic medicine situated in the United States providing that the school
is accredited by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the
American Osteopathic Association do not have to obtain the recognition of the
equivalence of the medical diploma by the CMQ. These graduates do not require
the MCCQE Part I, the National Assessment Collaboration (NAC), or the
Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada (LMCC) in order to apply.

Medical School Diploma

**For IMGs:** In addition to a copy of your Medical Degree, it isnecessary to
provide the equivalence letter from the CMQ (Collège des médecins du Québec).

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will take place on January 20,
2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The interviews will be held via zoom
on January 20, 2025.  The social event will take place, virtually, on the
evening of January 19, 2025 EST. This will be a time to meet some of the
current residents and staff in order to ask any questions you may have about
the Program. The interview day will run from approximately 8:00 to 17:30.
Start and finish times for each candidate will be variable, depending on the
personalized schedule. The process itself consists of 2 interviews (either in
the morning or afternoon). All candidates will have a 15 minute interview with
the Program Director and a 20-30 minute interview with 1 of 2 panels
(consisting of one staff and one resident).  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

A strong academic record, with proficiency in wide areas (correlating with the
horizontal nature of the specialty). A proven interest in our specialty.
Demonstrated leadership skills. Interest in developing an academic career and
a willingness to be actively involved in research, administration, teaching,
(i.e. someone who wants to be more than a clinical physician). References from
emergency specialists who are involved in academic careers. Excellent
communication and interpersonal skills.

## Program goals

Our residents will demonstrate excellent clinical skills with particular
attention to technical skills. They will develop enhanced communication skills
and excel at working in a team environment. Residents in our program will also
be very involved in different initiatives within the program. They will
strengthen and develop research, administrative, and leadership skills. A
strong work work-life balance is very encouraged with involvement in extra-
curricular activities.

## Selection process goals

Identify applicants who have a strong interest in Emergency Medicine.

Applicants must have excellent communication skills and work well in a
collaborative team environment.

Applicants must have demonstrated strong leadership skills and a proficiency
in all CanMeds roles.

Applicants must have an interest in Academic EM with specific interests in
research, teaching or administrative roles.

Applicants must be willing to get involved in different aspects of the program
such as teaching, social events, administrative roles within the residency
itself.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team is made up of the Program Director,
Chief residents and select faculty and senior residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We evaluate the content including electives, research and academic record.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Clinical evaluations (in particular those related to Emergency Medicine)   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  FOR IMGs: Please see "Additional Documents" section for requirements.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering (medical and non-medical) and mentoring.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Holding office in a student government, organization, or club.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstrated interpersonal skills.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in discipline and program location.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interaction with healthcare team and willingness to learn.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in participating in future research projects.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Electives in Emergency Medicine as well as related speciaties such as
Anesthesia, Trauma, ICU are encouraged.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high quality patient care working in a team environment.   
Collegiality |  Behavior, attitude, ability to work well with others.   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak and write in English.   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrated during different rotations or extra-curricular activities or projects.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated interest in EM and ability to adapt to the environment in an ED.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest in living in Montreal and knowledge of the program.   
Leadership skills |  Should be demonstrated in previous involvement in medical care or other activity.   
Professionalism |  Assess interaction with staff and residents on interview day.   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Hello future Emergency Medicine Resident!

If you strive for excellence, aspire to become a leader in the field, and feel
that you deserve the best training in a fantastic cosmopolitan city, then
McGill EM is the place for you. While there are many excellent EM programs
across the country that provide training to become emergency medicine
specialists, none are quite like McGill.  We are undisputedly one of the top
programs in North America.  Our standards of excellence and reputation are
well renowned and portable to almost anywhere in the world. While it is
impossible to enumerate all the strengths of such a program, we have prepared
a list that will help you understand why McGill should be your number one
choice.

  1. **State of the Art Simulation Center** : McGill is home to one of the largest, most comprehensive medical simulation centers in Canada. With dedicated staff, patient actors, conference rooms, procedure rooms, and high fidelity simulation rooms, the possibilities for learning are virtually endless.

Practice procedures such as intubations, cricothyroidotomies, bronchoscopies,
chest tube insertions, ultrasound-guided central lines, and
pericardiocentesis, all under the direct guidance of experts in the field.

Participate in scenarios that have been developed specifically to focus on
skills rare or difficult to practice in the clinical setting but essential in
critical circumstances and develop confidence and integrate knowledge with
technical proficiency when you are faced with the real world situations.

You will have the chance to develop your own simulation during your senior
years. Examples of previous Sim Days include:

    * Disaster management – Learn field triage scenarios and training with Hazmat equipment
    * Airway Day – Assess patients with difficult airways and practice using rescue devices
    * Critical Cases in the ED – Manage the septic child, the unstable GI bleed, and the patient with anaphylactic shock
    * Communication skills – Practice breaking bad news, dealing with medical errors, resolving inter-professional conflict, and handling unruly or violent patients. 

** **

  2. **Dedicated Ultrasound Rotation - a McGill Innovation** :  McGill has a dedicated emergency ultrasound rotation that combines didactic and practical ultrasound training with emergency ultrasound independent practitioners (CEUS-IP). By the end of the rotation you will be a certified CEUS-IP. The EDE 1 course provided in your 1st year allows you to be proficient in using bedside ultrasound to rule out pericardial effusions, intra-abdominal fluid, aortic aneurysm, and rule in intrauterine pregnancy.

But it does not stop there. McGill is now one of the sites of the EDE 2
course. The possibilities for those who want to expand the use of ultrasound
in their practice are limitless. Our physicians routinely use bedside
ultrasound to assess cardiac function, volume status, diagnose pneumothorax,
pulmonary edema, DVT’s, retinal detachments, as well as perform several
ultrasound guided procedures such as peripheral lines, joint taps, nerve
blocks, thoracentesis, and Colles reductions. There is also a new U/S elective
month for advanced U/S techniques.

At McGill, you will work directly with staff experienced with ultrasound and
its cutting edge applications.



  3. **Excellent EBM and Research Training** :  McGill fosters an environment of academic distinction and encourages residents to push the limits of clinical knowledge in research and evidence based medicine progressively throughout the 5 years of residency:

Junior residents are offered a clinical epidemiology course and a combined
ED/Journal Club month where they learn to critically appraise a peer-reviewed
journal article and submit it for publication. This is in addition to the
monthly Journal Club that is held in conjunction with the CCFP-EM residents
and focuses on cutting edge articles and core EBM topics.

All residents will participate in a research project and are guided by
research preceptors and the Emergency Medicine Residency Research Committee
(EMRRC). Five months are allocated throughout the program to work on protocol
development, ethics and grant applications, data analysis, and finally
manuscript completion with the goal of presenting an abstract or poster at a
major conference and submitting for publication to a peer reviewed journal.

Residents are strongly encouraged and remunerated to attend the major
conferences (SAEM, CAEP, ACEP, AMUQ etc.) and special additional funding and
support is provided for residents who present their research.



  4. **Top-notch Academic Half Days** : The quality of our rounds continues to excel as we are able to attract many nationally and internationally renowned speakers. This coupled with the fact that our teaching time is protected no matter what service you are on, ensures that your knowledge base will expand every week.

We have monthly interactive sessions where we meet with staff to discuss pre-
assigned chapters from Tintinalli (junior residents) and Rosen's (senior
residents). By the end of your third year you will have read both texts from
cover to cover.



  5. **Education Programs/Clinical Teaching Unit (CTU)** :  CTU is an innovative clinical rotation for senior residents to develop their skill and confidence as a clinical teacher. The resident-teacher will apply principles of learner-centered instruction and techniques for teaching in a busy clinical environment while supervising junior trainees. Through group learning activities, practical experience, and self reflection, the resident-teacher will acquire skills in interactive small group lecturing, focused instruction during case reviews, effective bedside teaching, the teaching of procedures, and giving constructive feedback.

Residents interested in health education also have the opportunity to advance
their knowledge and skill set through various programs offered in conjunction
with the faculties of Medicine and Education (Teachers Scholars Program,
McGill Postgraduate fellowship in health Sciences Education, and a Masters of
Arts in Education).

** **

  6. **Trauma rotations abroad:  **There is an opportunity to experience trauma in other countries. Get to experience high volume, high intensity trauma training in cities where penetrating injury is a daily reality. Our residents go to Groote Schuur in Cape Town, South Africa.  And in the past  some residents have gone to Japan, France and India amongst some of the choices.

** **

  7. **Toxicology rotations in New York:** Toxicology is one of the challenging fields in emergency medicine, and a field that truly belongs to emergentologists. And once again our program prepares you well. As a junior, you will develop a comprehensive knowledge base of Toxicology with our own dedicated rotation with Quebec toxicologists. Then, as a senior resident, you will travel to the Poison Control Center at Bellevue Hospital in New York City, one of the best in the world, at which point you will feel comfortable managing the most complex toxicology cases.

** **

  8. **Flexible program structure/Area of Interest** :  All the residents agree that one of the greatest strengths of McGill Emergency Medicine is that it is centered on residents and driven by resident needs. The administration has an open door policy eliciting residents’ opinions and the structure of the program is constantly evolving and being tailored to fit all educational requirements. In response to resident and faculty feedback, numerous rotations have been modified to become more emergency-oriented.  An example of a new recent initiative was the addition of a longitudinal Mass Gathering elective; the resident will be exposed to hands-on training in mass gathering events of various kinds (Grand Prix, IronMan, etc). 

In your PGY5 year, during your Transition to Practice (TTP), you have the
ability to develop a niche in Emergency Medicine through your Area of
Concentrated Expertise (ACE). Six months are allocated for you to pursue an
area of interest of your choice. ACE and fellowships for previous residents
have included international health, pediatrics, wilderness medicine, aviation
medicine, critical care, trauma, disaster management, EMS, toxicology, sports
medicine, ultrasound, simulation medicine and education.

** **

  9. **Brand new hospitals:  **There are three new emergency departments that opened in 2015: the Montreal Children's Hospital and Royal Victoria Hospital (under the same roof) and the newly built Pavilion K, housing a new ED at the Jewish General Hospital.   This will provide you with the opportunity to manage complex patients in state-of-the-art facilities. 



  10. **Excellent Staff-Resident Relationship** : One of our greatest strengths, which residents all cherish, is the very relaxed and collegial relationship with the staff. You will quickly become one of the family. This will allow you to relax and focus on maximizing your learning experience, it also makes going to work so much fun. Throughout the year several social activities are organized; these include quarterly extra journal clubs at a staff's home, a famous end-of-year beach party, and an annual two-day retreat in the Laurentians with the goals of i) performing an overall program review and ii) for team building and resident wellbeing.



  11. **Montreal! Montreal! Montreal!   **Montreal is a truly an amazing city.  Residency is tough and demanding; one key to success is living in a city where there is ample opportunity to unwind.  There is no other city in the world with the cultural flavour that Montreal has. Whether you are interested in art, music, theatre, history, science, sports, outdoor activities, festivals, or nightlife, Montreal has something to offer you.  You will love to live in this amazing city for 5 years!

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Our focus is on the specialty of emergency medicine. We have now changed our
curriculum to the new Competency-Based  model. There are 21 months dedicated
to adult emergency medicine, 6.5 months to pediatric emergency, and 3 special
emergency months: ED/Journal Club (year 1), ED/ultrasound (year 1),  and
psychiatric ED (year 2).

There are also a total of 7 months of critical care: 5 months of ICU/CCU and 2
months of trauma (1 month at the Montreal General Hospital and 1 months
abroad.)

There is a 1-month toxicology rotation at the New York Poison control centre
at Bellevue Hospital Center.

Other unique rotations include: Internal medicine consults, cardiology
consults, pediatric anesthesia, clinical epidemiology, clinical teaching unit
(where you learn how to teach), and MSK/sports medicine, a dedicated
ED/ultrasound month.

_During the 5th  year, residents choose an "area of concentrated expertise"
where they have 6 months to subspecialize and/or develop their niche within
the specialty._

**Research**  
  

A strong emphasis is placed on research where 5 months are allocated
throughout the program for the resident to work on protocol development,
ethics and grant applications, data analysis, and finally manuscript
completion. The end goal is to be able to present an abstract or poster at a
major conference (e.g. CAEP, SAEM, AMUQ) and to submit for publication to a
peer reviewed journal. Residents are guided by research preceptors and the
Emergency Medicine Residency Research Committee (EMRRC).

To facilitate this process, there is significant emphasis on teaching
residents how to critically evaluate scientific literature and understanding
the principles in developing a research project. The PGY-1 resident will
complete an epidemiology/biostats course at McGill University. Journal club
helps facilitate the learning of both critical appraisal and the techniques of
EBM.

**Seminars and Rounds**  
  

Rounds occur every Wednesday morning from 8:30 to noon. This is protected time
for all residents. There are guest speakers, staff presenters, "theme" days,
M&M rounds, and all residents are expected to present a cutting edge grand
rounds topic during the year. The junior residents participate in an annual
CPC competition to present interesting cases. In addition, many sessions will
be held at the McGill Simulation Centre.

The 3rd Wednesday of each period there is a staff-guided interactive study
session in the afternoon after rounds. There are "Junior" Interactive Sessions
during the first year which are based on Tintinalli's "Study Guide". In the
next two years, "Senior" Interactive Sessions will be based on Rosen's
Emergency Medicine textbook and articles from the literature. During their
fourth year, they will concentrate their knowledge on reviewing Tintinalli’s/
Rosen’s for their FRCP exam.

A new initiative started in the last two years is Resus-Hour: divided between
junior and senior residents, the groups run through cutting-edge simulations
guided by staff.

Journal Club is held monthly during our Academic half days.

Senior residents have oral exam preparation sessions for the last 6 months of
their PGY4, organized by the Attending Staff. As well, given the number of
residents graduating, study groups are formed by the residents every year.

**Medical Administration**  
  

This rotation is held either in the R3 or R4 year.  Regular seminars are held.
Residents also work in the ED focusing on the management of flow and patient
throughput. Residents are also expected to join one of several departmental
committees that convene regularly throughout the year. Finally, the aspect of
M+M is introduced as residents are given specific cases to investigate and
present at rounds.  Time for these activities is compensated by decreasing the
number of shifts on ED rotations.

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

R1 - R5

McGill University health Centre:

Royal Victoria Hospital, new state of the art tertiary care center managing
complex cases including transplant, oncology and cardiac cases.

Montreal General Hospital, a level 1 trauma center with dedicated trauma team
and Trauma Team Leaders, many of whom are ED staff.

Montreal Neurological Institute, the Neuro, a world-leading destination for
brain research and advanced patient care.

Montreal Children's Hospital, a tertiary care pediatric center with a large
volume of patients

Sir Mortimer B. Davis -Jewish General Hospital, a brand new Pavillion K
housing a beautiful new ED with a very multicultural patient population.

* * *

# Additional Information

If you have any questions about the program, I invite you to browse our
website at www.mcgill.ca/emergency



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26790?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26790