#  University of Alberta - Plastic Surgery - Edmonton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Jay Zhu  

Address Surgery  
2D2.02 Walter Mackenzie Health Sciences Centre  
University of Alberta 8440-112 Street  
Edmonton, Alberta, T6G 2B7  

Work

Fax

Websites of Interest [ University of Alberta - Department of Surgery
](https://www.ualberta.ca/en/surgery/index.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Jay Zhu

Title: Program Director

  

Name: Asha Belisle

Title: Program Administrator

Email: psurgpg@ualberta.ca

  

Name: Dr. Curtis Budden

Title: Assistant Program Director

  

* * *

# Return of Service

There are no return of service requirements at the University of Alberta.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

In 2020, we did a podcast with Doctority to discuss our program. We recommend
listening to it when you have time because it helps to understand our program.

You can find the podcast here: <https://doctority.co/podcast> and select
"Canada." Our program was highlighted in Episode 4.



CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)

The University of Alberta recognizes the importance of diversity, equity,
inclusivity, decolonization, and indigenization (EDIDI) and is committed to
the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry’s policy on anti-racism.

Further, the University is committed to implementing the Truth and
Reconciliation Commission calls to action that are relevant to education and
medicine.The pursuit of diversity and equitable opportunities is a core value
that guides our selection practices.

The University encourages applications from underrepresented groups, including
Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women,
persons of a minority gender identity or sexual orientation, and individuals
who would contribute to the diversity of the medical community. The CaRMS
Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) is an optional form that candidates
can fill out.

Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism in residency
selection, but is currently not using the CSIQ as part of our application
process. We are using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable
opportunities for all applicants.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Please see the Alberta [provincial
criteria.](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/)

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) are required to provide proof of
English language proficiency as determined by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) who completed their medical education in
Quebec or at the University of Ottawa (French Stream) are required to provide
proof of English language proficiency as determined by the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

CMGs who completed their medical education at the University of Ottawa must
indicate on their application which stream they completed (either French or
English).

_For more information on the CPSA English language requirements, please visit
the  [CPSA website](https://cpsa.ca/physicians/registration/english-language-
proficiency/)._

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three (3) reference letters are required. If more than three (3) reference
letters are submitted, only the first three (3) will be reviewed.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

Please provide abstracts only. Full publications will not be reviewed.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 27, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held virtually on
Monday, January 27, 2025. Details will be circulated closer to the interview
date.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Short listed candidates will be
required to attend an interview. Interviews will be held via Zoom.  
  
Each candidate will attend four 20-minute interviews with 3 to 4 interviewers
per room. The interviewers comprise of attendings, nurses, and residents.
Interviews cover a broad range of topics, including past work and life
experiences, interests, and clinical scenarios.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Selection criteria is as follows:

  * Academic and clinical performance on medical school rotations
  * Letters of recommendation
  * Interview performance
  * Curriculum vitae, including research experience (which can be in any medical field)

## Program goals

The primary objective of the Plastic Surgery Residency Program at the
University of Alberta is to train surgeons who possess the decision-making
skills, clinical knowledge, surgical skills, and moral character to
successfully take care of patients. They are clinically sound, technically
skilled, and have a drive towards lifelong learning. Upon completion, our
residents can handle any common plastic surgical problem with confidence.

## Selection process goals

The Plastic Surgery Residency Program at the University of Alberta will take
into account a wide variety of criteria when selecting applicants. The
successful applicant will demonstrate a strong work ethic, commitment to
plastic surgery, and have a good academic record. Our residents are hard-
working, compassionate, and skilled. The successful applicant will add to the
collegiate nature of the resident team.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is composed of the program director,
the assistant program director, and select attendings and residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Previous work and life experience   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Our program does not favor residents who do electives at our site or numerous electives in our specialty. We consider and value applicants with broad clinical experiences.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We will review for pertinent information.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We will review for pertinent information.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Has demonstrated the ability to act in a leadership role.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  We will review for pertinent information.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  We wish to understand why the applicant is choosing plastic surgery, as well as any other pertinent information.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  We will review for pertinent information.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We wish to see that the candidate has previous research experience in medicine. The studies do not have to be related to plastic surgery.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We will review for pertinent information.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Our program does not favor residents who do electives
at our site or numerous electives in our specialty. We consider and value
applicants with broad clinical experiences.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We may ask about the candidate's previous life and work experiences that demonstrate collaboration, team work, communication, and leadership.   
Collegiality |  We may ask about the candidate's previous life and work experiences that demonstrate collaboration, team work, communication, and leadership.   
Communication skills |  It is crucial to provide clear and concise answers.   
Health advocacy |  We appreciate any candidates who participate in health advocacy and may ask the candidate to describe his/her experience.   
Interest in the discipline |  We may ask about how the candidate became interested in plastic surgery.   
Interest in the program |  We appreciate a candidate who understands our program, to the extent possible without completing an elective with us.   
Leadership skills |  We may ask about the candidate's previous life and work experiences that demonstrate collaboration, team work, communication, and leadership.   
Professionalism |  We may ask about the candidate's previous life and work experiences that demonstrate collaboration, team work, communication, and leadership.   
Scholarly activities |  We may ask about scholarly endeavors, including research experience.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * We provide an unmatched amount of surgical exposure, starting in PGY-1.
  * We have a high faculty to resident ratio (approximately 2:1).
  * Almost all major areas of plastic surgery are covered in our program by fellowship trained surgeons.
  * We have a diligent and effective Residency Program Committee that constantly improves the program based on resident feedback.
  * We have an amazing group of residents who enjoy working with each other.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Plastic Surgery Residency Program at the University of Alberta is five
years in length. The program consists of one year of Surgical Foundations
training followed by four years of Plastic Surgery residency. In the first two
years, half the blocks are spent on plastic surgery with the rest spent off
service.

Our program exposes our residents to a very high volume and variety of plastic
surgery patients. We see a high volume of hand, wrist, and peripheral nerve
patients. We have a dedicated burn unit and excel in providing burn care.
We're proud and grateful to have residents from other Canadian plastic surgery
programs visit our center to learn burn surgery. We provide exceptional
opportunities to learn craniofacial surgeries as well, especially relating to
trauma and skin cancers. Our volume of craniofacial trauma is second to none.

Our residents learn microsurgery in a "rat" lab, starting in PGY-3. The lab
provides hands-on learning for 8 half days a year for three years. Our
residents are very comfortable performing microsurgery as a result. We have a
high volume of clinical microsurgery, with specialists in breast and lower
limb reconstruction.

We have three pediatric plastic surgeons who specialize in cleft surgery,
congenital hand anomalies, craniofacial vault defects, facial reanimation,
vascular malformations, and Nagata ear reconstruction.

There is a well-established educational program consisting of seminars, case
rounds, "dogma rounds," and journal clubs. Residents gain examination
experience with the help of bi-annual oral examinations and frequent written
short answer quizzes. There are four anatomy dissection labs per year (two
upper extremity and two lower extremity) with cadaveric specimens.

Our program is constantly evolving to improve the educational experience for
our residents. The RPC has been effective in taking feedback from residents
and implementing changes to the program to improve learning.

**PGY-1**  
  

The PGY 1 year, which is part of the Surgical Foundations program, is made up
of 13 28-day blocks. Each surgical specialty at the University of Alberta
participates in this program. In Plastic Surgery, the PGY-1 rotations consist
of six to seven blocks of plastic surgery, one block of general surgery, one
block of pediatric general surgery, one block of emergency medicine, one block
of internal medicine, one block of orthopedic surgery, and one block of
vacation. The PGY-1 year is coordinated by the Director of the Surgical
Foundations Program and co-directed by the Residency Program Director in
Plastic Surgery.

**PGY-2**  
  

The PGY-2 year consists of two blocks of ICU, one block of Otolaryngology, six
to seven blocks of plastic surgery, one block of dermatology (mainly Mohs
micrographic surgery), one block of oral surgery, and one selective rotation
of the residents' choice.







**PGY-3 and PGY-4**  
  

The PGY-3 and 4 rotations are preceptor based. Rotations at the University of
Alberta Hospital include burn surgery, pediatric plastic surgery, craniofacial
surgery, microsurgery, and breast reconstruction.

Rotations at the Royal Alexandra Hospital include hand and wrist surgery,
breast surgery, and craniofacial surgery. There are two blocks of cosmetic
surgery.

There is additional time for two 28-day blocks of electives. During this
elective time, residents visit national and international sites to learn and
to prepare for fellowship applications.

  
  

**PGY- 5**  
  

PGY-5 is considered the Lead Resident year and is a crucial step in
transforming a resident into a competent staff physician. The Lead Resident
will have rotations at both the Royal Alexandra Hospital and University of
Alberta Hospital. These rotations are not preceptor based. Residents are given
increasing amounts of responsibility with clinical and surgical management of
patients.

We are confident that, upon graduation from our program, our residents will be
highly skilled in all areas of plastic surgery.



**Research**  
  

Research is a strength of our program. Residents will be expected to present a
poster or oral presentation at three meetings during their tenure as a
resident. Residents will be expected to submit one paper to a peer-reviewed
journal during their residency.



* * *

# Training Sites

\- University of Alberta Hospitals

\- Royal Alexandra Hospital

\- Misericordia Hospital

\- Grey Nuns Community Hospital

\- Meadowlark Cosmetic Suite







* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26511?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26511