#  McMaster University - Internal Medicine - Waterloo  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Leslie Martin  

Address 10 B Victoria Street South  
Kitchener , Ontario, N2G 1C5  

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Region of Waterloo
](http://www.regionofwaterloo.ca/en/index.asp)  
[ CBME McMaster ](https://cbmepg.mcmaster.ca/)  
[ McMaster CaRMS R1 Match program information
](https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/)  
[ McMaster's Hamilton IM program website
](https://healthsci.mcmaster.ca/medicine/education/residency-
programs/internal-medicine-residency)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Leslie Martin

Title: Program Director

  

Name: Dr. Rebecca Kruisselbrink

Title: Regional Education Lead

  

General Information: Program Contact

Name: Kerri Alves

Title: Program Administrator

Email: alvesk@mcmaster.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information,
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/).  It is important to review all the
requirements carefully.

To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit:
[https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/](https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/)

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Applicants should carefully follow all CaRMS application guidelines and
deadlines.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three (3) reference letters are required and must be from a clinical
supervisor who can adequately comment on your clinical performance and
interpersonal skills. Our Program does not accept reference letters from
residents. A file will be considered incomplete without the required 3
references. Additional references beyond 3 will be discarded.  References from
our institution are not rated higher than references from your home
institution.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  700

  

Up to a maximum of 700 words in response to the following **prompt:  **

**There are many qualities that make an outstanding physician. Indicate one
quality you believe will provide a solid foundation for success for a resident
trainee in Internal Medicine.**

**Why you have applied to the WRC internal medicine training program?   Tell
us about yourself, your career ambitions, what you are expecting from the
program, and what you will bring to the residency program. Help us get to know
you. **



Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed.

Optional - will be reviewed

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Photo is used as a memory aid only and not required.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All applications are reviewed by a faculty committee and the Program Director.
Applicants selected for interview will be notified by email on **January 10,
2025**. Those not selected for interview will also be notified on **January
10,  2025**. All applications are considered equally, based on the applicant's
file. Unfortunately, we are not able to respond to requests to reopen files
after interview offers have gone out.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Tuesday January 21, 2025 and Wednesday
January 22, 2025 will be the only dates available for interviews at Waterloo
Regional Campus.  Interview day will begin at 0900 and wrap up approximately
around 1300**.   **Those invited for an interview will be notified by email on
Jan 10, along with instructions on how to use the online scheduling program to
select one of the two available dates on a first come, first served basis.
**_Please note that when selecting an interview date and time, that the time
of your interview may change based on the interviewers schedule for the day
and the availability of the interviewers, please ensure you are available on
whichever date you choose from 0900-1300_. **  
  
******* An alternate day will be assigned for those who cannot attend due to
religious reasons only.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Details regarding the interview
process:  
  

  * All interviews will be conducted virtually.
  * The day will include opportunities to meet virtually with WRC residents, speak with the Regional Education Lead, Dr. Kruisselbrink, as well as Dr. Martin, the Program Director, and your interview with a faculty member and current residents in the program.
  * At the beginning of the day, Dr. Kruisselbrink, the Regional Education Lead, will give an overview of the program, followed by a question and answer period.
  * The interview itself will consist of approximately 20-25 minutes with a faculty member and current resident of the Department who will have access to your application package. 
  * Current WRC residents will be available to answer questions and guide you through your day. There will also be a WRC Resident's 'Ask me anything' forum running concurrently with the interviews for those candidates that are interested. You may attend the session any time before of after your interview. ** **Note that this event is not considered mandatory.**
  * You will have additional opportunities for an individual, scheduled "meet and greet" with both Dr. Martin (program director) and Dr. Kruisselbrink (regional education lead) in conjunction with interviews, and information will be sent separately to allow individual sign up.   

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We are seeking applicants who have demonstrated intelligence, dedication,
efficiency, and above all, commitment to patient care.  Our application
process for the Waterloo Regional Campus of McMaster's Internal Medicine
Residency process is designed to be fair and transparent.   During the file
review process as well as interview selection process, multiple faculty
members are involved, and any conflicts of interest are identified and
managed. After interview completion, our rank order list is compiled based on
application, interview performance, and professional attributes.  This list is
reviewed by both the Regional Education Lead and Program Director prior to
submission, and double checked for accuracy.  



## Program goals

The McMaster Internal Medicine Residency Program is a structured, safe
environment that fosters open communication and collaboration between
residents and other residency program stakeholders. We seek to build and
maintain a residency program that meets and aspires to exceed the General and
Specialty Specific Standards of Accreditation for Internal Medicine as per the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. This program features two
campuses: Hamilton, and Waterloo.  

McMaster's Waterloo Regional Campus is a community-based Internal Medicine
residency training program.  Our goal is to combine excellent internal
medicine clinical training in a community environment with the academic and
research support of our Hamilton campus to effectively prepare residents for
possible community practice as a generalist or a subspecialist.  We seek to
prepare our residents to effectively deal with the full range of medical
patients with chronic multi-system disease to the critically ill.  

## Selection process goals

Our program invites motivated, self-directed residents who are enthusiastic
for a career in Internal Medicine to apply to McMaster's Waterloo Regional
Campus program  

The program seeks applicants who are dedicated to delivering high quality
care, and who have demonstrated high aptitude in clinical medicine and the
application of best practices.  In addition, we are interested in candidates
who are keen to learn the skills of evidence-based medicine so they ultimately
practice medicine in accordance with its tenets. Additional roles in
curriculum development, other leadership roles in undergraduate MD programs
and research productivity are reviewed.  

An ideal candidate is one who is interested in developing competency as a
Medical Expert in Internal Medicine while building skills in leadership, team
collaboration and lifelong learning.  A candidate with high professional
standards who is respectful of others, including their peers, will thrive in
this supportive learning environment.  Finally, we look for candidates with
particular interest in exploring the unique opportunities afforded by
community-based internal medicine training.

## File review process

Review team composition : Active faculty members from the Waterloo Regional
Campus are assigned files for review. The Regional Education Lead conducts a
secondary review of each file, followed by a final review with the Program
Director.  

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 201 - 400  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  
On average, 65 interview spots are offered over the 2 interview days

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Education, Electives, Research, Leadership, Awards, Teaching, Advocacy - aim for less than 4-5 pages   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Candidates must demonstrate that they have clinical experience to ensure they are making an informed decision about entering Internal Medicine.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Demonstration of leadership, advocacy, administration, teaching, life skills are most relevant   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Undergrad program activities, committee work, employment, team leadership in extra-curriculars, etc   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Skill and attitude in the clinical environment and interest and aptitude for Internal Medicine   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Succinct, relevant to Internal Medicine, authentic, addresses the assigned prompt(s)   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  3 references. Choose faculty supervisors who know student well in clinical setting. References from our institution are not rated higher than references from your home institution.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research activities, publications, poster/oral presentations, book chapters   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Assessed for academic achievement   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We recognize that access to electives is limited and
would like to reassure you that a lack of McMaster-based electives will not
negatively impact your application to our program. Electives or home-based
rotations in Medicine or its subspecialties are recommended to allow
candidates a perspective on training and careers in the field.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Conveys a team centered approach based on attitude and applicant's description of past experiences   
Collegiality |  Polite, respectful of others in interactions at interview and leading up to interview   
Communication skills |  Clear style of communication, both verbal and non-verbal. Connects well with interview team   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrates attitude of health promotion for patients and/or community   
Interest in the discipline |  Able to briefly describe and support their interest, if questioned   
Interest in the program |  Should be able to demonstrate effort was invested to seek program highlights pre-interview   
Leadership skills |  Demonstration of leadership qualities through discussing past experiences and goals for future   
Professionalism |  Considerate of other applicants, respects and contributes to living, learning and working environments that are free from harassment and discrimination and promotes diversity   
Scholarly activities |  Demonstrates interest in building scholarship in education and/or research during training   
Other interview component(s) |  Candidates are encouraged to be themselves while conversing with the interviewers. Standardized questions guide the interview. Time permitting, the candidate will have an opportunity to ask a question towards the end of the interview. Medical knowledge is not tested during the interview process.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Small, close-knit program:**  With just 4 residents per year, our faculty to
learner ratio and hands on opportunities for patient care and procedural
skills are highly conducive to development of strong mentorships and clinical
confidence.

**Resident-centered:**  We are committed to involving residents in all major
decisions affecting the nature of the program.  We seek and act upon resident
feedback and involve them alongside faculty and program leadership in planning
and enacting the educational growth and development of our campus.

**Strong relationship with McMaster University’s Hamilton Campus:** Waterloo
Regional Campus residents have access to and participate in each and every
feature of the Hamilton campus, including numerous academic retreats and
social events, and access to mentorship from world class research and academic
faculty.  WRC residents also participate in McMaster’s formal academic
curriculum through a combination of virtual lectures, video conference, and
locally hosted sessions.  Waterloo representation at a faculty and resident
level is present on all major committees and in all major decisions at a
program level.

**International Health Elective:**   McMaster’s Internal Medicine Program,
including Waterloo Regional Campus trainees, offers three PGY2 residents
annually the opportunity to participate in a fully funded competitive one-
month elective in Uganda. There is a reciprocal Program for clinical fellows
from Uganda to participate in clinical rotations in Hamilton. Restrictions due
to the COVID-19 pandemic have restricted availability, but we anticipate a
return of this elective in the future.

**Clinical placements at a variety of hospital and clinic sites:**  Our
residents have access to clinical training at a host of hospital sites,
including four teaching hospitals in Hamilton, and multiple community hospital
sites across the Waterloo-Wellington Region.  Because of the regional nature
of many of our clinical programs, residents are exposed to a wide variety of
pathology from peripheral communities and a multitude of procedural
opportunities. Consistently integrated ambulatory care experiences are also a
key feature the Community Based Program.

**External Electives:**  There are three external electives during the core
years which can be taken anywhere in Canada. Elective rotations are approved
by the Program Director. All three external electives occur before the start
of Block 4 in the PGY3 year and in advance of the PGY4 CaRMS match. If
COVID-19 imposes travel restrictions, accommodations are made for home
electives to occur at McMaster main campus, where medicine subspeciality
training programs are available within each discipline.  

**Mentorship and Academic Coaching:**  The program has a formal mentorship
opportunity for all residents. Residents also have the option to invite a
faculty mentor of their choice to serve as their mentor.  In the case of
Waterloo Regional Campus residents, mentors often include both faculty at both
the main campus and distributed site.  Each of our residents is also assigned
to a Waterloo-based Academic Coach, per the standards for Competency-Based
Medical Education.  The Academic Coach oversees the resident's clinical and
academic progress. Additionally, the resident wellness committee at the main
campus, with Waterloo resident representation, facilitates a peer mentorship
program for interested residents.

**Longitudinal Chief Resident:  **Opportunity to develop skills, leadership
and educational skills as Longitudinal Chief Resident specifically rooted in a
community based campus.

**Royal College Examination Preparation:**  The program is intentional in
creating curriculum, and structuring experiences to prepare residents for the
Royal College Examination.  There is a proportional reduction in call duties
for PGY3's; study group time is built into the weekly PGY3 Academic Half Day
(AHD); case-based curriculum for PGY2-3 Half Day mapped to RC competencies of
training, a 14-week exam prep lecture series delivered by recently
credentialed FRCPC subspecialty residents; program-paid subscription to NEJM
Knowledge Plus - an extensive online question bank with adaptive learning for
each resident; front-loading of the heaviest clinical blocks in the first two
years of training; research curriculum and project timelines to reduce demands
during the home stretch.  Written practice exams occur annually.  The program
organizes annual practice OSCEs for all core trainees.

Waterloo-based campus residents participate in every preparation steps for the
Royal College Examination through the Hamilton campus.  Additionally,
consistent examination preparation is conducted at the Waterloo campus with
local faculty throughout PGY2 and PGY3.

**Competency-Based Medical Education (CBME):**    As of July 2021, all three
years of core trainees will be in the CBME stream. Resident champions
representing each PG year sit on a CBME Resident Development Committee  to
partner with faculty educators to develop the best standards for assessment
and learning.

**Resident Wellness:**   The Resident Wellness Committee is one of our most
active groups, and has the full support of our program in light of the growing
national concerns regarding resident and physician health. This issue is seen
as a priority.  

**Research:** World class researchers in the Department of Medicine at
McMaster are available as teachers for an Evidence Based Medicine (EBM) and
Research Curriculum, and as mentors for research projects. There is a growing
community of researchers in the field of QI and Patient Safety. Please find a
full description of our EBM and Research Curriculum in the Program Curriculum
section below.

**Simulation:** The program includes a longitudinal simulation curriculum to
help trainees practice acute resuscitation and procedural skills in a safe,
supervised setting. The simulation sessions make use of high-fidelity
mannequins and task trainers to create an authentic learning environment and
allow faculty to provide accurate real-time instruction and feedback.

**Point of Care Ultrasound Curriculum:** The Internal Medicine program at
McMaster offers a point of care ultrasound (PoCUS) curriculum. During two
academic half day sessions, you will be introduced to the theory of PoCUS, and
will learn how to properly acquire cardiac and lung ultrasound images in a
small group setting. Once you have mastered image acquisition on healthy
standardized patients, you will move into the hospital and perform the
supervised scans on real patients with real pathology to hone your image
interpretation skills. These sessions are led by skilled instructors at both
the Waterloo and Hamilton campuses in small groups to permit adequate hands on
learning time.

**Social Medicine:** This two- or four-week selective rotation was conceived
of and built by the resident-led Internal Medicine Social Medicine Committee.
The Social Medicine Rotation seeks to enhance residents’ knowledge of social
factors affecting the health of our Hamilton community and skills in caring
for our marginalized populations. The rotation is comprised of a combination
of core and elective experiences, which include (but are not limited to):
inpatient and outpatient care of individuals with substance use disorders,
shelter health clinic, hemoglobinopathy clinic (with a focus on anti-racism),
transitional beds program (for high-risk patients after hospitalization),
tuberculosis clinic, refugee health clinic, pre-exposure prophylaxis clinic
and harm reduction outreach services. Residents are paired with a faculty
supervisor who provides an individualized orientation and regular debrief.
While located primarily in Hamilton, this selective is available as an option
to any Waterloo-based trainee who wishes to participate.  Steps to add
Waterloo based clinics to this selective are also being undertaken.

**Equity, Diversity and Inclusion:** The program has a Resident Education
Subcommittee for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion co-chaired by a resident and
a faculty supervisor. The purpose of this committee is to improve and
incorporate EDI curriculum and principles into our Internal Medicine training.
The committee’s initiatives and events include:

  * Developing EDI learning activities for trainees within the Internal Medicine department and determining ways in which colleagues can improve EDI skills
  * Reviewing ways in which the Internal Medicine program contributes to the McMaster and local EDI communities
  * Reviewing or recommending ways in which diversity can be enhanced within the Internal Medicine program, including, and not limited to the CaRMS admission process

  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The core residency program is three years in length. The program is geared to
prepare residents for advancement to subspecialty training. McMaster residents
who do not match to a subspecialty program will complete their 4th year of
training through the core program at McMaster. The program length of training
does not exceed the Royal College or College of Family Physicians of Canada
standard.

The McMaster Waterloo site houses a robust community based Internal Medicine
residency training program.  Our goal is to combine excellent internal
medicine clinical training in a community environment with the academic and
research support of our Hamilton campus to effectively prepare residents for
either community or tertiary-site practice as a generalist or a subspecialist.
We seek to prepare our residents to effectively deal with the full range of
medical patients with chronic multi system disease to the critically ill.
Aside from a robust clinical experience, the program offers a well-developed
academic curriculum built on CanMEDS core competencies which allows residents
to obtain the skills necessary for independent practice and a successful
career.

The program is organized into 13 block rotations per year, each of 4 weeks’
duration. Clinical rotations occur at the 3 main hospitals in Hamilton (St.
Joseph’s Healthcare, Hamilton General Hospital, and Juravinski Hospital), as
well as the two main teaching hospitals in the Waterloo Wellington Region,
Grand River Hospital and St. Mary’s General Hospital. Within the KW area,
additional optional placements may occur at Guelph General Hospital in Guelph
and Cambridge Memorial Hospital in Cambridge. (both within a thirty-minute
drive)

Clinical exposure is broad. Grand River Hospital is home to several regional
programs including the Grand River Regional Cancer Centre, Hepatobiliary
Surgical Program, Regional Stroke and Renal disease programs, and a large
Mental Health Program. It also hosts an acute, busy General Internal Medicine
Rapid Access Clinic, a geographic Clinical Teaching Unit and two large
critical care units (both Level II and Level III).  St. Mary's General
Hospital is a Regional Cardiac Care Centre and a Centre of Excellence for
Respiratory and Thoracic Care. Both sites are equipped with videoconferencing
capabilities and both sites are busy with 65,000-75,000 ER visits per year.
Furthermore, the two hospitals receive constant referrals from outside
hospitals, and trainees are exposed to a huge variety of pathologies from
peripheral communities.  Finally, these two hospitals are conveniently located
fewer than four kilometers apart.

Other unique features include:

  * **Early Responsibility:  **Early development of clinical and technical skills is a focus of training at both the Hamilton and Waterloo campuses.  This is facilitated at both sites by PGY1 rotations in the critical care units where residents work directly with the ICU attending physicians.  This critical care experience helps ensure a smooth transition to a more senior role.  Residents become directly responsible for emergency room admissions in second year, where they assume the role of senior medicine resident.  
  * **Ambulatory Care:**  We are committed to providing a robust ambulatory care experience for residents throughout their internal medicine training.  This includes not only the two ambulatory care blocks in PGY1, but outpatient experience in each subspecialty rotation they encounter during their selectives.  Community subspecialists almost invariably have a mixed inpatient and outpatient practice setting and our residents experience this during each block.  Residents in either PGY2 or PGY3 have the opportunity for two additional blocks in ambulatory care, focusing in either the subspecialties of their choice or areas selected to round out their clinical experience.   
  * **Flexibility:**  Aside from the Royal College mandated clinical rotations (GIM, ICU, Cardiology, Community), Nephrology is the only other program-mandated subspecialty rotation.  Every attempt is made to allow residents to choose subspecialty selectives in their preferred year of training, and the Regional Education Lead meets with each resident multiple times per year to assist with rotation planning, ensure residents are meeting Royal College requirements, and setting themselves up for success in the PGY4 CaRMS match.  Each resident’s schedule is uniquely tailored to their personal career goals. There is one available block dedicated to a "Directed Selective", usually scheduled in the 3rd year and designed via mutual agreement between the resident and the Regional Education Lead/Program Director.  This customized selective serves the purpose of addressing an individual resident's career goals more specifically or filling in any necessary training gaps.  

**Competency Based Medical Education (CBME)/Competence by Design (CBD)**

CBD is the Royal College's unique version of CBME. Training components for all
new PGY1 resident entries on or after July 1, 2019 adheres to CBD standards.
The program is equipped to support residents as they progress through the
stages of training. All program documents, policies and procedures have
recently been updated with a CBD lens. Infrastructure has been put in place to
accommodate the process including:

  * Ongoing faculty and resident education/development in CBD onsite at the Waterloo campus - workshops, videos, role playing 
  * CBME champions amongst residents and faculty 
  * Academic Coach assigned to each resident specific to the Waterloo campus 

  * Orientation manuals and resident road maps to guide residents in meeting stage specific EPA's and other training, updated as of spring of 2019 
  * Electronic platform (MedSIS) with mobile access for documentation of workplace based assessments, also useful for tracking EPA progress, personal resident e-portfolio, and access to In-training Evaluation Reports (ITERS) 
  * Dedicated Chair of Medicine and GIM Division Director who are highly engaged and supportive of CBD at both the Hamilton and Waterloo campuses 

**On-Call duties**

All residents in the Internal Medicine Residency Program are required to take
call duty in accordance with PARO/OCATH regulations. In the community, the
type of call and call frequency will be specific to rotations as per
PARO/OCATH regulations.

First year residents take junior call duty on the CTU's is maximum 1:4 to as
low as 1:6.  Junior residents participate in rotation specific call on some
rotations, including ICU and CCU.  For rotations without dedicated in house
call, residents take fly in call on the CTU.  For rotations in disciplines
outside of Medicine e.g. surgery, emergency medicine, residents take call in
that discipline if it exists; if not, they take call in Medicine.

For PGY2 and PGY3 residents, subspecialty-specific call exists in nephrology,
ICU, CCU and Respirology. Residents without subspecialty call meet their call
requirements through a mix of fly in medicine call as a senior in the
community and one 2-week block of night float each of PGY2 and PGY3 in
Hamilton.  Every effort to accommodate off call requests is made to ensure
that residents obtain maximal benefit from the call experience as well as each
specialist rotation.

The Hamilton-specific night float model includes 7 shifts over 14 days during
which residents work 5 pm to 9:30 AM.  Second year residents are paired with
another senior resident colleague for this experience.

**Research/Teaching Opportunities**  
  

**Research:**

We encourage residents to take advantage of the superb research opportunities
at McMaster. As required by the Royal College, every Internal Medicine
resident conducts a minimum of one quality assurance project during their core
three years; completion of this project is required by mid-point of the third
year of training. Dr. Darryl Leong, the Program Research Director, meets with
all residents individually to discuss research goals and facilitate research
projects.  Dr. Andrew Costa and Dr. Aaron Jones, located at the Waterloo
Regional Campus, are available to assist residents with the facilitation of
research projects that take advantage of addressing research questions within
the community setting. To this end, all residents learn basic principles of
research through instruction in evidence-based medicine, a formal research
curriculum in the PGY1 year and completion of their continuous quality
improvement project. A full description of the research curriculum is
available. [https://research.mcmaster.ca/](https://research.mcmaster.ca/)  

The department holds an annual Resident Research Day in the spring with
representation from all levels of core and subspecialties. Research funding is
available through several sources: preceptor support, RMA grants, and four
McMaster Internal Medicine Program grants, including a grant in education
research. Residents are granted 1-2 blocks of research time for projects.

At the Waterloo Campus, specific research opportunities in the fields of
technology and innovation are available to interested trainees. Innovation and
research are top strategic priorities for both Grand River and St. Mary’s
General Hospital. Through partnerships with institutions across the Waterloo-
Wellington region, including the University of Waterloo and McMaster
University School of Medicine - Waterloo Region Campus, both hospitals provide
researchers and clinicians the opportunity to work together on ground-breaking
studies that help advance exceptional care.

**Resident Involvement and Leadership in Educational Activities:  
  
**

Residents play a pivotal role in the education of the junior house staff. The
Program has a commitment to provide the skills needed to be an effective
teacher. Workshops are integrated throughout the program to develop the skills
appropriate at each level.  

Due to the unique undergraduate medical program at McMaster, with its emphasis
on small group learning, there are many opportunities for resident involvement
in formal undergraduate education.  This is true of both Hamilton and Waterloo
campuses. The Waterloo Regional Campus enrolled its charter undergraduate
medical school class in 2007.  Annual undergraduate enrollment of 28 students
generates 84 undergraduate learners on site over the residents' 3-year
program.  Residents frequently participate in teaching within the formal
Clinical Skills curriculum, and on clinical service rotations. They may also
take the lead in medicine teaching rounds and provide mentorship. If
interested, residents can be considered for Problem Based Learning Co-tutor
roles, specific procedural skills development teaching sessions and as
resources/leadership in student coordinated Interest Groups.

Additionally, there are opportunities to teach and/or facilitate workshops at
the McMaster annual Book to Bedside Conference at the main campus. Residents
at all levels have had extensive teaching in CBME/CBD and thus play a pivotal
role in the bedside assessment and evaluation of junior learners. Finally, the
major focus of the mandatory Teaching Medical Resident role held by each
resident in the third year is the development of teaching and administrative
skills.

Residents co-chair the Academic Half Day committee and are responsible for
curriculum planning. The program as a whole is committed to ensuring strong
resident representation on our planning committees, often in the role of co-
chair with the support of a faculty member. Representation on the Education
Committee allows residents to provide leadership in all aspects of
programming. Mentorship and strong support are offered to residents wanting to
pilot new curricular elements. For example, the development of the social
medicine rotation and POCUS curriculum were resident-led initiatives. Research
in Medical Education is strongly supported in the department.

**Academic Curriculum**

The formal Academic Curriculum is designed to provide sessions in the Medical
Expert role of GIM and its subspecialties as well as the non-Medical Expert
CanMEDS roles.  Residents in the KW Community Based Program are expected to
attend all program mandated educational events. Funding will be available for
travel for mandated educational in-person events occurring in Hamilton.  Aside
from sessions on all medical topics, educational opportunities exist for
developing skills in research and education.

All community rotations will have a specialty-specific curriculum, consisting
of didactic sessions and bedside teaching.

The formal Academic Curriculum includes the following:

  * Weekly Academic Half-Day which is mandated for residents during all clinical rotations
    * Lectures from content experts in topics derived from the Royal College Competencies during the first 14 months of training
    * Small-group Case-Based Learning commences in the fall of PGY2, continuing through PGY3
  * PGY1 Resident autumn CanMEDS Symposium
    * Series of workshops on non-medical expert competencies
  * PGY1 Evidence-Based Medicine Curriculum September-December
  * PGY1 Research Curriculum January - June
  * PGY1 Clinical Skills Curriculum January - June
  * Annual fall Evidence Based Medicine Retreat, all levels
  * Annual spring professional competency retreat: End-of life; medical ethics; medical error/patient safety, Global Health, etc.
  * Senior Medical Resident Symposium
    * Workshops in key areas needed to be successful as a senior resident - teaching; feedback; time management; conflict management
  * Longitudinal Simulation curriculum, including procedure and team-based simulation and point-of-care ultrasound
  * Teaching Medical Resident Symposium
    * Workshops in Chief Medical Resident role
  * Resuscitation/Simulation curriculum
    * 2-day workshops on resuscitation in June of PGY1 year
    * Point of Care Ultrasound Curriculum (PoCUS)
    * Interdisciplinary code and pre-code simulation on CTU
    * Procedural skills workshop in cadaver lab, PGY1
  * Resident as Teacher Curriculum
  * CTU-based weekly Senior Clinical Skills
  * Program-wide Journal Clubs
  * Annual Resident Research Day

Evidence-Based Medicine: McMaster University has acquired an international
reputation for its work in Evidence-Based Medicine (EBM), and residents can
expect to work with some of the leading practitioners in this field. Residents
learn the theoretical principles underlying Evidence-Based Medicine and how to
incorporate into their practice. Residents will find a number of resources
available to help them learn EBM. As well, the formal curriculum (EBM retreat,
PGY1 EBM Curriculum) is taught by recognized leaders in EBM.



**PGY-1**

**Mandatory:**

  * General Medicine Clinical Teaching Units (CTU):  4 blocks, including **2 blocks  in Hamilton and 2 blocks in Kitchener.**
  * **1 block JMR**
  * Intensive Care Unit and Cardiology (2 blocks each) – Waterloo Campus
  * Up to one block of in a non-internal medicine specialty rotation.  Examples include psychiatry, general surgery, radiology and emergency medicine – Waterloo Campus
  * Ambulatory Care Clinics/Chronic Disease Management Clinics: 2 blocks – Waterloo Campus
    * Clinics may include but are not limited to Palliative, Perioperative Medicine, Heart Function, Geriatrics, Respirology, General Internal Medicine Rapid Access Clinic, Dermatology, Diabetes and General Endocrinology, Benign Hematology, Medical Oncology, Allergy-Immunology, or Radiology

  * Selectives: 4-5 blocks – Waterloo Campus. 
    * May include Infectious Diseases, Respirology, Gastroenterology, or others, depending on the resident’s interests (rheumatology, neurology, allergy-immunology, dermatology, and others)

**PGY-2  Mandatory:**

  * Senior Medical Resident on General Medicine CTUs: 4 blocks 
  * **2 blocks at one of the Hamilton sites**  
  * **2 blocks at the Waterloo Campus’s Grand River Hospital CTU**  
  * Intensive Care Unit: 1 block 
  * Ambulatory Care Chronic Disease Management Clinics: 1 block  
  * Coronary Care Unit: 1 block in PGY2 or PGY3 years  
  * Nephrology: 1 block in PGY2 or PGY3 years   

**Selectives:**  

  * **Medical Subspecialties** : 3-6 blocks including, but not limited to, the following: Allergy/Immunology, Cardiology, Dermatology, Endocrinology, Gastroenterology, Geriatrics, Infectious Diseases, Hematology/Oncology, Medical Oncology, Nephrology, Neurology, Palliative Care, Respirology, or Rheumatology 
  * Research: 1-2 blocks (can be combined with clinics for 2-month block) 
  * Electives: maximum 3 blocks (PGY2/PGY3) 
  * Community Elective in GIM – an option for select residents wishing to travel outside of the WRC sites for additional community experience 

Note: Community GIM rotations, outside electives or clinic/research rotations
may be completed any time during the second and third core years.

**P****GY-3  Mandatory:**

  * Teaching Medical Resident on General Medicine CTU: 1 block Night Float Hamilton
  * Intensive Care Unit: 1 block 
  * Ambulatory Care Chronic Disease Management Clinics: 1- 2 blocks 
  * Coronary Care Unit: If not taken in second year (1 block) 
  * Choice between Junior Attending or Academic Reflection (flex rotation to work towards mastery or to fill in educational gaps): 1 block 
  * Chief Medical Resident on General Medicine CTU: 1 block Kitchener-Waterloo campuses.

**Selective:  **

  * **Medical Subspecialties** : 4-6 blocks (see subspecialty list above) 
  * Electives:  3 blocks (if not taken in PGY2 year) 
  * Research: 1-2 blocks (if not taken in PGY2 year) (can be combined with clinics for 2-month block) 

**Notes:**  

Outside electives and clinic/research rotations may be completed any time
during the second and third core years  
During the PGY3 year, each resident is appointed as Chief Medical Resident
(CMR) for 2 blocks on one of the Medicine CTUs.  The chief rotation is split
between the Hamilton and Kitchener-Waterloo sites.  The primary responsibility
of the Chief resident is to organize and provide education in the form of
coaching, teaching and assessment of junior trainees on the CTU. There is an
option to assume a clinical CTU leadership role as Junior Attending for 1
block, which can be completed at either the Hamilton or Waterloo campus

There is also opportunity to apply for the Longitudinal Chief role at the
Clinical Teaching Unit (CTU) at Grand river Hospital.

* * *

# Training Sites

**St. Mary's General Hospital:**  

  * 153 bed facility; 8500 admissions and 55,000 ER visits per year 
  * Site of the Regional Cardiac Care Centre, Respiratory Medicine; Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery 
  * Equipped with videoconferencing capability 

**Grand River Hospital:**  

  * 574 bed facility; 25,000 admissions and 67,000 ER visits per year 

  * Provides specialized regional services, including dialysis, oncology, regional stroke referrals, psychiatry, trauma services, rehabilitation  
  * Clinical teaching unit and GIM rapid access clinic 
  * Equipped with videoconferencing capability 

**Cambridge Memorial Hospital**  

  * 123 bed acute care facility, with over 46,000 emergency visits and 1100 births per year 

  * Equipped with videoconferencing capability 

**Guelph General Hospital**  

  * Specialty programs include general medicine, bariatrics, general and vascular surgery, orthopedics, cardiac care, critical care, obstetrics, pediatrics 

**Kitchener-Waterloo:**

Kitchener has a population of 272,220 and its twin city of Waterloo has a
population of 132,519. In Kitchener and Waterloo, we combine first-rate big
city services and amenities with the welcoming smile and personal touch that
has given us a reputation as one of the country's best places to visit.
Kitchener-Waterloo is home to the Universities of Waterloo and Wilfred Laurier
as well as a host of tech startups, making it a vibrant and thriving area.

Every urban amenity is available here. From our dynamic nightlife and fabulous
restaurants to world-class cultural facilities, family-friendly activities and
destinations - Kitchener-Waterloo has it all. Whether you're young, old, or
somewhere in between - you will find plenty to enjoy at our many festivals and
events. As the community cautiously moves into a much-anticipated re-opening
phase post pandemic we are optimistic that you’ll find much to enjoy about
this area.  

If you are an outdoors enthusiast, Kitchener-Waterloo delivers. With over 200
kilometers of community trails, premier sports fields, Olympic-sized ice pads,
swimming facilities, and golf courses, the possibilities are endless.

Kitchener-Waterloo is home to multiple community-based resident trainees in
addition to its undergraduate medical students. KW-based residents training in
family practice, pediatrics, emergency medicine, and psychiatry, are a
consistent presence; internal medicine trainees at this distributed site are
by no means alone at the hospital training sites! We also host a constant
stream of elective residents and fellows from multiple programs and multiple
sites at both hospitals.

* * *

# Additional Information

**Find out More!**

If you have specific questions about McMaster's Waterloo-based Internal
Medicine training program please direct them to Kerri Alves, our program
administrator.  She will direct you to one of our keen resident
representatives or to the Regional Education Lead, Dr. Kruisselbrink.

If you'd like to email a resident, please do so here:
[wrcimres@gmail.com](mailto:wrcimres@gmail.com)

All Waterloo based residents will be able to access Hamilton based rotations
throughout their three years as noted above in the curriculum description. For
further information about the Hamilton based teaching sites, please visit
their CaRMS program description.

We are happy to answer questions by email, phone or host you on a site visit
of our campus and teaching hospitals.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26265?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26265