#  University of Toronto - Cardiac Surgery - Toronto

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 09, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Bobby Yanagawa  

Address Cardiovascular Surgery  
30 Bond St, Room 003D, Floor 8  
St Michael's Hospital  
Toronto, Ontario, M5B 1W8  

Work  416 864 5706

Cell  647 938 1781

Websites of Interest [ Division of Cardiac Surgery
](http://www.surg.med.utoronto.ca/CARD/programs.html)  
[ PGME at U of T ](http://www.pgme.utoronto.ca/)  
[ Provincial Criteria ](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/)  
[ Institute of Medical Sciences ](https://ims.utoronto.ca/home)  
[ Surgeon Scientist research programme
](http://surgery.utoronto.ca/research/surgeonscientist.htm)  
[ Post Graduate Cor-ed ](http://pg.postmd.utoronto.ca/?s=cored)  
[ RCPSC Competency by design programme
](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e)  
[ CaRMS regarding CBD ](https://www.carms.ca/en/rcpsc/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: Sep 2023-Nov 2024

Name: Thanu Sebasen

Title: Program Administrator

Email: Cardiac.admin@utoronto.ca

Phone: 4168352886

  

General Information: Currently on Mat leave

Name: Julie Wei (Mat leave till Nov 2024)

Title: Program Administrator

Email: cardiac.admin@utoronto.ca

Phone: (416) 340-4800 Ext.5275

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion**  
All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of the
University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)  
** The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.  
  
_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

#  

Please note the following new information:

The Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada: Applying competency-
based practices to residency education

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/competence-design-e), aims to enhance
patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving
patient needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education
process.

CBD will use [time as a
framework](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e)
rather than the basis for progression. It is not anticipated that the duration
of training will change for the majority of trainees. Residency programs will
be broken down into
[stages](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/documents/cbd/cbd-competence-
continuum-diagram-legal-e.pdf), and each stage will have a series of
milestones based on required competencies. These milestones will create more
targeted learning outcomes and involve more frequent, formative assessments
within the clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving
feedback on the skills they need.

Cardiac Surgery programs will adopt CBD in 2019. Thus Residents entering
Cardiac Surgery from this year forward will experience CBD-based learning and
assessment. As the adoption of this model is refined it will be enhanced to
better reflect stakeholder needs.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and
traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification. Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs
will include the completion of a Royal College examination; however, residents
in CBD programs will also be assessed against program milestones throughout
their training. Within a CBD program, all milestones (documented within an
electronic portfolio) and the Royal College examination must be successfully
completed to achieve certification.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).





* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. If possible one or more letters from
a faculty member in cardiac surgery is helpful but not required. A letter from
a senior resident will be accepted.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

Each candidate is expected to write a short letter of application to the
program. Please outline any personal history that may be appropriate and
relevant to your application. Also state your reasons for choosing cardiac
surgery as a career and outline your accomplishments both academic and non-
academic as well as your future goals.

Maximum word count: 1000 (no minimum)  
  
_Important Note: Please address any gaps in training or remediation periods in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count._

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 3, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held virtually.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Personal interviews are an essential
part of our candidate selection process. Formal interviews will be granted to
candidates shortlisted after review of completed applications by the program
director and committee. Shortlisted applicants will be contacted by the
program office to arrange an interview.  
  
Shortlisted applicants are interviewed by a selection committee consisting of
the division head/educational lead of each cardiac unit, the program director,
the program chairman, the research director, undergraduate director and a
senior resident. The interview is panel style, for a duration of 20 minutes.
Applicants are encouraged to ask members of the committee questions relevant
to the program.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

-A superior academic record demonstrating special proficiency in subjects related to our specialty

-Candidates should have a proven interest in our specialty, demonstrated by electives or other rotations in cardiothoracic surgery or related fields. 

** We understand that it is not possible for candidates to complete external
electives due to COVID. If you do not have CV surgery at your institution and
as such did not complete any electives in our field, we will still consider
your application. **

-Three references are required. If possible one or more letters from a faculty member in cardiac surgery is helpful but not required.

-Candidates with an interest and/or proven experience in research, either at the level of basic science or clinical research, are encouraged to apply.

## Program goals

#### GOAL

#### Our program seeks to train successful cardiac surgeon-scientists.
Accordingly, we are looking for a cohort of residents that demonstrate promise
to be excellent surgeons, researchers and educators with the potential to
become international leaders in cardiac surgery.

####  

#### ATTRIBUTES

#### Applicants providing evidence of maturity, clinical judgment and
technical skill in the CaRMS application file will be prioritized for further
consideration. Successful applicants will be able to demonstrate 1) their
desire for a career in cardiac surgery, 2) an understanding of a dedication
required to become a successful cardiac surgeon, 3) knowledge of the current
state and trajectory of our field, 4) their career goals at the time of
interviews.

## Selection process goals

#### We are looking for evidence of the following:

  1. #### Integrity

  2. #### Clinical Skills

  3. #### Leadership

  4. #### Empathy

  5. #### Team Work

  6. #### Work Ethic

  7. #### Academic Productivity or Potential

  8. #### Community Service

####  

#### CRITERIA

#### Candidates will be ranked based on:

####             50% Application

####             50% Interviews

####  

#### Final ranks will be determined solely by an aggregate score based on the
criteria above. The selection committee reserves the right to adjust final
ranking by consensus to address issues of program priority and diversity.

## File review process

Review team composition : 1. Division Chair  
2\. Program Director  
3\. Chiefs of all major teaching hospitals  
4\. Jr and Sr resident  
5\. Other surgical staff

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We do evaluate this file component   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We do evaluate this file component. We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted candidates’ opportunities to arrange and complete electives and would like to reassure you that a lack of elective activity this year will not negatively impact your application to our program.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We do evaluate this file component   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  We do evaluate this file component   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  We do evaluate this file component   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  We do evaluate this file component   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  We do evaluate this file component   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We do evaluate this file component   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We do evaluate this file component   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted
candidates’ opportunities to arrange and complete electives and would like to
reassure you that a lack of elective activity this year will not negatively
impact your application to our program.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We do evaluate this file component   
Collegiality |  We do evaluate this file component   
Communication skills |  We do evaluate this file component   
Health advocacy |  We do evaluate this file component   
Interest in the discipline |  We do evaluate this file component   
Interest in the program |  We do evaluate this file component   
Leadership skills |  We do evaluate this file component   
Professionalism |  We do evaluate this file component   
Scholarly activities |  We do evaluate this file component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The cardiac surgery residency program at the University of Toronto is the
largest and perhaps most diverse of its kind in Canada.  Our vision is to
ensure excellence in clinical and academic training of our Residents.  We aim
to prepare tomorrow’s leaders in Cardiac Surgery. Our training Program is home
to approximately 50 faculty members, over 5 teaching hospitals. We offer
outstanding opportunities to engage in research activities. Our faculty
members are highly invested in Residency Training and many are opinion leaders
in their own subspecialty area. Under the leadership of Dr Terry Yau (Chair)
and Dr. Bobby Yanagawa (PD) the Program provides a rich environment for
learning and enquiry. The University of Toronto teaching hospitals provide
surgical care for a large urban population as well as patients from a vast
catchment area and referral network. This arrangement provides outstanding
learning opportunities and a breadth of clinical volume that is unsurpassed
almost anywhere in North America.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 6 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

#### The cardiac residency program at the University of Toronto is designed to
educate and train residents to become excellent clinical and academic
surgeons. Through the availability of a dedicated faculty and extensive
clinical and research facilities, the resident will have a broad and complete
educational program in preparation for independent practice and research.

#### The residency program is designed to fulfil the requirements of the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada for cardiac surgery.
(www.royalcollege.ca). The program extends over a six year period.

#### As of 2019-2020, all Cardiac surgical programmes in Canada will commence
a competency-based curriculum as developed and outlined by the Royal College
of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada termed Competency By Design. More
information regarding the educational changes in Canada can be found at
www.carns.ca/en/rcpsc (see "websites of intrerest" section )

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

There are five cardiac units which participate in the University of Toronto
Cardiac Surgical Training Program:

St. Michael's Hospital

Toronto General Hospital

Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre

Trillium Health Partners

Hospital for Sick Children

  
All University affiliated institutions have access to extensive research
facilities, including laboratory and academic supervisors. Sunnybrook Health
Sciences Centre is also affiliated with the Institute for Clinical and
Evaluative Studies (ICES). The University of Toronto Surgeon Scientist
Programme encourages research utilizing supervisors from the University of
Toronto and may be able to provide funding for research through the
University.  

All trainees also have access to the University of Toronto Surgical Skills Lab
at Mount Sinai Hospital.

For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>

* * *

# Additional Information

  1. **Permanent Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education office in order to comply with current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry of Colleges and Universities
  2. **Matched applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data file to the matched university’s postgraduate education office. The postgraduate office will share the information as needed, but not limited to, the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:**  The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure to meet or provide proof**  of any of the stated requirements may result in applicant file being removed at any point during the match.

* * *

# FAQ

1.  Is prior research experience required of applicants?  

_Although academics is a strong focus of the Cardiac Surgical Training Program
at the University of Toronto, prior research experience is not a prerequisite
for acceptance.   However, evidence of academic productivity or potential may
lend support to a candidate's application.  All trainees are expected to
undertake at least one year (preferably two or three) of academic enrichment
during the training program. This may be either clinical or research based. _



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26906?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26906