#  University of Calgary - General Surgery - Calgary  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 28, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Adrian Harvey  

Address General Surgery  
Foothills Medical Centre  
Room 1024 - North Tower  
1403 - 29 Street NW, Calgary, Alberta, T2N 2T9  

Work  403-944-8022

Fax

Websites of Interest [ University of Calgary
](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/departments/surgery/sections/general-
surgery/education/general-surgery-residency)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Erin Layton

Title: Program/Lead CaRMS Coordinator

Email: erin.layton@albertahealthservices.ca

  

Name: Dr. Adrian Harvey

Title: Program Director

Email: adrian.harvey@albertahealthservices.ca

  

Name: Dr. Nathan Zondervan

Title: Assistant Program Director

Email: njzonder@ucalgary.ca

  

Name: Amy Jeffery

Title: Program/CaRMS Coordinator

Email: amy.jeffery@albertahealthservices.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Calgary virtual interviews will be hosted on January 30th, 2025.  Additional
dates will not be considered.  **Successful**  applicants will be contacted
via email.

Please refer all correspondence to Erin Layton
([erin.layton@ahs.ca](mailto:erin.layton@ahs.ca)) and Amy Jeffery
([amy.jeffery@ahs.ca](mailto:amy.jeffery@ahs.ca)).



Follow our twitter and instagram accounts to keep up to date with the medical
student information sessions.

**Twitter:** https://twitter.com/Calgarygensurg

**Instagram:** https://www.instagram.com/Calgarygensurg

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

**PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CAREFULLY**

IMGs who wish to compete for postgraduate medical training positions in
Alberta are eligible to apply to IMG positions at the University of Alberta
and the University of Calgary provided they have applied to and been assessed
as eligible by the Alberta International Medical Graduate Program (AIMG)
Program.

The AIMG Program determination of eligibility to participate in the match
process is valid for the specified match year only. Please visit the AIMG
Program website ([www.aimg.ca](http://www.aimg.ca/)) for details on deadlines,
eligibility criteria and the application process.

ALL matched applicants MUST successfully complete an Externship before they
can proceed to residency training. Applicants MUST be available to start
Externship on the date set by the AIMG program. CPSA licensure is mandatory
for this component. The AIMG Program will provide information on this process
to successful applicants.

All matched applicants must meet the licensing criteria for registration with
the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA) for postgraduate
education. Please review the requirements at
[www.cpsa.ab.ca](http://www.cpsa.ab.ca/). Any delays in providing the required
documentation to the CPSA may result in a delay in the issuance of licensure
and a delay in the start of Externship and postgraduate training.

Externship is comprised of 2-weeks virtual orientation, workshops and academic
sessions and 4-8 weeks of clinical assessment.

Residency programs determine the final outcome of Externship; the decision is
final and there is no appeal process.



* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Examinations

Required

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

National Assessment Collaboration (NAC) OSCE result is REQUIRED. Both pages of
the report must be submitted If you opted out of the NAC OSCE, then the
Alberta OSCE result must be submitted. ** Results are valid for 3 years and
only the most recent result can be used**

Optional - will be reviewed

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

Maximum of 750 words.

Alberta IMG Program (AIMGP) Multiple Mini Interview (MMI) results

Multiple Mini Interviews (MMI) scores will be shared directly to the residency
programs by AIMG. MMI results are not submitted by applicants.

Postgraduate Medical Training Certificate

If applicable, please include as much detail as possible regarding specific
rotation and degree of responsibility (ie. junior, senior resident).

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

The General Surgery Resident Selection committee will review all applicants'
files beginning in early December. Candidates will be ranked with the top 51
being invited for a virtual interview during the interview period.  The
interview date is January 30th, 2025.

Please refer all correspondence to Erin Layton
([erin.layton@ahs.ca](mailto:erin.layton@ahs.ca)) and Amy Jeffery
([amy.jeffery@ahs.ca](mailto:amy.jeffery@ahs.ca)).

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 30, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Notification/Invitation: Program will
notify all applicants through CaRMS Online and will send email invitations
directly to applicants selected for an interview.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Due of the large number of applicants
to our program, we are unable to interview all of the qualified applicants.
Prior to granting interviews, all applicant files are thoroughly reviewed.
Candidates who are short-listed for interviews will be contacted via email.
Interview dates are coordinated with all General Surgery Programs in Canada.
Please ensure that you block the whole day for your interviews.  
  
In order to maintain consistency and ensure convenience for all applicants,
interviews are done on one day by a team of interviewers. Our program relies
heavily on the use of a highly structured interview process. In view of the
complexity of organizing such structured interviews, we will only be offering
this type of interview on one day.  Each candidate will have two or three 20
minute interviews (conducted by faculty & residents).  All applicants will
have an opportunity to speak with the program director.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

**ACADEMIC RECORD**

**REFERENCES:** Please provide three letters of reference from specialists in
General Surgery.  Specific comments related to ability, interpersonal skills
and interests in surgery are helpful.

**RESEARCH BACKGROUND:** Candidates should specifically address interests in
clinical and / or basic science research.

**PRIOR EXPERIENCE IN SURGERY:**   Refers to not only rotations in surgery as
a medical student and clinical clerk but also electives applicant may have
done in surgery.   Past experience, future goals and aspirations are
considered by the committee.

Maturity, sensitivity, and honesty are important qualities of a surgical
candidate and demonstration of these attributes will be sought for during the
selection process.

**PERSONEL LETTERS:**   A personal letter is required in which candidates
outline their reasons for wishing to pursue a surgical career and training at
University of Calgary.

## Program goals

Teaching Mission:

To foster an educational environment in order for our trainees to develop into
safe, competent, and appropriately confident general surgeons

Objectives:

  * To develop medical expertise through a rigorous curriculum taught by content experts in both academic and clinical environments
  * To provide trainees graded responsibility in order to foster independent clinical decision making
  * To support life-long and individualized learning through enquiry, scholarly activity, and personal development
  * To teach principles of quality improvement and quality assurance as well as incorporating them into clinical practice
  * To foster social accountability and patient advocacy both at the individual and societal levels
  * To role-model collaboration and communication with patients, colleagues, and other health-care professionals
  * To develop general surgeons who will become leaders in their field through innovation, research, education, and clinical excellence

## Selection process goals

Successful applicants will show promise of meeting and exceeding objectives
noted in our program goals.

Successful applicants will have a track record of academic excellence and
experience in General Surgery. They will have a strong balanced application
indicating intellectual interest and curiosity in General Surgery.

Succesful applicants will show an ability to develop medical expertise through
clinical experience in general surgery.

Successful applicants will demonstrate a "thirst for knowledge" and
demonstrate examples of life-long learning.

## File review process

Review team composition : Each application is reviewed by the Program Director
and at minimum one additional surgeon (usually 2 additional surgeons). Based
on scores, all applications are ranked and the top 51 candidates are granted
interviews.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  All Aspects of the CV are considered.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Elective experiences were severely limited due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we will not be considering electives in file review to ensure the process is fair and equitable for all candidates.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  All aspects of the applicants' extra-curricular activities are considered.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  All aspects of the applicants' leadership skills are considered.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  All aspects of the MSRPs are considered.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  This will be strongly considered due to the inability to complete electives.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  All aspects of the Reference Documents are considered.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  All aspects of the Research/Publications section are considered.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  All Aspects of the Transcripts section are considered.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Alberta IMG Program (AIMGP) Multiple Mini Interview (MMI) results will be
submitted to CaRMS by the AIMG Program on your behalf. References: Please
provide at least one letter of reference from specialists in General Surgery.
Specific comments related to ability, interpersonal skills and interests in
surgery are helpful. Research Background: Candidates should specifically
address interests in clinical and or basic science research. Prior experience
in Surgery: Refers to not only rotations in surgery as a medical student and
clinical clerk but also electives that the applicant may have done in surgery.
Past experience, future goals and aspirations are considered by the committee.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  A candidate's ability to collaborate in clinical and academic settings will be considered.   
Collegiality |  A candidate's collegiality and ability to function within a team setting will be considered. This is a key attribute.   
Communication skills |  A candidate's communication skills will be strongly considered.   
Health advocacy |  Experience in health advocacy will be an asset to the candidate's application.   
Interest in the discipline |  Interest in General Surgery supported by clinical experience, research, and professional references are strongly considered.   
Interest in the program |  This is difficult to assess due to the limitations set by COVID 19.   
Leadership skills |  A candidate's leadership skills will be strongly considered.   
Professionalism |  Professionalism is the cornerstone of medical practice. It is a key attribute our program evaluates.   
Scholarly activities |  A candidate's scholarly activities will be considered.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The University of Calgary is a medium-sized program with the benefits of both
a large and small sized General Surgery residency program. The majority of our
core general surgery rotations occur between two main sites (Foothills Medical
Centre and Peter Lougheed Centre) promoting close relationships with the staff
and fellow residents very well. This helps facilitate mentorship opportunities
and support networks. Calgary is a major academic centre with exposure to all
general surgery subspecialties with the exception of liver transplant. The
Calgary program offers residents opportunities to do community General Surgery
rotations within Calgary and peripheral sites such as Lethbridge and Red Deer.
Calgary is supportive of research and requires residents to participate in an
annual resident research day to highlight their accomplishments. Residents are
eligible to apply to formal research programs such as the Clinical
Investigator Program and the Surgeon Scientist Program. Graduates of the
Calgary program have been successful in obtaining community General Surgery
positions directly after residency, as well as obtaining highly competitive
fellowships within Canada and internationally.

Resident wellness is a priority. Happy and healthy residents are the
cornerstone of a successful residency program. The Calgary General Surgery
residency training program is a “family” that will support you in becoming a
competent and confident General Surgeon!

**Program Highlights:**

CIP/SSP:

Office of Surgical Research (OSR):

The Office of Surgical Research provides members of the Department of Surgery
with resources and supports to enhance research initiatives within the
department. They offer various operational and salary support grants such as
the Calgary Surgical Research Development Fund (CSRDF) as well as the Surgeon
Scientist Program (SSP). They can assist with grant writing, ethics
submissions, navigating policies, creating research goals, networking within
the institution and statistical support. More information can be found at:
https://www.ucalgary.ca/osr

Clinical Investigator Program (CIP):

The Clinical Investigator Program is a two-year accredited research program
through the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons. The program gives
residents and fellows the opportunity to pursue a MSc, PhD or Postdoctoral
training as part of their training. In addition to salary support, the program
offers weekly seminars and an annual research day as well as many added
benefits such as software licenses, networking opportunities, peer review and
so on. More information can be found at:https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/cip

Surgeon Scientist Program (SSP):

The Surgeon Scientist Program supports residents within the Department of
Surgery to pursue a Masters or PhD while enrolled in surgical training.
Funding of $60,000.00/yr is available on a competitive renewal system.
Residents interested in pursuing advanced degrees at another institution often
benefit from this funding as there is no requirement to pursue their degree at
the University of Calgary. More information can be found at:
https://ucalgary.ca/osr/node/51

**Informal Mentorship:**

Many residents have completed a Master’s degree or PhD during General Surgery
Training.  Research mentorship in basic science and clinical projects are
widely available.  Quality Improvement projects are strongly encouraged by
residents.

**Fellowships offered:**

Hepatobiliary

Upper GI and Bariatirics

Colorectal

Surgical Oncology

Endocrine

Trauma Surgery

Vascular Surgery

Thoracics Surgery



Every year the residency program hosts a “resident wellness weekend” held in
Banff, Alberta. The residents meet and engage in a series of sessions on
topics of residents’ choice (i.e. family life, leadership, finances as a
surgeon, mindfulness, sleep) as well as take part in a lot of fun activities
such as skiing, skating, and hiking!  This weekend is planned to coincide with
the Alberta Association of General Surgeons annual meeting.

Calgary is the home of the Calgary Stampede, as well as the Calgary Flames and
Stampeders. Downtown is full of restaurants and entertainment for those that
want to stay in the city on weekends. The mountains, with all their wonders
are a short drive away.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The five-year General Surgery residency training program at the University of
Calgary is designed to meet the objectives of core training in surgery and
provide broad-based training in the specialty of General Surgery.
Information is posted at this site and our website.  No other information can
be obtained from our office.

* * *

# Training Sites

The General Surgery Residency program is a five-year accredited program
leading to full credentialing in General Surgery by the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. Training occurs at five Calgary sites. Five
new residents will be added to the program.

Resources:

Peter Lougheed Centre (PLC)

Foothills Medical Centre (FMC)

Alberta Children's Hospital (ACH)

Rockyview General Hospital (RGH)

South Health Campus (SHC)

* * *

# Additional Information

The General Surgery Residency Training Program at the University of Calgary
transitioned to competency-based medical education (CBME) in July 2020 with
all trainees entering the program after this date affiliated with [Competence
by Design (CBD)](https://www.royalcollege.ca/en/standards-and-
accreditation/competence-by-design.html), which aims to enhance patient care
by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving patient
needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education process.

CBD uses time as a framework for competency assessment rather than the basis
for progression. It is not anticipated that the duration of training will
change for the majority of trainees. Residency training is broken down into
[stages](https://canmeds.royalcollege.ca/en/milestones), and each stage will
have a series of entrustable professional activities (EPAs) and milestones
based on the required competencies. These EPAs and milestones improve learning
outcomes and will involve more frequent, formative assessments within the
clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving feedback
on the skills they need.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26503?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26503