#  University of Ottawa - Vascular Surgery - Ottawa

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on September 12, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1 click here

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Prasad Jetty  

Address Division of Vascular Surgery  
The Ottawa Hospital, Civic Campus  
1053 Carling Avenue, Room A280  
Ottawa, Ontario, K1Y 4E9  

613-798-5555 x 10274

Websites of Interest

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Jetty Prasad

Title: Program Director

Email: pjetty@toh.ca

Phone: 613 798-5555 ex 16891

  

Name: Taryn Thibault

Title: Administrative Coordinator

Email: tathibault@toh.ca

Phone: 613798-5555 ex 16248

  

* * *

# Important Information

**All candidates must meet the Ontario Criteria of Eligibility**  found
[here](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-criteria/provincial-
criteria/ontario/).

**COVID-19 vaccination**

Please be aware that most, if not all, hospitals in Ontario have mandatory
COVID-19 vaccination policies in place that require, in the absence of a valid
medical or human rights exemption, proof of vaccination. Acceptable
vaccination must be in accordance with Health Canada. You will be required to
provide an attestation that you meet this requirement as part of the CaRMS
application process and any actual documentation will be collected by the
appropriate institution if matched. These guidelines could change at any time
in accordance with future direction from the Ministry of Health or the
Universities based on information from Public Health.

**MCCQE (Medical Council of Canada qualifying examination) Part 1 results** :

Trainees will be required to disclose their MCCQE Part 1 examination results,
upon entry into any of the University of Ottawa's training programs. The
purpose of this disclosure is to allow for resources to be provided to the few
residents who would benefit from extra support early in their residency in an
effort to maximize their success.

**Pre-Residency Program**

All International Medical Graduates accepted to all residency programs will be
required to complete the Pre-Residency Program (PRP) prior to entering a
residency program. Matched IMGs will be expected to attend the PRP virtually
and in-person through [Touchstone
Institute](https://linkprotect.cudasvc.com/url?a=https://touchstoneinstitute.ca/learning/preresidencyprogram/&c=E,1,1pmrj0brjE1Jtncubl-
JoSDah37A3ms-
KR6XMa7AWTWe9dQvR_LhM7FKM0qLPbW_NCHZBUn6R0tVjUDhVPsJvfh8LE-D64PuqwplO4izE85kVVicROo2ibQ,&typo=1).

**Failure to meet or provide proof of any of the stated requirements may
result in an applicant’s file not being reviewed or removed from the Rank
Order List.**

* * *

# Return of Service

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

All candidates must meet the Ontario criteria of eligibility
<https://www.carms.ca/match/msm/eligibility-criteria/ontario/>

Please be sure you have reviewed and understood the requirements for your
application before submitting.



* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  * Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  * Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  * Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  * Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Language assessment document accepted:  **TOEFL-iBT

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum score of 93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section. The TOEFL iBT Home Edition will be accepted as a substitute for the TOEFL iBT

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:**  must have minimum score of 7.0 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Occupational English Test (OET)
-Medicine

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP)

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum score of 9.0 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Letter of language proficiency

  * Letter of language proficiency is a letter from your Dean attesting that your medical school program of instruction was completed solely in English or French
  * Alternatively, candidates can submit a printout from the [World Directory of Medical Schools](http://www.wdoms.org/) which clearly states that the language of instruction is English or French.

Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site. Please
review specific program descriptions for more information.

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

Above average performance is required. Exam raw scores and percentiles in the
various sub scales will be used to select appropriate applicant files to
review. Scores and percentiles will be decided upon each year by the Residency
Selection Committee and will vary depending on the number of applications
received by the program.

**Results must be provided by File Review Date.**



NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

**Results must be provided by File Review Date.**

  * **Note:  MCCQE part II passing score can be used to apply instead of the NAC passing score.**

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Candidates may wish to describe important achievements, extracurricular
activities, personal goals during residency, etc.

Custom Résumé / CV

Outline past experiences, scholarly achievements, and include research
publications.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

**Must be a graduate from an acceptable medical school listed on the World
Directory of Medical Schools website at<http://www.wdoms.org/>.**

Order from your Registrar. Must be English original or certified translation.



Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

Please attach a copy of your undergrad transcripts.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 27, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews are scheduled virtually on
Monday January 27th, 2024  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: A short list of applicants will be
selected for an interview based on their application and its full contents.
Candidates to be interviewed will be contacted via email by the Program
Administrator. Interviews will be conducted via an online platform by the
Program Director and selected members of the Residency Program Committee  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Sought after criteria to achieve a high ranking include:

1.Demonstrated enthusiasm and commitment to the specialty of Vascular Surgery.

2.Well rounded individuals with interests both within and outside of medicine.

3.At least one elective to have been carried out in Vascular Surgery

## Program goals

Mission is to achieve Goals and Objectives of Vascular Surgery training in an
environment that fosters education, critical appraisal and intellectual
curiosity in a collaborative, stimulating and supporting atmosphere.

Upon completion of the training, a resident is expected to be a competent
specialist in Vascular Surgery capable of assuming a consultant's role in the
specialty.  The resident must acquire a working knowledge of the theoretical
basis of the specialty, including its foundations in the basic medical
sciences and research. Residents must demonstrate the requisite knowledge,
skills, and attitudes for effective patient-centered care and service to a
diverse population.



## Selection process goals

The Vascular Training Program in Ottawa is a strong clinical program with
emphasis on solid clinical and surgical training. The successful candidates
must have strong interpersonal and communication skills, empathy, resiliency
and integrity and must fit into the collegial mold of the program.  They
possess the skills and attributes to achieve all competencies in CanMEDS
roles, such as; Medical Expert, Communicator, Collaborator, Leader, Health
Advocate, Scholar and Professional.

## File review process

Review team composition : Application Review Committee comprising of Program
Director, Vascular Surgery Staff of the Program.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Educational background, elective experience, research experience, extra-curriculars, work experience   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Broad range of electives including one in vascular surgery   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of interests outside of medicine that contributes to personal fulfillment   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of previous experience in leadership positions, leadership philosophy   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Ensure no red flags such as failed rotations or professionalism concerns   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Memorable, personal and honest, shows interest in Vascular Surgery   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Attestation from supervisors concerning suitability of candidate for career in Vascular Surgery   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Participation in academic research. Please include in your CV.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Overall academic performance and successful completion of all pre-requisites   
Other file component(s) |  Pre-Medicine Undergraduate Studies transcript.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

At the University of Ottawa, we believe that the best residents are those who
have been able to explore the breadth of the medical profession through
suitable electives while enrolled in medical school.  We do not preferentially
rank applicants who have only pursued electives in one discipline.  We support
the concept that students should do a minimum of at least 2 week electives in
3 different specialties.

Medical Students that have completed an elective in the Division of Vascular
Surgery with The Ottawa Hospital/University of Ottawa will have better insight
to our program and will help them with the application process however this is
not a prerequisite to apply.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Approach to teamwork with use of pre-determined scenario question.   
Collegiality |  Kind and professional interactions with everyone throughout the interview process.   
Communication skills |  Clear, concise and focused verbal and non-verbal interactions; appropriate emotional intelligence.   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrates appreciation for the physician's role as advocate for individual patients and communities.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated knowledge of its scope of practice; exposure to the field clinically or for research.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated knowledge of offered training experiences; asks relevant questions about program.   
Leadership skills |  Evidence of leading groups, being captain, having great responsibility in healthcare/other setting.   
Professionalism |  Evidence of good moral reasoning, compassion, commitment and resilience in medical/other scenarios.   
Scholarly activities |  Describes experiences conducting research; describes future interests in research.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Division of Vascular Surgery at the University of Ottawa boasts a long
history of excellence in training vascular surgeons and is recognized as one
of Canada’s earliest vascular surgery programs. Our 5-year program is
meticulously designed to meet and exceed Royal College standards, producing
successful graduates who are now practicing across Canada, USA, Kuwait, Oman,
UAE and Saudi Arabia.

Since consolidating vascular surgery at the Civic Campus in 2000, our program
benefits from one of the largest institutional volumes of clinical vascular
surgery in Canada. Serving a catchment area of 1.25 to 1.5 million people, we
provide extensive clinical experience in both open and endovascular
procedures. Despite the demanding workload, we ensure a balanced approach to
education and personal life, supported by additional staff and resources.

Currently, our program hosts 7 residents. Most join via direct CaRMS entry,
with occasional placements for those coming from general surgery into a 2-year
fellowship stream. Since adopting the Competency by Design (CBD) curriculum in
2021, we offer a comprehensive training experience- in addition to a simple,
complex and advanced open vascular and endovascular surgical procedures, our
residency training program includes exposure to cardiac, general, thoracic,
and plastic surgery, critical care, interventional radiology, stroke
neurology, amputation rehabilitation, ID, and wound care. The curriculum
emphasizes early exposure and independence, preparing residents for
independent surgical practice. Our educational framework includes weekly
‘Difficult Case Rounds, Wednesday morning rounds, and dedicated academic half-
days featuring chapter readings, quizzes, and technical skills sessions.

Several of our surgeons have completed fellowships in minimally invasive
Endovascular Surgery. This expertise allows us to offer a balanced training
curriculum in both open and endovascular procedures. In addition, our program
enjoys a cooperative relationship with Interventional Radiology. The
collaborative environment enhances endovascular skills through a two-month
rotation in the angio-suite.

The Vascular Diagnostic Laboratory at the Ottawa Hospital’s Civic Campus,
accredited by the Intersocietal Commission for the Accreditation of Vascular
Laboratories (ICAVL), performs high-quality non-invasive vascular
investigations daily. Residents benefit from rotations in the lab, gaining
proficiency in diagnostic procedures and their interpretation.

Research is a priority within our division. We employ a full-time research
coordinator nurse to assist residents with their projects. Our faculty
includes three members with Masters of Epidemiology, providing excellent
supervision for research and thesis projects. Residents can take ‘research
blocks’ to focus on research or coursework for advanced degrees. Additionally,
we support trainees in the surgeon scientist program with extended funding,
contributing to their successful Master’s thesis defenses.

Our program’s greatest strength lies in its culture of collegiality, respect,
professionalism, and integrity. These values, established by past leaders, are
deeply ingrained in our faculty and trainees. Our graduates are not only
highly skilled but also exemplify these core principles in their practices,
providing exceptional care in their communities.

Equity is a cornerstone of our program, evident in our clinical and
educational practices. Staff surgeons share clinical and financial
responsibilities equally, promoting fairness regardless of surgical volume or
administrative duties. This commitment to equity fosters a diverse and
inclusive environment, reflected in the diversity seen in our graduate cohorts
over the past 2 decades.

Our training program stands as one of the oldest in Canada, distinguished by
its commitment to education, equity, professionalism, and patient care.



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

####  

The University of Ottawa Vascular surgery curriculum is designed to meet and
exceed the minimum training requirement standards set forth by the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. All with the ultimate goal of
producing a competent Vascular Surgery consultant.

The Vascular Surgery Training Program covers a period of five clinical years
with the option of including additional research years enfolded within the
residency after the PGY-2 year. Since adopting the Competency by Design (CBD)
curriculum in 2021, we offer a comprehensive training experience- in addition
to a simple, complex and advanced open vascular and endovascular surgical
procedures, our residency training program includes exposure to cardiac,
general, thoracic,  and plastic surgery, critical care, interventional
radiology, stroke neurology, amputation rehabilitation, ID, and wound care.
The curriculum emphasizes early exposure and independence, preparing residents
for independent surgical practice. Our educational framework includes weekly
‘Difficult Case Rounds, Wednesday morning rounds, and dedicated academic half-
days featuring chapter readings, quizzes, and technical skills sessions.

* * *

# Training Sites

Vascular Surgery Program

Training Sites include: The three campuses of The Ottawa Hospital and the
Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario.

The program offers a balanced volume of learning encounters in both open
surgery and the full scope of endovascular procedures. The Ottawa Hospital is
the tertiary referral center for Vascular disease in Eastern Ontario providing
more than adequate patient volumes to ensure a comprehensive educational
experience.  The surgical faculty are dedicated to ensuring trainees leave the
program ready for practice. The Vascular Diagnostic Laboratory at the Ottawa
Hospital’s Civic Campus, accredited by the Intersocietal Commission for the
Accreditation of Vascular Laboratories (ICAVL), performs high-quality non-
invasive vascular investigations daily. Residents benefit from rotations in
the lab, gaining proficiency in diagnostic procedures and their
interpretation.

* * *

# Additional Information

Contact the Program administrator if additional information is required.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26970?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26970