#  University of Ottawa - Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery - Ottawa

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on September 12, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1 click here

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Ryan  Rourke  

Address Otolaryngology & Head and Neck Surgery  
The Ottawa Hospital - General Campus  
501 Smyth Rd  
Ottawa K1H 8L6, Ontario  

(613) 737-8899x73041

Websites of Interest [ Department of Otolaryngology- Head and Neck Surgery
](http://med.uottawa.ca/otolaryngology/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Ryan Rourke/Ms Gabrielle St-Jean Savoie

Title: Program Director/Program Administrator

Email: gstjeansavoie@toh.ca

Phone: 613-737-8899x73041

  

* * *

# Important Information

**All candidates must meet the Ontario Criteria of Eligibility**  found
[here](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-criteria/provincial-
criteria/ontario/).

**COVID-19 vaccination**

Please be aware that most, if not all, hospitals in Ontario have mandatory
COVID-19 vaccination policies in place that require, in the absence of a valid
medical or human rights exemption, proof of vaccination. Acceptable
vaccination must be in accordance with Health Canada. You will be required to
provide an attestation that you meet this requirement as part of the CaRMS
application process and any actual documentation will be collected by the
appropriate institution if matched. These guidelines could change at any time
in accordance with future direction from the Ministry of Health or the
Universities based on information from Public Health.

**Pre-Residency Program**

All International Medical Graduates accepted to all residency programs will be
required to complete the Pre-Residency Program (PRP) prior to entering a
residency program. Matched IMGs will be expected to attend the PRP virtually
and in-person through [Touchstone
Institute](https://linkprotect.cudasvc.com/url?a=https://touchstoneinstitute.ca/learning/preresidencyprogram/&c=E,1,1pmrj0brjE1Jtncubl-
JoSDah37A3ms-
KR6XMa7AWTWe9dQvR_LhM7FKM0qLPbW_NCHZBUn6R0tVjUDhVPsJvfh8LE-D64PuqwplO4izE85kVVicROo2ibQ,&typo=1).

**Failure to meet or provide proof of any of the stated requirements may
result in an applicant’s file not being reviewed or removed from the Rank
Order List.**

* * *

# Return of Service

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

All candidates must meet the Ontario criteria of eligibility.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  * Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  * Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  * Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  * Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Language assessment document accepted:  **TOEFL-iBT

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum score of 93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section. The TOEFL iBT Home Edition will be accepted as a substitute for the TOEFL iBT

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:**  must have minimum score of 7.0 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Occupational English Test (OET)
-Medicine

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP)

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum score of 9.0 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Letter of language proficiency

  * Letter of language proficiency is a letter from your Dean attesting that your medical school program of instruction was completed solely in English or French
  * Alternatively, candidates can submit a printout from the [World Directory of Medical Schools](http://www.wdoms.org/) which clearly states that the language of instruction is English or French.

Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site. Please
review specific program descriptions for more information.

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

**Results must be provided by File Review Date**

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

**Results must be provided by File Review Date.**

  * **Note:  MCCQE part II passing score can be used to apply instead of the NAC passing score.**

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  650

Maximum :  850

  

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Abstract/Publications

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

**Must be a graduate from an acceptable medical school listed on the World
Directory of Medical Schools website at<http://www.wdoms.org/>.**

Order from your Registrar. Must be English original or certified translation.



Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

Order from your Registrar. Must be English original or certified translation.



* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: TBD  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All applications from CaRMS are
reviewed. In January, the candidates are pre-selected for interviews.
Interviews will be conducted virtually; We do not encourage applicants to
restrict their selection of electives to otolaryngology (this does not add
weight to application). There will be 3 interview stations. In one of the
virtual room, the candidates will meet the program director and the
Departmental Chair. Two other rooms will involve interviews with other faculty
members and the resident interview room.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

\- A clear interest in Otolaryngology

\- Commitment to altruism and kindness/respect for all team members

\- Hardworking and team player mentality

\- Publication and research in any field as an indication of academic
motivation

\- Reference letters from physicians with whom candidates had significant
clinical/research experience



## Program goals

The five-year residency program in Otolaryngology- Head & Neck Surgery at the
University of Ottawa provides the residents with a superb educational
experience in the Nation's Capital. The Department provides a supportive and
collaborative environment for residents to learn all aspects of this surgical
discipline. All aspects of OTL-HNS are well represented in the program from
both a curricular and practical experience. Innovative teaching techniques are
used to ensure residents gain early competence in all important areas of
practice. A hallmark of the program is early surgical exposure at junior years
allowing residents to quickly gain surgical skills which are the foundation of
the practice of OTL-HNS.

The program offers residents this educational experience in a
multidisciplinary environment with significant exposure to all CanMEDS roles.
Faculty and residents are very collegial and this results in a positive
learning environment. Research is a core element of the experience offering
all residents the ability to publish multiple high level papers through their
residency.

## Selection process goals

Ability to interact appropriately with patients and colleagues in a collegial
environment

Interest in Otolaryngology and develop into skilled surgeons and clinicians

Demonstrates a hardworking and teamwork  mentality

Demonstrates ability and enthusiasm to learn and able to adapt to the various
demands on an Otolaryngologist

Demonstrates the interest and ability for various research/QI opportunities

## File review process

Review team composition : Review team composition : Comprised of Faculty
members of the Department of Otolaryngology- Head and Neck Surgery, University
of Ottawa, including the Program Director, and Department Chair. Also
comprised of 2-3 senior residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Optional: Evaluate content, including research, publications, electives and awards   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Experience in ENT or related fields, clinical performance   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  The MCCQE1 and NAC OSCE are the only exams we evaluate.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Demonstration of interest outside of medicine   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Experience in medical and non-medical leadership (e.g outreach interest )   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic performance   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in discipline and program location, or other issues candidates want to highlight (Word Count: 650-850)   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Qualities as expressed in the CanMEDS competencies   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in participating in future research and QI projects   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Although an on-site elective will allow the applicant to know our program
better, it is not a prerequisite in the selection process.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high-quality patient care through working in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Behavior, attitude, ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Articulate and effective professional communication   
Health advocacy |  Contribute their expertise and influence as they work with communities or patient populations to improve health   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated experience in Otolaryngology care   
Interest in the program |  Training goals aligned with our medium sized training program in a medium sized city   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrates success in leadership opportunities   
Professionalism |  Respectful and ethical professional conduct to patients, colleagues and all allied health professionals   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component (evaluated via file review)   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * Residency in a dynamic environment with faculty engaged in medical education; Collegiality and a positive learning environmental are important to our program

  * Very busy clinical service at all sites of training with high surgical volumes

  * All aspects of Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery are represented including cochlear implantation, complex pediatric and adult airway management, an oncology robotics program, a busy base of skull program, multidisciplinary vertigo care

  * Protected academic half days with a strong curriculum 

  * Protected research time via optional research blocks 

  * Senior residents off call by the end of April in 4th year until the exam in the fall of 5th year (average 1 in 7 calls for PGY 2-4 years) 

  * Program fully complies with PARO guidelines for home call 

  * Robust outreach curriculum, including annual inner city/homeless outreach program and Nunavut outreach program (all residents get to travel to Nunavut for a week of clinics during their residency); International outreach opportunities are being explored.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The University of Ottawa training program in Otolaryngology-Head & Neck
Surgery is a five-year residency program. The program is fully accredited by
the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada and has been in
existence for over 25 years.

This Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery program at the University of Ottawa
consists of 1 year of Surgical Foundations training followed by 4 years of
specialty training at the University of Ottawa teaching hospitals.

The program’s first year consists of introductory rotations in Otolaryngology-
Head & Neck Surgery. During this initial year, residents rotate at all of our
Departmental sites. This allows residents to become familiar with all team
members and faculty. Our PGY1s complete 10 off service blocks in surgical and
nonsurgical disciplines related to our specialty and another 3 in ENT. These
rotations comply with the guidelines of the subspecialty committee in
Otolaryngology-Head &Neck Surgery at the Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Canada. These specialties include ICU, General Surgery, Pediatric
Surgery, Plastic Surgery, Neurosurgery, Anesthesiology, Thoracic, Emergency,
and recently added Palliative Care.

The 2nd year is fully on service with ENT, except for one senior rotation in
the ICU. This off service rotation allows the residents to develop independent
skills in managing sick patients as they must act as the senior call resident
for their unit. The remainder of PGY2 includes rotations at all major teaching
hospitals in the role of the junior ENT resident. The goal of the year is to
allow each resident to develop their basic knowledge and skills relating to
the specialty, including early operative exposure.

The 3rd year is marked by the beginning of subspecialty ENT rotations. During
this year, the residents also participate in a community rotation in the
location of their choosing. This allows our residents to see the full
potential of community practice in Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery in
Canada. The residents also participate in their first elective rotation.

In the 4th year, residents rotate in all otolaryngology subspecialties within
the University of Ottawa system. They gain a significant amount of surgical
independence throughout this year. The residents also have two more elective
rotations within the specialty. The 4th year is also marked as the year
residents take on the responsibilities of Chief resident. Near the end of the
fourth year of training, residents are removed from the nighttime call
schedule to allow them to have increased Royal College exam study time and
will resume call duties after their exam.

In the final year of residency training, the residents have three months of
training in Head & Neck Oncology, Rhinology and Otology-Neurotology and one
month in Facial Plastic surgery and pediatric otolaryngology. The Resident
will attend a half-day biweekly longitudinal clinic, where they act as MRP
(most responsible physician) for their patient cohort. This will allow the
trainee to have exposure to and experience of running a continuity clinic,
with a greater opportunity for follow-up of patients seen in initial
consultation.

University of Ottawa Otolaryngology residents train in two major academic
health science centers affiliated with the University of Ottawa. The Ottawa
Hospital is one of Canada's biggest academic health science centers, and all
adult patients are seen at one of two main campuses: the General campus and
the Civic campus. The residents also go to the Riverside campus, in which
daycare procedures are performed. The pediatric teaching center is the
Children’s Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO). All aspects of pediatric care
in Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery are performed at this site. During their
residency, residents will spend most of their time in one of the Ottawa
Hospital campuses and 8 months at CHEO. In addition, some rotations involve
days in the OR at various local community hospitals.

The residency program's academic program consists of a three-year spiral
subspecialty curriculum that covers all aspects of training in Otolaryngology-
Head & Neck Surgery. The academic half-day is on Friday afternoons, and the
sessions are faculty driven. Block examinations also highlight the program to
help residents assess their progress in knowledge acquisition and multiple
sessions on non-medical expert topics of importance to residents in
Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery. Half day time also includes local surgical
simulations/courses, annual practice oral examinations, protected research
time, among other academic activities.

Research is also a significant portion of the residency program. Up to three
blocks of research time is offered to all residents to enable them to
participate and complete projects. All projects are completed with guidance
from a departmental faculty member. Stipends are given to all residents for
presentations of projects at meetings.

Residents in the program participate in various outreach programs. The Nunavut
outreach program is a Departmental initiative in which services are offered to
the residents of Nunavut. Four annual trips to Iqaluit are planned. A resident
and 1-2 faculty members travel to Iqaluit for one week to treat patients
suffering from issues relating to the specialty. Finally, the department
conducts an annual head and neck cancer screening day at Ottawa homeless
shelters. Otolaryngology residents and staff travel to the shelters to perform
screening head and neck physical exams for this high-risk population with low
access to healthcare.

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

The training is carried out in four teaching hospitals:

\- Ottawa Hospital - Civic Campus

\- Ottawa Hospital - General Campus

\- Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario

\- Ottawa Hospital - Riverside Campus

\- Out-patient Facility- attending OR's from both the General and Civic Sites



* * *

# Additional Information

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26607?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26607