#  University of British Columbia - General Surgery - Vancouver  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 20, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 8

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Trevor Hamilton  
Dr. Rebecca Warburton  

Address UBC Department of Surgery  
DHCC 11125, 2775 Laurel Street  
Vancouver BC , British Columbia, V5Z 1M9  

Work  (604) 875-4111, ext. 23115

Websites of Interest [ General Surgery Residency Program
](https://surgery.med.ubc.ca/general_surgery_program/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Rebecca Warburton

Title: Program Co-Director

Email: rwarburton@providencehealth.bc.ca

  

Name: Dr. Trevor Hamilton

Title: Program Co-Director

Email: trevor.hamilton@vch.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Accredited program with follow-up by regular accreditation review

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three (3) letters of reference are required with two (2) from a General
Surgeon. Letters should be written by people who are familiar with you and
your work.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  500

Maximum :  1000

  

Please provide a brief narrative of your previous experiences, personal
interests, and education to date, including the factors that have motivated
you to pursue a career in general surgery. In addition to prioritizing the
pursuit of excellence in the clinical and technical aspects of surgery, the
UBC General Surgery Residency Program also views accomplishment in the non-
Medical Expert CanMEDS roles as essential in the preparation of inspired
surgeons and future leaders. **Finally, please outline why you feel the UBC
General Surgery Program fits with you and how you feel you could contribute to
the program.**

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

The UBC General Surgery Residency Program uses a structured process to review
applications to ensure an equitable evaluation for all applicants. File
reviewers are blinded to the applicants' name, gender and race throughout the
application review. Each application is blinded before review by a set of
independent reviewers. The personal letter is not blinded as the Selection
Committee feels this is a place where the applicant can decide what they want
to reveal about themselves to the reviewers.

Decisions made by the Selection Committee _are final and not open to appeal_.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 6, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: The interview day will start at 07:00 and
be completed by 17:00.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Approximately 56 applicants will be
offered interviews for the program. Each candidate will have a meeting with
the Program Co-Directors and two group interviews with faculty members and
residents.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

1\. Only applicants whose _complete_ applications are received will be
considered for interviews. The factors influencing selection include
excellence in academic standing, good letters of reference attesting to the
applicant's knowledge, clinical judgment, emotional stability and moral
character, and a personal letter demonstrating a clearly thought-out
commitment to general surgery. There are no quotas or preferences made based
on school of graduation or career goals.

2\. The applicants are also required to complete Team Dynamics Profile (TDP)
assessment. The link will be emailed to all applicants on December 2-4, 2024.
There are no right or wrong answers with this assessment and there is nothing
to do to prepare for it. The assessment should be completed**by December 12,
2024.**  

The TDP helps the program to understand an applicant's work style,
preferences, personality traits and behaviors which are critical to successful
performance in a role and as a team member. It is completed online and has no
time limit but generally takes 15 minutes to complete. There is no cost
associated for the applicants.

## Program goals

The education of our residents is the main goal of the UBC General Surgery
Residency Training Program. Faculty throughout the province participate in
teaching and research. Residents rotate through many various hospitals for
mandatory, selective and elective rotations. Residents are given graduated
responsibilities throughout their residency to reach the ultimate goal of
becoming a competent Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
General Surgeon.

The goal of our training program is to produce fully trained and competent
General Surgeons who are able to:

  1. Successfully pass the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons Specialty Examination in General Surgery.
  2. Able to practice at a consultant level in General Surgery.
  3. Have a superior knowledge of General Surgery and other related disciplines.
  4. Obtain exceptional clinical knowledge, operative and endoscopic skills.
  5. Obtain proficiency in General Surgery procedures.
  6. Become a medical expert and scholar. To act in a professional manner with excellent collaborator, health advocate and communicator skills.
  7. Exhibit excellent leadership skills.
  8. Have an excellent understanding of research methodology.

## Selection process goals

  1. Identify applicants' interest in General Surgery, and those who will develop into exceptional surgeon.
  2. Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability to interact appropriately with patients, colleagues, and healthcare team members alike.
  3. Identify applicants who have demonstrated attributes highlighted in the CanMEDS roles.
  4. Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability and enthusiasm to learn and are able to adapt to the various demands of residency training.
  5. Identify applicants who have demonstrated understanding of research methodology.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our Selection Committee is composed of two Program
Co-Directors, Chair of Selection Committee, 10-15 faculty (including faculty
at distributed sites), 10-15 residents and program administrators.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Research, publications, electives, extra-curricular, leadership   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Dedication to General Surgery, clinical evaluations   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering (medical and non medical), mentoring   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Holding office in a student government, club or organization   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Interpersonal and teamwork skills   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Dedication to General Surgery, compelling reasons for UBC   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Work ethic, performance, interpersonal skills, interest in General Surgery   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Completed projects, grants received, interest in future research projects   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance and achievements   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high-quality patient care through working in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Behavior, attitude, ability to work well and build rapport with others   
Communication skills |  Clear and effective communication   
Health advocacy |  Ability to understand needs and speak on behalf of patients or communities   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated interest and ability in General Surgery   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest in the program   
Leadership skills |  Ability to inspire, lead and make an impact   
Professionalism |  Correspondence with staff, behavior during interview   
Scholarly activities |  Not applicable   
Other interview component(s) |  Analytical thinking, problem solving, self-awareness, pro-activity   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The UBC General Surgery Residency Program recognizes that all of its incoming
residents bring outstanding experiences and skills, and unique perspectives to
their training. Our goal is to ensure that these unique experiences and
perspectives remain at the core of surgical training and form the basis of
successful surgical careers. The highlight and most important factor in the
success of our program is the talent and enthusiasm of our residents. The
training program and established curricula strive to maximize the potential of
our surgical residents. We strive to maximize resident involvement at all
levels including Town Hall meetings, an annual Resident Retreat and Resident
Research Day, and involvement in various committees such as:

  * Residency Program Committee
  * Competence Committee
  * Curriculum Committee
  * Wellness and Social Committee
  * Selection Committee.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Clinical Rotations**

The General Surgery Residency Program has access to busy and high acuity
surgical services at hospitals across British Columbia. A truly distributed
program, our residents have a province wide presence and must rotate through
rotations around the province. All residents rotate on specialty services such
as trauma, hepatobiliary, transplant, surgical oncology, and colorectal
surgery as well as on busy surgical services at community hospitals across the
length and breadth of British Columbia with a diverse and complex case mix.
Additionally, the program has a formal endoscopy rotation to ensure residents
are competent in endoscopic procedures. This training environment makes
clinical and technical excellence a fundamental expectation of all of our
surgical graduates.

**Innovative Rotations  and Longitudinal Experiences**

In addition to high-volume and high acuity surgical rotations throughout all
years of training, the program has also created a series of innovative
rotations and longitudinal experiences which span the entire duration of
training. The PGY1 begins with a clinical and administrative orientation to
life as resident, followed by the Basic Surgical Techniques (BST) course,
where new residents are taught anatomy, open and laparoscopic skills, in an
interactive mix of classroom, simulation and lab sessions through the junior
Academic Half Day Process. The PGY1 CRASH Course is a four-week rotation
through the Surgical Foundations Program which brings mid first-year residents
back to the classroom and skills lab to explore issues in trauma
resuscitation, critical care, teaching, leadership, evidence-based practice,
and technical skills. The course has been designed to equip junior residents
with the knowledge, skill, and confidence to have a highly successful
residency. PGY2s have a research block to write proposals and to prepare
funding applications for research years, which is predominantly through the
Clinical Investigator Program. PGY2s also get a special Innovation Week, where
they are protected from clinical pressures to work on research and innovation
in surgery.

In the final years of the program, residents participate in the Expert Series,
an advanced surgical curriculum for senior residents, as well as in the
definitive surgical trauma care DSTC course. The PGY4s participate in the RISE
at the beginning of the year. They are protected from clinical duties to work
on leadership and career mentorship in surgery. Many of the educational
initiatives in the program, such as endoscopy and scholarly research work have
a longitudinal component with specific expectations at each stage of training.

**Academic Half Day**

The academic half day, which is the foundation of our curriculum, is based on
a two year cycle of subject blocks. Within each block residents will
participate in small and large group case based sessions, scientific sessions,
and a simulation program which will closely parallel the sequence of clinical
topics covered in the half days. All residents have simulator access at the
VGH Simulation Centre/Jack Bell Lab and all academic blocks incorporate low
and high fidelity simulator training to promote development of specific
technical and decision making skills.

PGY1-2

An independent academic half day curriculum has been designed for the junior
residents. This curriculum focuses on completion of a major surgical textbook
and mastery of fundamental open and laparoscopic skills, and includes time for
research and professional development.

PGY3-5

Academic symposium curriculum has been designed for the senior residents. This
curriculum includes:

  1. Eight core areas (12-week block per area) as per the RCPSC educational objectives
  2. Weekly readings (expert chapters, key journal articles, web videos, etc.), assignments and quizzes from SCORE online resources
  3. Weekly protected AHD time
  4. Full day academic symposium for each core area.

* * *

# Training Sites

Vancouver General Hospital

St. Paul's Hospital, Vancouver

BC Children's Hospital, Vancouver

UBC Hospital, Vancouver

BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver

Mount St. Joseph Hospital, Vancouver

Lion's Gate Hospital, North Vancouver

Richmond Hospital

qathet General Hospital, Powell River

Royal Columbian Hospital, New Westminster

Burnaby General Hospital

Surrey Memorial Hospital

Langley Memorial Hospital

Abbotsford Regional Hospital & Cancer Centre

Chilliwack General Hospital

Victoria General Hospital, Royal Jubilee Hospital

Nanaimo Regional General Hospital

North Island Hospital, Campbell River

East Kootney Regional Hospital, Cranbrook

Kelowna General Hospital

Royal Inland Hospital, Kamloops

Shuswap Lake General Hospital, Salmon Arm

Vernon Jubilee Hospital

Kootenay Boundary Regional Hospital, Trail

Penticton Regional General Hospital

University Hospital of Northern BC, Prince George

GR Baker Memorial Hospital, Quesnel

Mills Memorial Hospital, Terrace

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27125?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27125