#  McGill University - Public Health and Preventive Medicine - Montreal  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Regular Stream for All  

##  Last approved on September 06, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. David Kaiser  

Address School of Population and Global Health  
2001 ave. McGill College  
Suite 1200  
Montreal, Quebec, H3A 1G1  

Work  514.398.4229

Work

Websites of Interest [ PH&PM; training Program ](http://www.mcgill.ca/epi-
biostat-occh/academic-programs/grad/public-health-and-preventive-medicine-r)  
[ Montreal Public Health Department ](https://ccsmtlpro.ca/drsp)  
[ McGill Post-Graduate Medical Education Admissons
](http://www.mcgill.ca/pgme/admissions)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Deirdre Lavery

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: residency.phpm@mcgill.ca

Phone: 514-398-4229

  

Name: David Kaiser

Title: Program Director

Email: david.kaiser@mcgill.ca

  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP must be submitted with each application.  
EITHER:

  * A copy of Canadian Birth Certificate or a copy of Certificate of Canadian Citizenship

OR

  * A copy of Permanent Resident Card (copy of both sides of the card) OR a copy of an IMM 5292, IMM 1000, IMM 5688;   
NB: the Permanent Resident card can be expired.

OR

  * A copy of Citizenship Card (copy of both sides of the card)

P.S: the passport is not an acceptable proof of citizenship.

Each year, all candidates applying in a CaRMS match must provide proof of
valid current citizenship or permanent resident status. As of the 2021 R-1
match cycle, CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate
the citizenship/legal status verification, which is usually completed by
Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) offices.

if an applicant has had their citizenship/legal status documentation verified
by any of the following organizations for the current R-1 match, the applicant
will not be required to assign a proof of citizenship/PR document (as pictured
in the screenshot below).

  * Medical Council of Canada ([MCC](https://mcc.ca/))
  * British Columbia's Clinical Assessment Program ([BC-CAP](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/clinical-assessment/))
  * Bureau de cooperation interuniversitaire ([BCI](https://www.bci-qc.ca/en/))
  * Alberta International Medical Graduate Program ([AIMG](https://www.aimg.ca/))

For further information, please check the following link on CaRMS:
[https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-
citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-)

Examinations

Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the MCCQE Part I exam, please include the statement of
results and supplemental information report in your application.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the NAC exam, please include the statement of results and
supplemental information report in your application. The MCCQE Part II or
Certificate of Registration of the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada
(LMCC) is accepted in place of the NAC Examination.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required; these should be forwarded directly
from the referees to the CaRMS Office. It is preferable that at least one of
the letters be from a specialist physician in Public Health and Preventive
Medicine (PH&PM) or a practitioner/academic in population or public health.
Referees should have worked recently with the applicant, ideally in the
previous five (5) years. In addition to the general instructions contained in
the CaRMS letter of reference request, we are interested in hearing more about
the applicant's: particular strengths relevant to public health practice
(communication, interpersonal skills, collaborative practices and teamwork)
and how they are applied in situations of complexity and uncertainty; their
vision of population health; and their engagement with health advocacy and
social justice.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

A personal letter (maximum 1000 words) is required. Candidates should outline
their reasons for wishing to pursue a career in PH&PM. They should describe
what personal qualities make them suitable for a career in PH&PM and outline
what they have done to foster experience and interest in this field. They
should also be able to articulate an understanding of PH&PM practice in Canada
as well as how our specialty differs from other medical disciplines including
Family Medicine with a community-oriented practice, and discuss the pros and
cons of a career in PH&PM.

Custom Résumé / CV

No longer than 3 pages.

Conditionally required

Graduate Transcript (Master/PhD Degree)

Required if applicable - all university level transcripts must be provided

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

Required if applicable - all university level transcripts must be provided

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

Additional required IMG documents

Lettre de reconnaissance de l'équivalence du diplôme MD

Please provide the results of the exams that permitted you to have your
medical degree recognized and approved by the CMQ.

Graduates with the diploma of doctor of osteopathy awarded by a school of
osteopathic medicine situated in the United States providing that the school
is accredited by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the
American Osteopathic Association do not have to obtain the recognition of the
equivalence of the medical diploma by the CMQ. These graduates do not require
the MCCQE Part I, the National Assessment Collaboration (NAC), or the
Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada (LMCC) in order to apply.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

The program director, with the assistance of members of the Selection
Committee, will conduct a preliminary review of complete applications.
Candidates who satisfy the CaRMS requirements (e.g., proof of citizenship)
will be considered for an interview. Interviews will be offered to candidates
on the basis of the following criteria:

  * Demonstrated interest in Public Health and Preventive Medicine, including at least one elective or involvement in research, field experience, or graduate-level coursework;
  * Diversity of professional and personal experiences relevant to the domain of PHPM;
  * Demonstrated foundation in both English and French and/or an explicit plan on how this will be acquired;
  * Academic performance sufficient for admission to master's level training in the Department of Epidemiology Biostatistics and Occupational Health at McGill University. Note that the minimum CGPA to be considered for admission to graduate studies at McGill is 3.4/4.0.

Candidates wishing to pursue Family Medicine (CFPC) are encouraged to consult
the selection criteria for the Family Medicine program at McGill University.

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held during the CaRMS
interview period from January 18  to February 9, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Selected candidates will be
interviewed through a series of short, structured interview stations with
PH&PM faculty members and residents. At least one question will be asked in
French during one of the interview stations. The interview will be of a total
duration of between 60-75 minutes. Candidates are provided ample opportunity
to ask questions about the program.  
  
A virtual social activity is organized during the interview period. Candidates
will have the opportunity to meet with residents in an informal setting. This
activity is not mandatory and is not part of the evaluation process.  
  
N.B.: Candidates interested in pursuing the Family Medicine (CFPC) stream will
not be interviewed separately by the Department of Family Medicine.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Criteria evaluated at the time of the interview include:

  * Curiosity and interest in the McGill PHPM program;
  * Capacity to articulate a vision of PHPM practice;
  * Demonstrated leadership in complex, interdisciplinary and interprofessional environments;
  * Demonstrated ability to collaborate in team settings;
  * Ability to communicate effectively in a variety of contexts.

N.B. If not already proficient in French, candidates should have a clear plan
as to how to learn and/or improve upon their French language skills. Public
health units in Quebec function entirely in French, therefore, a working
knowledge of the language (speaking and reading) is necessary to thrive in
this program.

The accessibility of Training Pathway 2, which includes CCFP Certification
(see below), is conditional upon acceptance by the Family Medicine Program.

## Program goals

Program goals

Our program aims to train future leaders in public health practice in Quebec,
Canada, and internationally. We strive to provide our residents with a
comprehensive knowledge of the science and art of Public Health and Preventive
Medicine practice, and the skills to apply this knowledge to a broad range of
population health issues and contexts.

More specifically, our aim is for residents to become competent in the
essential domains of public health and preventive medicine, including:

  * population health assessment
  * health protection
  * disease prevention
  * health promotion
  * public policy development
  * research and knowledge translation
  * evidence-informed public health & preventive medicine practice.

By the end of the residency program, our residents will have received training
enabling them to assume leadership roles in a diversity of settings, including
as medical officers of health or as consultants in public health organizations
locally, provincially, nationally, or internationally. Moreover, we aim to
train residents who will be able to work effectively within multidisciplinary
teams and engage with a variety of community and institutional stakeholders.

Strengths of our program include:

  * A strong clinical foundation, including the possibility of completing Family Medicine (CFPC) training;
  * World-class training in epidemiology and biostatistics;
  * A well-developed public health infrastructure unique in Canada;
  * A great diversity of training sites at the regional and provincial levels, including: Direction regionale de sante publique de Montreal (Montreal Public Health); Institut national de sante publique du Quebec (Quebec Public Health Institute); Institut national d'excellence en sante et en services sociaux (Quebec Institute for Clinical Excellences); Laboratoire de sante publique du Quebec (Quebec Public Health Laboratory); Ministere de la sante et des services sociaux (Ministry of Health); public health units in peri-urban and rural settings, as well as in indigenous communities.

Finally, the opportunity to become proficient in both English and French by
the completion of training, provides considerable opportunities both
nationally and internationally.

## Selection process goals

We aim to recruit physicians with:

  * Demonstrated interest in the specialty of Public Health & Preventive Medicine;
  * Interest and aptitude to become leaders and agents of change in the field of Public Health & Preventive Medicine;
  * Demonstrated academic excellence, as well as research skills;
  * Excellent interpersonal skills and ability to communicate and collaborate effectively, including in conditions of complexity and uncertainty;
  * An interest and demonstrated aptitude for thriving in a highly autonomous and highly collaborative environment;
  * Demonstrated interest in teaching;
  * The ability to work in a French-language environment or show a strong interest in developing and perfecting their proficiency in French.

## File review process

Review team composition : CaRMS files are reviewed by two individuals selected
from among members of the Residency Program Committee, teaching faculty, and
residents. All files are subsequently reviewed by the Program Director.  
  

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Mandatory, no longer than 3 pages: content, including research, extra-curriculars and electives.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Demonstrated interest in PHPM by undertaking an elective in an area of practice relevant to PHPM   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Academic performance   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Demonstrated interest in PH&PM; (student leadership, research, field experience, etc.); leadership.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership positions in student or professional organizations; or other relevant settings.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic performance.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Understanding of PH&PM; and motivation to pursuing a career in PH&PM; familiarity with the program.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Academic abilities, interpersonal skills, professionalism and commitment to PH&PM.;  
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in pursuing graduate coursework and improving or maintaining research abilities.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance.   
Other file component(s) |  FOR CANDIDATES CONSIDERING THE FAMILY MEDICINE (CFPC) STREAM: meet the Family Medicine program's selection criteria.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We believe that an elective in PH&PM of a minimum of three consecutive weeks
is required for candidates to be able to articulate their understanding of the
field. Other experiences related to the practice of PH&PM such as: other
clinical electives that incorporate a population and public health
perspective; work and research experiences; and field work involving
community-based health-care organizations may also satisfy this requirement.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work well with others; ability to manage interpersonal issues in a team.   
Collegiality |  Not specifically evaluated during the interview.   
Communication skills |  Ability to communicate key information effectively in a variety of settings and contexts.   
Health advocacy |  Capacity to articulate a vision and a population health approach to tackling health inequalities and social justice.   
Interest in the discipline |  Capacity to articulate a vision of PHPM practice.   
Interest in the program |  Familiarity with the program; specific reasons for selecting the McGill program.   
Leadership skills |  Leadership in complex, interdisciplinary, and inter-professional environments; capacity to engage with uncertainty.   
Professionalism |  Openness to feedback, capacity for autonomy, stress management, honesty, and commitment.   
Scholarly activities |  Not specifically evaluated during the interview.   
Other interview component(s) |  If not already proficient in French, the candidate should have a clear plan as to how to improve upon/learn French. Public health units in Quebec function entirely in French, therefore, a working knowledge of the language (speaking and reading) is absolutely necessary to thrive in this program. At least one question will be asked in French.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  Lack of demonstrated interest in our specialty  
Insufficient French and/or English language proficiency.  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Royal College [Competence by
Design](https://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e)
initiative is due to be implemented in our specialty in 2025. Preparations are
well underway for using this new framework, including integrating Entrustable
Professional Activities (EPAs) into the objectives of training for our
rotations.

**Program overview**

Our residency program is working to train public health and preventive
medicine specialists who will go out into the world as ambassadors of a public
health that is grounded in service, committed to eliminating injustice,
amplifying diversity and inclusivity, leading the way in acknowledging
humanity’s place in the universe, transforming their own lives, those of their
colleagues and partners, and the populations that they serve.

We are living in an era of rapid planetary change, characterized by multiple
and intersecting crises – climate breakdown, ecosystem destruction, rampant
inequalities, social polarization and conflict. In the face of an existential
threat, we believe that humanity must engage in a social and ecological
transition, working towards a future where all individuals and communities
have the opportunity to thrive within the physical and biological limits of
the planet.

The social and ecological transition involves transforming societal systems
and redefining our relationship to other humans, to nature and to the
environment. This, in turn, invites us to transform the way that we
conceptualize and operationalize residency training in public health and
preventive medicine: integrating diverse voices, including those of citizens
and community partners; putting the health and wellbeing of our residents and
staff at the center of our decision-making; rethinking our educational
curriculum and exposing residents to a greater diversity of content,
especially in the social sciences; strengthening, expanding, and deepening
relationships with other teaching programs; developing and consolidating links
between theory and practice, between sciences and their application to
improving population health and reducing health inequalities.

Our program has chosen to apply a trauma-informed approach to this process
because we recognize that trauma is ubiquitous and conditions our capacity for
transformative change, as individuals and collectively. A trauma-informed
approach to our residency program is, thus, essential to allowing our
residents and staff to be well and reach their full potential, to exert
positive leadership in a diversity of learning and working environments, and
to facilitate engagement of diverse voices and perspectives.

The work that we have begun aims to apply trauma-informed principles to all
aspects of our residency program. We will push well beyond interactions with
patients and the population, to address the medical learning environment,
admissions processes, mentorship, professional development, and program
structure. We believe that we are on the cutting edge of an approach that will
become the norm for residency training in Quebec, across Canada, and beyond.

As we prepare for transition to Competence by Design (CBD) in July 2025, we
strongly believe that the consolidation of our strategic plan is essential to
getting the best out of CBD and mitigating the known negative impacts on staff
and residents. The scope of our project, however, stretches beyond the short-
term – from here to our program’s transition to CBD – to the intergenerational
– as the ripple effects of residency training reach out beyond our years of
service, through our colleagues and our communities.

Our vision is that residents and staff of our program are recognized agents of
change, collaborating to co-create and nourish a healthy teaching environment,
engaging with the populations they serve, and transforming public health
practice.

This vision is supported by three strategic orientations:

  1. Generating wellbeing for our residents and staff through trauma-informed medical education.
  2. Developing our partnerships and collaborations with the goal of transforming training and practice
  3. Managing change in moving from an opportunity-based mode to planned action

Our strategic plan is anchored in the values of the Faculty of Medicine and
Health Sciences: compassion; integrity and honesty; respect and collaboration;
openness; connectedness to our communities; altruism.

Residents and staff identified critical factors for the success of our plan –
engagement, openness and curiosity, flexibility and room for experimentation,
valuing of personal and professional identities – as well as two guiding
principles for the development and implementation of our strategic plan:

  * Respect: to foster a climate of confidence, engagement and collaboration through reciprocity
  * Excellence: people as the foundation of our program, recognizing that they are agents of change.

We will be documenting the impacts of our plan through a participatory action
research approach. Our first strategic plan represents an important milestone
for our program, building upon the wisdom and learning of the past, firmly
anchored in the realities of the present, and committed to working towards a
healthier and more just future for all.

**Usual Course of Training**

The residency training year runs from July to June and is divided into 13
periods lasting 4 weeks.

The program consists of training in three broad phases – patient care in
clinical settings, academic (Master’s) training, and rotations in public
health practice – with some flexibility in the amount of time devoted to each,
and the possibility of receiving credit for prior work in these domains.

Depending on the time devoted to each of the training phases, there are three
potential training pathways (see below). Residents can choose any of these
pathways based on their past experience and long-term career goals. Residents
who choose Option 3 will have the opportunity to develop competencies in a
specific key area (e.g., health protection, health promotion, environmental
health, etc.) or may choose to consolidate core public health competencies
with a placement in a variety of urban and non-urban settings.

**Training pathways** |  **PGY 1** |  **PGY 2** |  **PGY 3** |  **PGY 4** |  **PGY 5**  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
**Option 1: Standard PHPM Training** |  Basic Clinical Training |  MSc Epidemiology |  MSc Epidemiology |  Core PH&PM rotations |  Core PH&PM rotations  
**Option 2: CCFP Certification** |  Family Medicine |  Family Medicine |  MSc Intensive Program |  Core PH&PM rotations |  Core PH&PM rotations  
**Option 3: Integrated Practicum** |  Basic Clinical Training |  MSc Intensive Program |  Core PH&PM rotations |  Core PH&PM rotations |  Concentration year  
  




**Phase 1** : Patient Care/Clinical Training phase (1 or 2 years).

All residents do at least one full year of clinical training.

Our residents can choose from two trajectories during Phase 1:

  1. 1 year of Basic Clinical Training. This involves 6 months of Family Medicine rotations and 6 months of electives, including several periods of introduction to public health practice. Electives are chosen by the resident in consultation with a PHPM program advisor. Many electives are available in the McGill University system, including Addictions, Adolescent Medicine, HIV/ STI & Infectious Diseases, Maternal & Child Health, Occupational Health, Toxicology and Tropical Medicine. Residents who choose this option will be based at training sites in Montreal.

  2. 2 years to complete training in Family Medicine. There are two elective blocks available in this option and they must be in domains pertinent to public health practice and chosen in consultation with the PHPM program advisor. Residents who choose this option are expected to successfully complete CCFP certification. One position is available at a Montreal-area teaching unit (GMFU) and one position is available at GMFU Gatineau. Resident preferences with regards to the training site will be taken into consideration, however assignment of the specific Family Medicine teaching site will be dependent on availability. If impossible to meet all preferences, residents will be randomly assigned to available sites.

N.B. PH&PM specialists practicing in Quebec can maintain a clinical practice
without having certification in family medicine.

**Phase 2** : MSc (Epidemiology) (1 or 2 years).

The program's academic training is completed in the Department of
Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Occupational Health at McGill University. The
Master's degree in Epidemiology, with thesis, has a strong emphasis on
quantitative methods. Residents will find themselves well-served by this solid
foundation in epidemiological and biostatistical methods in their future
practice as public health specialists.

During the academic phase, our residents again have two choices:

  1. MSc Epidemiology, regular program (2 years). This program involves 1 year of courses and 1 year of research leading to a thesis. The thesis project and supervisor must be identified during the second term of the first year of the MSc.
  2. MSc Epidemiology, intensive program (15 months). This program involves completing coursework and the thesis project simultaneously. This requires that a thesis project and supervisor be identified before applying for the program. ([MSc Program](https://www.mcgill.ca/epi-biostat-occh/academic-programs/grad/epidemiology/requirements)). The intensive Master’s program is usually completed in 15 training periods meaning that residents who choose this option will have 2 less elective periods during Phase 3.

N.B. Should a resident wish to obtain [CCFP](http://www.cfpc.ca/)
certification as part of McGill's training program in PH&PM, they must
undertake the Intensive MSc option (unless they have previous graduate-level
training in epidemiology and/or public health).

A list of our faculty supervisors and their research interests can be found
here: <https://www.mcgill.ca/epi-biostat-occh/people>

Tuition fees are waived for residents for the first three semesters of full-
time study for students registered in thesis programs. Residents completing
the Master's in the intensive program are not subject to tuition fees and
those who opt for the two-year master's program pay only the additional
session fees for their final semester of study. Residents registered in non-
thesis programs or taking courses as special students pay full tuition.

N.B. Residents with prior graduate-level training in epidemiology or public
health may be able to have this portion of their residency training partially
or fully credited. Requests for academic credit are reviewed by an ad hoc
residency program committee.

**Phase 3:**  Field Placements in Public Health & Preventive Medicine (2 or 3
years, plus a few short rotations in the early years).

The time spent in this phase will vary depending on time spent in previous
phases. Our program provides a lot of flexibility to tailor phase 3 training
to residents’ previous experiences, specific interests, and career goals.
During the first year of this phase, residents acquire basic competencies in
the various domains of public health. The second year is dedicated to
developing leadership experience and integrating multiple functions and roles.
Residents who choose to complete 3 years of this phase (Option 3) will have
the opportunity to deepen selected competencies and skills during their R5
year.

 Senior rotations:

  * Surveillance (2 periods): Population health assessment; characteristics of surveillance systems; development of indicators.
  * Infectious diseases (2-3 periods): Notifiable diseases, case and contact tracing; outbreak investigation; vaccine-preventable diseases; harm reduction and overdose prevention.
  * Indigenous Health (2 periods): Introduction to principles of public health practice with indigenous people and communities. Often includes one period of patient care in a rural location followed by one period of applied PH&PM practice in a public health setting.
  * Environmental health (2-3 periods): Toxicology; notifiable diseases; risk evaluation and management; cluster investigation; built environment; injury prevention.
  * Occupational health (2 periods): Workplace prevention; surveillance of occupational diseases.
  * Health promotion & disease prevention (2-3 periods): Early childhood development and school health; health equity and social justice; mental health and healthy lifestyles.
  * Management and planning (2-3 periods): Operational and strategic planning; continuous quality improvement; collaborative practices.
  * Integration (6 periods): Two 3-month blocks that are tailored to each residents’ strengths and interests. Often completed in rural or peri-urban settings.
  * Electives (3-5 periods)

Concentration year

Some learning outcomes are best achieved or consolidated through periods of
more focused, repeated and directed practice. Trainees who spent only one year
in each of the first two phases may use their R5 year to further consolidate
specific competencies or promote their generalist skills within specific
settings, thus enhancing their career aims. This concentration year may be
undertaken in a variety of local and regional settings, including public
health departments in rural settings, INSPQ, INESS, PHAC, etc. For trainees
intending to pursue a career in international public health, training may be
possible with WHO or other international agencies abroad.

**Training sites**

The PH&PM Residency Training Program uses the academic teaching units of
McGill University and the Montreal Public Health department to train highly
qualified and innovative PH&PM specialists. The considerable number of faculty
members at the Public Health Department and at the University allow for a very
low resident-to-faculty ratio, which provides for individualized resident
support. The Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health
has a tradition of excellence in teaching at the graduate level and is home to
over 50 dynamic and active faculty members.

Phase 3 rotations are primarily based at Montreal Public Health (principal
teaching site: (<https://santemontreal.qc.ca/professionnels/drsp/>). With an
urban population of 1.8 million, the Montreal health region presents all of
the opportunities and challenges of modern public health practice: a diverse
and constantly changing population, including racialized, ethnic and cultural
communities, urban indigenous populations and undocumented migrants;
widespread environmental exposures, including noise, air pollution, and
extreme heat; persistent health inequalities and overlapping public health
crises, including homelessness, unaffordable housing, overdoses, poverty and
food insecurity; rapidly evolving built environment, with well-developed
active transport infrastructure; significant and diverse academic and research
capacity; well-developed infrastructure of community organisations, citizen
movements, and intersectoral partnerships.

Field placements are also available in all of Quebec's Regional Public Health
Units. Our program has developed strong links with several regions, including
Laval, Montérégie, Abitibi-Témiscamingue and Outaouais, as well as the Cree
Territory in James Bay and the Nunavik region.

International and out-of-province electives which are approved by the McGill
Postgraduate Office and by the Collège des médecins du Québec can be arranged.
For example, residents may participate as Affiliates in the Canadian Field
Epidemiology Program which is usually done as part of core training in
infectious diseases. These elective experiences are limited to a total of
three months during training in order to be remunerated.

**Academic curriculum**

All residents (PGY1-5) are required to attend weekly academic half-day
sessions. Academic half-days include teaching sessions, resident-led seminars,
case discussions and journal clubs. Residents in PGY 2-4 participate in
directed reading sessions in environmental and occupational health and in
health promotion and disease prevention. During the PGY4-5 years, residents
are also required to participate in weekly seminars offered by the Department
of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health and clinical rounds at
Montreal Public Health. Also, during this phase, residents are encouraged to
participate in weekly lunchtime sessions coordinated by the University of
Sherbrooke and held at a nearby university campus. During the PGY5 year,
residents are supported in their preparation for the RCPSC exams by
participating in oral exam simulation sessions between January and April.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Training sites**

The PH&PM Residency Training Program uses the academic teaching units of
McGill University and the Montreal Public Health department to train highly
qualified and innovative PH&PM specialists. The considerable number of faculty
members at the Public Health Department and at the University allow for a very
low resident-to-faculty ratio, which provides for individualized resident
support. The Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health
has a tradition of excellence in teaching at the graduate level and is home to
over 50 dynamic and active faculty members.

Phase 3 rotations are primarily based at Montreal Public Health (principal
teaching site: (<https://santemontreal.qc.ca/professionnels/drsp/>). With an
urban population of 1.8 million, the Montreal health region presents all of
the opportunities and challenges of modern public health practice: a diverse
and constantly changing population, including racialized, ethnic and cultural
communities, urban indigenous populations and undocumented migrants;
widespread environmental exposures, including noise, air pollution, and
extreme heat; persistent health inequalities and overlapping public health
crises, including homelessness, unaffordable housing, overdoses, poverty and
food insecurity; rapidly evolving built environment, with well-developed
active transport infrastructure; significant and diverse academic and research
capacity; well-developed infrastructure of community organisations, citizen
movements, and intersectoral partnerships.

Field placements are also available in all of Quebec's Regional Public Health
Units. Our program has developed strong links with several regions, including
Laval, Montérégie, Abitibi-Témiscamingue and Outaouais, as well as the Cree
Territory in James Bay and the Nunavik region.

International and out-of-province electives which are approved by the McGill
Postgraduate Office and by the Collège des médecins du Québec can be arranged.
For example, residents may participate as Affiliates in the Canadian Field
Epidemiology Program which is usually done as part of core training in
infectious diseases. These elective experiences are limited to a total of
three months during training in order to be remunerated.

* * *

# Additional Information

The PH&PM Residency Training Program uses the academic teaching units of
McGill University and the Montreal Public Health department to train highly
qualified and innovative PH&PM specialists. The considerable number of faculty
members at the Public Health Department and at the University allow for a very
low resident-to-faculty ratio, which provides for individualized resident
support. The Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health
has a tradition of excellence in teaching at the graduate level and is home to
over 50 dynamic and active faculty members.

Funding is available for conferences from both the program and in PGY 4 and 5
from the Montreal Public Health department. Transportation and accommodations
are arranged for residents rotating at rural sites.

Malpractice insurance for medical residents in Quebec is included in the FMRQ
membership dues. For information on the collective agreement between the
Fédération des médecins résidents du Québec (FMRQ), and the Ministry of Health
and Social Services (MSSS), visit the FMRQ website
<https://fmrq.qc.ca/entente-collective/assurances-professionnelles/assurance-
responsabilite-professionnelle/>



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27010?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27010