#  University of Manitoba - Diagnostic Radiology - Winnipeg  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 6

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Surinder Dhaliwal  
Dr. Tommy Ting  

Address Diagnostic Radiology  
Health Sciences Centre  
AE503 – 671 William Ave.  
Winnipeg MB , Manitoba, R3E 0Z2  

Work  (204) 787-7677

Work

Websites of Interest [ University of Manitoba Department of Radiology
](http://umanitoba.ca/faculties/medicine/units/radiology/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Tommy Ting

Title: Program Director

  

Name: Surinder Dhaliwal

Title: Associate Program Director

  

Name: Devin Slippert

Title: Program Administrator

Email: SH-Diagnostic.Radiology@hsc.mb.ca

Phone: (204) 787-7677

  

* * *

# Important Information

The MANDATORY **Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation**  for all incoming
residents, will be held on **  Thursday, June 26, 2025.**

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

English Language

You are required to fulfill ALL of the most current Provincial Criteria for
Canadian Medical Graduates for Manitoba

The criteria can be found at:  <https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required from clinical preceptors and/or
mentors.

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

The letter should outline past background interests and accomplishments and
include reasons for the choice of Diagnostic Radiology as the chosen career
specialty as well as what aspects of our program appeal the most to the
candidate.

Optional - will be reviewed

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

The documents that have been submitted will be reviewed by our committee, and
interview invitations will be sent after review of all applicants' files.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025

Details regarding interview dates:

Interviews dates will be in **January 21, 22, and 23rd,  2025**

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Only the top-ranked candidates will
be invited to an interview.  
  
All selected candidates will be interviewed by the Diagnostic Radiology
Selection Committee. This will consist of two separate interviews. Interviews
are mandatory. Every attempt will be made to coordinate the two interviews to
accommodate the candidates' schedule.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Applicants are rated on a point scale in each of the following areas:

    * interview

    * personal letter and reference letters

    * medical school grades and any standardized examinations written during medical school 

    * Previous electives in radiology and scholarly activity.

    * Research interests and experience

## Program goals

The mission of this program is to successfully prepare residents personally
and professionally for independent practice, and to put them on the path to
achieve their career goals.

This will be accomplished by rotating residents through several years of
various radiology rotations, with increasing levels of responsibility, and
providing mentorship at the various stages of training.

In addition, a component of the residency program will include after hours
(on-call) work. The residents will be prepared for their on-call
responsibilities using a graduated call system, and using a buddy call system,
to ensure they are adequately prepared.

Our fellowship trained staff will also provide a comprehensive educational
curriculum for the residents consisting of interactive small group sessions,
and didactic lectures to ensure the wide breadth of radiology curriculum is
covered.

The University of Manitoba is committed to the social justice principles of
equity, access & participation and to promoting opportunities for systemically
marginalized groups who have been excluded from full participation at the
University and the larger community including Indigenous, Black, racially
marginalized Peoples, persons with disabilities and those who identify as
2SLGBTQIA+ (Two Spirit, lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, questioning, intersex,
asexual and other diverse sexual identities) and women.

## Selection process goals

In order to ensure that our residents are successfully prepared for
independent practice, both personally and professionally, we believe the
following skills and attributes will be highly sought after in the successful
residency candidate;

  * Hard working
  * Conscientious
  * Self-Motivated
  * Respectful
  * Collaborative
  * Organized
  * Insightful
  * Well-Rounded
  * Good Communication (Skills)
  * Patience
  * Compassion
  * Leadership (Skills)
  * Time Management (Skills)

## File review process

Review team composition : The team will consist of the Diagnostic Radiology
Residency Program Director, Associate Program Director, a selection of
academic radiology staff, current radiology residents, and the Program
Administrator.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Academic and work experience   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Impression of medical/radiology knowledge   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  See examinations & additional documents   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteer work and Interests   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Projects initiated and completed. Various roles in groups   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Extent of involvement in medical curriculum and activities   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Motivation for radiology and professional goals   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Professionalism and medical knowledge   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Summary of academic projects and experiences   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Undergraduate field of study and grades   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Examples of past initiatives working with other people and health care professionals.   
Collegiality |  Feedback you have been given about how well you work with other health care team members   
Communication skills |  How does the candidate ensure proper communication occurs. Communication style.   
Health advocacy |  Examples of initiatives you have been a part of, and/or experiences where you advocated for your patients or the patient population at large.   
Interest in the discipline |  Electives completed and scholarly projects within radiology.   
Interest in the program |  Completed any electives. What are the perceived strengths and areas for improvement.   
Leadership skills |  What roles have you had in the organizations that you have been involved.   
Professionalism |  How does the candidate comport themselves. Feedback given on patient and team member interaction.   
Scholarly activities |  Presentations and academic publications.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Quick Facts**

The program offers exposure to all modalities and disciplines in radiology.
Unique aspects of the program include a very active
interventional/neurointerventional service and a high volume of cutting-edge
imaging studies, cardiac CT and MR, breast MR, abdominal MR and PET/CT.

Multiple fellowship-trained radiologists in every sub-specialty are on staff,
including dedicated pediatric radiologists at Winnipeg Children's Hospital as
well as subspecialists in chest imaging, abdominal imaging, neuroradiology,
musculoskeletal imaging, breast imaging, and interventional among others.  The
large catchment area of the entire province of Manitoba, Northern Territories,
and Northwestern Ontario ensures a high level of pathology at the tertiary
care teaching centres.

  * Inter-provincial electives can be taken.
  * Ratio of residents to faculty is 1:1
  * No mandatory rural rotations, but these are available for interested residents.
  * The program prides itself on having a collegial relationship between residents and staff, and a high resident morale.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Transition To Discipline**  **(TTD)**  
These learning experiences consist of rotations in surgery, medicine,
pediatrics, adult and peds ER, neurology, and pathology, which will solidify
the core medical knowledge required to be a consultant radiologist.

  
  

**Foundations and Core**

The resident is exposed to core training in all imaging disciplines organized
in blocks of 1-3 months in duration. These include abdominal imaging, chest &
cardiac imaging, musculoskeletal imaging, interventional radiology,
neuroradiology, pediatric imaging, ultrasound, nuclear medicine, and breast
imaging. The resident receives instruction in image interpretation and
procedural skills related to each discipline.

Residents also attend a 4-week radiographic pathologic correlation course
organized by AIRP, which is based in Washington, D.C.  The AIRP Course may be
provided virtually, depending on existing travel restrictions at that time.



**Transition To Practice (TTP)**

Learning experiences are organized for the last six months of training,
following the Royal College Exam. These experiences allow residents to round
their clinical radiology training, and/or help prepare them for their upcoming
fellowships.

  
  

**Learning Oppourtunities**

Residents attend a weekly academic half-day seminar series and daily resident
rounds

Dedicated in house physics teaching for our residents by qualified medical
physicists

Journal Club is scheduled several times per year

A formal staff and peer-to-peer mentorship program exists

In-house practice oral exams twice per year

Many opportunites for medical student and peer-to-peer teaching

Participation in the National OSCE

  
  

**Research**  
Successful completion of a scholarly project is required.  Financial support
and protected time is available for research.  Residents are expected to
present their projects at the annual Radiology Research Day event.



* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

The residency program is based at the Health Sciences Centre (including the
Children's Hospital), St. Boniface Hospital, and Grace General Hospital, which
are tertiary care institutions. The teaching hospitals offer state of the art
scanners, l.5T and 3T clinical magnetic resonance scanners.

The Kleysen Institute for Advanced Medicine is located at the Health Sciences
Centre and is home to one of the only IMRIS hybrid 3T MRI and biplane
neuroangiography suites in Canada.

The Nuclear Medicine Department at Health Sciences Centre also performs high
volume on-site PET/CT and SPECT/CT scans.

Residents rotate through the Manitoba Breast Health Centre, where
comprehensive multimodality breast imaging and intervention is performed, and
the Pan Am Clinic, a dedicated sports medicine centre with on-site MRI.

Several electronic medical resources are available.

* * *

# Additional Information

All residents are given time and receive funding to attend AIRP and one
scientific conference per academic year.  An additional subsidized meeting
will be allowed, if presenting at a major radiological conference.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27422?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27422