#  University of Toronto - Emergency Medicine - Toronto  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on September 22, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Kaif Pardhan  

Address Department of Medicine  
C. David Naylor Building  
6 Queen's Park Crescent West, 3rd Floor  
Toronto , Ontario, M5S 3H2  

416-978-5222

Websites of Interest [ Emergency Medicine Website
](http://www.deptmedicine.utoronto.ca/emergency-medicine)  
[ U of T EM ](https://deptmedicine.utoronto.ca/emergency-medicine-information-
medical-students)  
[ Emergency Medicine Resident Website
](http://www.deptmedicine.utoronto.ca/emergency-medicine-resident-resources)  
[ PGME at U of T ](http://www.pgme.utoronto.ca/)  
[ Toronto: The world at your doorstep
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ElmVUKUgVig&list=UUDIkraOn9KhicFuQfzIcmHQ&index=47)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Kaif Pardhan

Title: Program Director

Email: program.em@utoronto.ca

Phone: 416-978-5222

  

Name: Jenn Robertson

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: program.em@utoronto.ca

Phone: 416-978-5222

  

Name: Carolyn Laidlaw

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: program.em@utoronto.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion**  
All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of the
University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

  
**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)  
** The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.  
  
_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

* * *

# Return of Service

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Thank you for your interest in the Postgraduate Education program in the
division of Emergency Medicine at the University of Toronto!

Our program seeks to train socially conscious emergency physicians with
excellent clinical skills who provide safe, efficient, and patient centred
care, while being advocates and leaders in emergency medicine and beyond.  We
are looking for residents with strong interpersonal and problem-solving
skills, the ability to self-reflect and exhibit continual growth, and high
ethical and professional standards.

The University of Toronto Emergency Medicine residency program offers
exceptional training. The faculty is diverse and includes well-recognized
experts in research, education, administration, and clinical practice. The
training hospitals serve the Greater Toronto Area, providing direct care to a
local population of over 6 million people, and to a referral population that
is much larger. Residents will be exposed to a wide variety of practice
settings and will work and train in state of the art technical facilities. In
the PGY5 year, residents will pursue an Area of Advanced Learning that is
collaboratively developed by the resident and the program.

The University of Toronto program in Emergency Medicine is accredited by the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

**Meet and Greet Q &A Sessions**

We encourage all potential candidates to learn more about what makes the
University of Toronto Emergency Medicine program so special. If you are in
Toronto, we would love for you to attend our weekly academic rounds which are
held every Tuesday.  Note – participation/attendance at academic rounds is not
tracked or reviewed by the selection committee. We would also be more than
happy to answer any questions you have at our Q&A sessions happening
throughout the year. Please reach out to our first year rep
(torontoempgy1rep@gmail.com) or our Chief/Lead residents
(torontoemleads@gmail.com) for more information.

Visit our website @ [UofT EM: Information for Medical
Students](https://deptmedicine.utoronto.ca/emergency-medicine-information-
medical-students)

Follow us on Instagram [@EMUofT](https://www.instagram.com/emuoft/)

In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Language assessment document accepted:  **TOEFL-iBT

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:**  7 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Occupational English Test (OET)
-Medicine

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum score of 9 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Letter of language proficiency*

*Alternatively, candidates can submit a printout from the [World Directory of Medical Schools](http://www.wdoms.org/) which clearly states that the language of instruction is English or French.

The **IELTS Indicator**  will be accepted as a substitute for the Academic
Version of the IELTS.

The **TOEFL iBT Home Edition**  will be accepted as a substitute for the TOEFL
iBT.

Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site. Please
review specific program descriptions for more information.

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

  * **Date/milestone assessment submission required:**  File review opening
  * **Requirement:  **Mandatory

For more information on the MCCQE Part 1 click on the following link
<https://www.mcc.ca/examinations/mccqe-part-i/>

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

  * **Date/milestone assessment submission required:  **File review opening
  * **Requirement:  **Mandatory with exceptions*

* MCCQE part II can be used to apply instead of the NAC

For more information on the NAC OSCE click on the following link [National Assessment Collaboration | Medical Council of Canada](http://mcc.ca/examinations/nac-overview/)

Reference documents

Required

Emergency Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Three Emergency Medicine structured reference letters are required and must be
completed by staff physicians. Letters from residents or fellows will NOT be
accepted.

Having one or more structured reference letters from an Emergency Medicine
physician is helpful but not required. At least two references should be from
someone with whom you have worked clinically.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

A personal letter is required. The letter should not exceed 750 words. The
letter will be reviewed with a specific focus on the following:

  * Your reasons for choosing emergency medicine.
  * Your motivation to pursue the Royal College Emergency Medicine Training Program.
  * Your reasons for applying to the University of Toronto emergency medicine program.
  * How your experiences have contributed to your decision to pursue emergency medicine (this may include core rotations, elective rotations, research, mentorship, or previous career).
  * How you plan to contribute to the residency program, university, specialty, or broader community during your training
  * One (or more) examples of how you dealt with a specific adversity and/or challenge(s) and what you learned from the experience(s)
  * How your lived experience has impacted your educational journey, career goals, and vision of emergency medicine
  * Any coaching or remediation you had in medical school (if applicable) and what you learned from that process

We expect your personal letter to be your own work. We recognize that there
are generative artificial intelligence tools available (such as ChatGPT). It
is acceptable to use these tools to assist with developing your ideas and the
structure of your letter; however, the personal statement must be written by
you. Please see the University of Toronto's Frequently Asked Questions Page
regarding generative artificial intelligence
[here](https://www.viceprovostundergrad.utoronto.ca/strategic-
priorities/digital-learning/special-initiative-artificial-intelligence/).  
  
_Important Note: Please address any gaps in training or remediation periods in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count._

Custom Résumé / CV

A complete curriculum vitae including all education, employment, academic and
extracurricular activities.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

If you have already completed medical school, please submit a copy of your
diploma.

If you are still in medical school and are selected for our program you will
be asked to provide a copy of your diploma before starting residency.

Order from your Registrar. Documents not in English must be accompanied by a
notarized translation.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Each applicant's file which includes the personal letter, curriculum vitae,
academic transcript, Medical Student Performance Record, and reference letters
outlined in the "Supporting Documentation" and "Reference Documents" sections
will be reviewed and scored by 3 members of the selection committee (two
residents and one faculty) using a standardized evaluation tool. All file
reviewers are z-scored to ensure that applicants are not disadvantaged by
being assigned to a specific reviewer. The evaluation tool looks for personal
attributes and skills compatible with a career in emergency medicine,
including insight into the specialty, strong interpersonal skills, ability to
self-reflect and incorporate feedback, excellent decision making ability,
maturity, motivation, and focus. Prior clinical exposure is important, and
applicants are encouraged to complete at least one elective in Emergency
Medicine. Desirable candidates will have the background or traits that
showcase their potential to become the future leaders, teachers, researchers,
or administrators in Emergency Medicine.

Notes about electives:

\- We are delighted to welcome elective medical students back to the
University of Toronto! We are also aware that many of you may not be able to
complete electives in Toronto or outside your home institution. If you are
unable to complete an elective in Toronto, this will **NOT**  impact your
application to our program.

\- Completion of an emergency medicine elective in North America (if possible)
will be an asset for IMG residents, particularly in the first three months of
training.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 27, 2025
  * January 28, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Applicants will be notified no later than
December 20, 2024.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Personal interviews will be offered
to a limited number of applicants based on the results of the file review.
Only applicants who are interviewed will be ranked. Interview dates will be
coordinated with other emergency medicine programs across Canada. All
interviews will be virtual this year.  
  
Candidates will participate in six interviews, each approximately 10 minutes
in duration. These interviews will be one on one with both residents and
faculty members.  
  
Interviews will involve standardized questions and each interviewer will score
the candidate independently.  
  
All candidates will have the opportunity to meet the Program Director
individually. This component of the interview will not be scored.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We abide with the Temerty Faculty of Medicine's principles of diversity and
inclusion, which are as follows:

  * recruiting practices that reflect diversity of our society
  * maintaining an environment of equity and fairness where all can work and learn
  * assuring that our program and curricula prepare our graduates to meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in Canada and around the world.



## Program goals

Emergency Medicine is a cornerstone of Canadian health care, providing
universal access to care for all patient presentations across a broad spectrum
of illnesses and injuries, including underserved and/or disadvantaged
populations, at all times. Specialist emergency medicine physicians integrate
all of the CanMEDS Roles, applying medical knowledge, clinical skills, and
professional values in their provision of high-quality and safe patient-
centred care.

The University of Toronto emergency medicine program is structured in
accordance with the training requirements of the RCPSC with the aim to:

  * Train high calibre emergency medicine specialists who can respond to a broad range of clinical and psychosocial, non-urgent, urgent, and emergent presentations across a broad range of patient populations and age groups
  * Train physicians who, in the era of increased complexity, are equipped to respond to challenges with societal and patient needs at the centre
  * Foster future leaders, educators, researchers, administrators, quality improvement experts, and advocates in emergency medicine and beyond.
  * Create strong awareness and encourage advocacy for areas of societal need, social determinants of health, and needs of marginalised populations
  * Foster physician wellness, balance, and career fulfilment
  * Foster physicians with a growth mindset who continue to strive for excellence

## Selection process goals

We look for the following attributes in our successful applicants:

  * passion for the specialty of emergency medicine
  * intellectual curiosity and investment
  * record of leadership
  * strong work ethic
  * team player
  * empathy
  * growth mindset

**All professionalism concerns are taken seriously during all stages of the
selection process. If professionalism concerns arise, the committee and
program director review each circumstance on an individual basis.**

## File review process

Review team composition : Each applicant’s file is reviewed and scored by
three members (two residents and one faculty) using a standardized rubric. All
file reviewers are z-scored to ensure no candidate is disadvantaged by being
assigned to a specific reviewer.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  All education, employment, academic and extracurricular activities   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We value a diversity of elective experiences. We encourage all candidates to pursue at least one elective in emergency medicine and we recognize that electives outside emergency medicine may be helpful for both learning and career planning. We also recognize that there are many factors that impact candidates’ opportunities to arrange and complete electives outside their home institutions. We would like to reassure you that a lack of elective activity outside your home institution will not negatively impact your application to our program.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  The MCCQE1 and NAC OSCE scores are reviewed for all IMG Candidates. Only candidates meeting a minimum score in these exams will be reviewed further.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Sustained commitment to extra-curricular activities both within and outside of medicine.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of leadership experience and skills.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Overall review, including narrative medical school rotation comments   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Please see Supporting Documents: Additional Documents for personal letter guidelines and word count.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Fit, skills, and attributes that fit with emergency medicine Please see Supporting Documents: Reference Documents for reference letter guidelines.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest and output in research   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Overall review   
Other file component(s) |  Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program. No other documents will be reviewed.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We recognize that there are many factors that impact candidates' opportunities
to arrange and complete electives outside their home institutions. We would
like to reassure you that a lack of elective activity outside your home
institution will not negatively impact your application to our program.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Shared decision making, excellent communication skills, insight   
Collegiality |  Team-player, compassionate, empathetic   
Communication skills |  Strong communication skills.   
Health advocacy |  Shows awareness of how advocacy impacts patient care   
Interest in the discipline |  Shows insight into the specialty, it's strengths and challenges.   
Interest in the program |  Shows interest and knowledge of the program.   
Leadership skills |  Has a growth mindset, self-efficacy, insight, incorporates feedback.   
Professionalism |  Breaches in professionalism at any stage of the CaRMS process are considered.   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this in our interview.   
Other interview component(s) |  A committee consisting of all interviewers, the Chief/Lead residents, program coordinators, program director, and assistant program director review the interview scores and develop a rank list based on those scores.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**The City**

As Canada's largest and most diverse city, [Toronto](http://www.toronto.ca/),
Ontario's capital city, presents a unique opportunity for residents. Our
program is one of the largest in the country and our core sites are among the
busiest in the nation.  Each site provides residents with valuable exposure to
diverse patient populations (including inner city and at-risk patients) as
well as to a high variety of pathology. The diversity of its population is
also well-reflected in Toronto's incredible mix of unique cultural, nightlife,
dining, and shopping options. The city offers many natural escapes, including
the Toronto Island, the Harbourfront, and numerous parks and recreational
facilities.

**Wellness, Mentorship, and Representation**

Wellness

We have a wonderful community of residents and faculty, with a number of
social activities organized throughout the year that brings our community
together. [PGME](https://pg.postmd.utoronto.ca/current-trainees/while-youre-
training/access-wellness-resources/) offers a robust Wellness Office for all
residents. We take wellness seriously and have dedicated wellness sessions
during our academic curriculum. We encourage candidates to find us on
Instagram (@EMUofT) to see photos of our annual summer retreat and the
numerous wellness and mentorship activities we participate in.

Mentorship

Amongst the 297 full-time, 146 part-time faculty members and 121 adjunct
faculty members within the Division of Emergency Medicine, residents will be
able to find a wealth of mentorship and support that meets their personal and
professional needs. In addition, all residents become members of a buddy group
that includes at least one member from each cohort, as well as two or more
faculty members, that meet several times during the year.

The Program Director, Assistant Program Director(s), and Division Director
provide overall mentorship and career support to all residents. Regular Town
Hall meetings are held every 2-3 months to discuss successes and challenges in
the program. The program director meets each resident individually at least
twice a year.

Representation

The PGY-1 and PGY-2 cohorts have elected representatives and all residents in
the program are represented by the Lead Residents who are in PGY-3. The Lead
Residents continue to represent their cohorts in PGY-4 and PGY-5. All resident
representatives are encouraged to bring forward ideas and concerns from their
cohorts and are well supported by the Program Director. Resident
representatives are all voting members of the Emergency Medicine Residency
Training Committee (EMRTC). EMRTC collaborates with the Program Director on
many issues pertaining to the residency program. Lead residents are also
responsible for scheduling academic activities and serving as liaisons between
the residents and the program.

We are also unique in that the University of Toronto Emergency Medicine
Program has a dedicated position on the Professional Association of Residents
of Ontario (PARO) General Council. This position is filled through an election
process run by PARO each year.

**Our Curriculum**

We are delighted to be able to offer a protected academic full day each week.
This includes several unique longitudinal curricula that are further explored
below.



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The stages of training are as follows:

  * Transition to Discipline - 3 months (PGY 1)
  * Foundations of Discipline - 9 Months (PGY 1)
  * Core of Discipline - 3 years (PGY 2-4)
  * Transition to Practice - 1 year (PGY 5)



**PGY-1**

The PGY-1 year consists of Transition to Discipline (TTD) and Foundations
(FOD) stages.

TTD consists of:

  * 3 blocks of emergency medicine at one of our core sites.
  * A comprehensive academic day tailored to this stage of training that includes lectures, procedural workshops, and simulation sessions.
  * A simulation based OSCE and written exam at the end of TTD

FOD consists of:

  * 3 blocks of emergency medicine at our core sites
  * 1 block of emergency medicine at our community site (North York General Hospital)
  * 1 block of pediatric emergency medicine (PEM) at the Hospital for Sick Children (SickKids)*
  * 1 block of anesthesia (site based on availability)
  * 1 block of MSK/sports medicine (University Health Network)
  * 1 block of inpatient pediatrics (North York General Hospital)
  * 1 block of general internal medicine (Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre)
  * Dedicated FOD lectures as part of our academic day, along with other academic day sessions (outlined below)

*After completing 1 block of PEM, all subsequent core emergency medicine rotations will include two PEM shifts. 



**PGY2-4**

 The PGY2-4 years constitutes the Core of Discipline stage of residency and
includes rotations in:

  * Emergency medicine at core sites
  * Emergency medicine at community sites
  * Pediatric emergency medicine
  * Obstetrics and Gynecology
  * Psychiatry
  * Orthopedics
  * Trauma
  * Anesthesia
  * ICU
  * CCU
  * Internal Medicine emergency department consults
  * Advanced Ultrasound
  * Toxicology
  * Pre-hospital care (EMS)

**The Royal College exam occurs at the end of PGY 4**

Transition to Practice (TtP) EPA's and the dedicated TtP Curriculum will begin
at the end of PGY-4.



**PGY-5**

**Area of Advanced Learning (AAL):**

**The overarching objective of the AAL year is to provide residents with the
opportunity to develop an academic area of expertise and/or leadership
relevant to Emergency Medicine, beyond the standard clinical practice.
Although the area of expertise may be clinical (e.g. trauma), the curriculum
design must include academic components (attending rounds, etc). The AAL will
be between 6 and 12 months and will be collaboratively developed by the
resident and the Program Director.**

Residents have previously used this opportunity to pursue*:

  * Formal fellowships including: Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Toxicology, Critical Care, Pre-Hospital Care, or Global Health
  * A self developed program to enhance their skills in: Trauma, Critical Care, Palliative Care, Pain Medicine, and Simulation
  * Advanced degrees in education, quality improvement, business administration, and health policy
  * Some combination of the above

* Note: The above list is not exhaustive. 



**Clinical Requirements:**

**With the AAL year being the final year of residency training, the program
has an obligation to ensure maintenance of competence prior to residents
entering independent practice. Clinical requirements include:**

  * Two Transition to Practice blocks (these may be completed in PGY-4)
  * Emergency Medicine shifts at core training sites. _Shift requirements will be based on the nature and duration of the AAL_



**Transition to Practice (TtP) Curriculum:**

The TtP Curriculum consists of a clinical and didactic component.

Two Clinical Block "Junior Attending Rotation" with a focus on:

  * Overall departmental management, including departmental flow and optimizing patient care
  * Teaching and supervision of junior and senior trainees in the emergency department and in the classroom setting
  * Quality assurance including following up on imaging, discrepant results, and consult notes
  * Increasing autonomy throughout the rotation with the supervisor being at arms length, but still providing coaching and mentorship on resident performance.

Didactic Curriculum with a focus on:

  * Applying for staff positions in an emergency department
  * Starting and academic or community practice
  * Building a professional portfolio
  * Continuing professional development
  * Teaching, supervision, and feedback
  * Finances
  * Conflict management
  * Managing patient complaints



**ACADEMIC DAY**

The University of Toronto offers a protected full academic day every Tuesday.
Attendance is mandatory and residents are excused from their clinical
responsibilities from 8:00 am - 5:00 pm so that they can attend.

**1.  Morning Sessions**

In the morning, residents learn high-yield core emergency medicine content
relevant to their level of training. Additionally, residents are required to
present at resident rounds at least once per year to gain teaching experience
and develop expertise in their chosen topic.

In the afternoons, residents participate in simulation, procedure lab, POCUS
training, and other unique curricula that include clinical epidemiology,
bioethics, geriatric medicine, and equity, diversity, and cultural safety as
outlined below. Wellness sessions that are resident-led and supported by our
program are also held routinely throughout the year.

We are very excited to have returned to in person teaching; however, we
continue to abide by local public health guidelines and may return to virtual
learning should the need arise.

**2\. UNIQUE CURRICULA**

**ULTRASOUND/ADVANCED ULTRASOUND  **

We have a rigorous Point-of-Care Ultrasound (POCUS) curriculum which includes
a dedicated basic POCUS block in PGY-1 and advanced POCUS block in PGY-3.
Residents will become proficient in using POCUS in resuscitation and acute
emergency medicine presentations. All residents will be certified in the
Canadian Emergency Ultrasound Society Independent Practitioner Program (CEUS
IP) in PGY-1.

**CLINICAL EPIDEMIOLOGY**

This is a ten session afternoon curriculum for PGY-1 and PGY-2 residents to
support them as they become academic emergency physicians and in the
development of their resident scholarly project.

**BIOETHICS**

This is a six session afternoon curriculum for PGY-2 residents. It provides
foundational knowledge for bioethics in an emergency medicine context,
including the interface between physicians and pharmaceutical/device
companies, end of life care, and pediatrics. It also has a module specifically
set up for residents to share and debrief around their own experiences
managing ethical dilemmas.

**GERIATRIC EMERGENCY MEDICINE**

This training consists of six afternoon modules during the PGY-3 year and
includes an extremely well reviewed simulation session where residents
experience some of the mobility, hearing, and visual impairments experienced
by older adults.

**EQUITY, DIVERSITY, AND CULTURAL SAFETY**

This is a longitudinal curriculum that spans two years and is refreshed on an
ongoing basis. We work with numerous local community organisations to provide
teaching from physicians, interdisciplinary staff, and individuals with lived
experience on a variety of topics. It is highly resident driven and residents
with special areas of interest in these fields are encouraged to assist with
designing material and reaching out to community groups. It includes a walking
tour of shelters and supervised substance use sites for PGY-1 residents, and a
didactic curriculum that is focused on populations that are marginalized, at
high risk, or who may need specific advocacy or cultural competencies in the
emergency department. Specific topics include: Black Health, Trans Health,
Homelessness, Indigenous Health, New Arrivals, Human Trafficking, Patients who
are Incarcerated, and Trauma Informed Care.

**SIMULATION TRAINING**

The University of Toronto program offers and exciting simulation curriculum
for residents at all stages of their training. This comprehensive program was
developed by faculty and residents at all stages of their training. This
comprehensive program was developed by faculty and residents and takes place
at state-of-the-art simulation centres across the city. The sessions focus on
areas such as resuscitation, critical care, pediatrics, toxicology, trauma,
and human factors/crisis resource management. Residents are heavily exposed to
simulation during TTD and these sessions continue throughout residency. The
curriculum is tailored for junior and senior residents and complexity
increases as they progress through the program. PGY-5 residents also have the
opportunity to teach simulation.

**PROCEDURAL SESSIONS**

We provide a number of procedural sessions to our residents where they can
learn and practice procedures in a safe environment. These include the
Surgical Skills Session, Casting, and Suturing for the PGY 1 year and an
annual Critical Skills Day for the PGY-3 - PGY-5 residents.

**ACADEMIC INTERESTS**

Within the Division of Emergency Medicine there are countless emergency
medicine faculty with interests in every area imaginable. At the University of
Toronto, you are sure to find someone who is either an expert in the topic of
your interest. Additionally, Toronto offers endless opportunities for
interdisciplinary projects in public health, medical education, business,
technology and AI and more. Residents are provided formal education in
critical appraisal and clinical epidemiology to assist in their research
projects.

**3\. JOURNAL CLUB**

Monthly journal club provides an opportunity to highlight some important EM
related articles and to develop an appreciation for evidence-based medicine.
PGY-1 residents act as observer-participants; PGY-2 and PGY-3 residents act as
hosts and article selectors/reviewers. One or two clinical consultants and one
clinical epidemiology consultant provide faculty input and guidance. Journal
clubs are designed to cover current emergency medicine topics as well as to
reinforce formal evidence-based methodology with regard to reading the
literature.



**RESEARCH**

Research is supported by the Resident Academic Project Committee, which is
chaired by the Assistant Program Director. The Program Director and faculty
research mentors also provide support for scholarly activities. Residents are
responsible for completing at least one academic project suitable for
submission to peer-review and are expected to do a presentation related to
their work at the annual Research Academic Day. Residents are also encouraged
to present at national and international meetings. There is financial support
provided for travel to meetings where residents are presenting.

The University of Toronto offers interested residents an opportunity to apply
to the Clinician-Scientist or Clinician Investigator Program (as part of their
AAL) and may qualify for financial support.

  
  

**EXAMS**

Residents complete a written examination and a simulation OSCE at the end of
their TTD training.

Practice oral examinations are given twice per year - in June and December -
the exams are designed by our Assessment Committee and are modelled on the
Royal College format. PGY-4 residents also have dedicated oral examination
practice sessions in advance of the Royal College Examination.

The University of Toronto is an active participant in the Canadian In-Training
Examination collaboratively developed by all emergency medicine residency
programs.  This occurs in Fall and Spring of each year and has been deemed
excellent practice for the Royal College Examinations.

All residents participate in the examinations in order to receive early
exposure to the exam structure and longitudinal feedback on their performance.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Faculty & Training Sites**

Faculty from our program come from three different streams: The Divisions of
Emergency Medicine under the Departments of Medicine (DoM) and Family and
Community Medicine (DFCM) and the Division of Pediatric Emergency Medicine in
the Department of Pediatrics (DoP). There are 95 full time faculty members
with academic appointments as of September 2021 including 4 professors, 14
associate professors, 58 assistant professors, and 19 lecturer or equivalents.
The Division of Emergency Medicine has an additional 46 faculty members with
adjunct appointments including 1 professor, 2 associate professors, 8
assistant professors, and 35 lecturers.

Clinical ratios depend on the site and rotation. At the core emergency
medicine sites, there is from one to four staﬀ physicians on duty at all
times. Residents enjoy graded responsibilities and have the opportunity to
work with their senior resident colleagues as well as be supervised by
emergency physicians directly.

Average patient load depends on the site and skills and training level of the
resident. Junior residents are more closely supervised, while senior residents
are given increasing autonomy while still being supervised. Senior residents
are also expected to take on greater departmental responsibilities including
patient flow, teaching and supervision, and liaising with other healthcare
professionals to optimize patient care.

Our core emergency medicine sites are Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre
(SHSC), St. Michael's Hospital (SMH), and University Health Network (UHN),
which includes Toronto General and Toronto Western sites. Additional training
sites include Hospital for Sick Children (HSC), North York General Hospital
(NYGH), and ORNGE, the air ambulance and transport medicine service for the
province of Ontario.

**Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre**

**Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre (SHSC) is a tertiary care hospital and
Canada's largest trauma centre. We see very high acuity patients and have the
highest proportion of CTAS 1 patients in the province. The Emergency
Department provides community care to our surrounding catchment, but patients
are also transported to us from across Ontario to receive specialized care in
burns, trauma, oncology, neurosurgery, stroke, cardiology, critical care, and
obstetrics. We have a large proportion of elderly frail patients and have
expertise and resources focused on safely transitioning these vulnerable
patients back to the community. Our emergency physicians represent a diverse
group and have many academic and clinical interests, including prehospital
care and medical transport, research, trauma, point-of-care ultrasound,
quality improvement and innovation, medical education, and simulation. Across
all program areas, our emergency physicians are committed to teaching
excellence and scholarly contributions.**  (Emergency Department Annual
Volume: 60,000)

 **St. Michael's Hospital**

**St. Michael's Hospital (SMH) is a tertiary care hospital and trauma referral
centre for southern Ontario and part of the Unity Health Toronto Hospital
Network. The emergency department provides care to the adjacent community and
also acts as a referral centre for trauma, neurosurgery, cardiovascular
disease, psychiatry, nephrology, and subspecialty medicine. SMH provides
exposure to complex social and clinical patient care. The hospital is located
in the downtown core and plays a lead role in the urban health program. The
program provides the residents with excellent educational opportunities;
exposing them to issues of substance abuse, infectious disease, penetrating
trauma, and homelessness.   It is home to multiple outreach programs that
start in the emergency department, with the Rotary Centre as its hub. The
emergency medicine faculty members have developed expertise in trauma,
toxicology, urban health, medical education, pediatrics, and research. The
department is in the middle of a major expansion and redesign that will see
the space more than double and the first phase has been completed. Key
features include a 36 bed acute care area where all beds are designed to
manage resuscitation, a state of the art trauma room that can expand to caring
for 4 patients simultaneously, and a purpose-built mental health area. The
future department will include an expanded ambulatory care area, in-department
CT, and an ultrasound suite.** (Emergency Department Annual Volume: > 80,000)

**UHN (Toronto General and Toronto Western sites)**

University Health Network (UHN) mixes complex quaternary care (Toronto General
Hospital) and community emergency care (Toronto Western Hospital) across its 2
emergency sites. The diverse groups of patients seen include transplant,
oncology, and complex surgical cases. It is a referral centre for
neurosurgery, vascular surgery, acute stroke, and cardiovascular disease. As
such, learners are exposed to acute care for medically complex patients along
with inner city emergency care. The department of emergency medicine at UHN is
one of the largest in Canada, and has more than 200 students and residents
rotating through each year. There are over 85 staff physicians with special
interests in global health (Global Health Emergency Medicine/GHEM), sports
medicine, research, addiction medicine, point of care ultrasound, simulation,
quality improvement, emergency care of the elderly, and patient safety,
medical education, health equity, and informatics. The staff is committed to
high quality clinical care, teaching excellence, and innovation. (Emergency
Department Annual Volume: 55000 [TGH] & 70000 [TWH])

**The Hospital for Sick Children**

The Emergency Department (ED) is by far one of the busiest pediatric emergency
departments in North America with approximately 200-300 visits per day.
Approximately 82,000 children and their families will visit the ED each year
with various needs. Regardless of the reason for these visits, we strive to
always provide safe, high-quality, courteous, and efficient care.

As a trainee in our ED, you will encounter children with a wide variety of
medical, surgical, psychiatric, and social problems, each of which is unique
in the context of the individual child. You will meet patients and families
from a wide range of cultural and socio-economic backgrounds and with a broad
variety of expectations relating to their care in emergency services. The
experience of working in a busy, multidisciplinary clinical setting will allow
you to learn how to perform a proper assessment and simultaneously develop
critical decision making and communication skills. You will have opportunities
to refine your approach to the sick, injured and often anxious child. Most
importantly, you will grow in your capacity to provide exceptional care in a
sensitive and caring manner.

**North York General Hospital**

**North York General Hospital is a high volume community-based hospital which
functions as one of the core hospitals throughout resident training.
Residents rotate through both the emergency department and off-service
rotations (such as OBGYN and Pediatrics).  The residents will be exposed to
common emergency medicine presentations including a variety of medical cases,
surgical emergencies, and a high volume of common pediatric presentations.
The unique teaching environment allows the residents a greater degree of
autonomy and direct interaction with staff physicians.  The high volume of
patients will allow the residents to be exposed to an environment where ED
flow is a high priority.** (Emergency Department Annual Volume: 130,000).

**ORNGE**

Ornge, a not-for-profit, charitable organization, is Ontario’s provider of air
ambulance and related services.  Established in 2006, Ornge is responsible for
approximately 21,000 patient-related transports each year, serving a
population of more than 13 million people across 1 million square kilometres.
With a fleet that includes airplanes, helicopters and land ambulances
operating from 12 bases across the province, Ornge crews perform emergent and
urgent inter-facility transports and emergent on-scene responses while
supporting healthcare in remote communities across Ontario.  The Ornge team
consists of paramedics, pilots, aircraft maintenance engineers, communications
officers, physicians, educators and support staff.

Ornge offers a number of opportunities for physicians to become involved in
critical care transport in Ontario including one-month observerships, a
6-month resident area of advanced learning (AAL) rotation, and a twelve-month
University of Toronto affiliated clinical fellowship.  In addition, there are
opportunities to partner with Ornge for educational opportunities focusing on
indigenous health and rural and remote medicine.

For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>

* * *

# Additional Information

**Pre-residency Orientation Programs**

All IMG candidates accepted to all residency programs will be required to
complete either the Pre-Residency Program (PRP) or the Pre-Residency Program
for Family Medicine (PRPFM) prior to entering into a residency program.
Matched IMGs will be expected to attend these programs in Toronto, several
weeks in advance of the start of their residency program. In some cases, this
may result in a delay of the start date of the residency. Additional
information on the PRP and PRP FM programs can be found at the following link:
[Touchstone Institute](http://www.touchstoneinstitute.ca/).

**Assessment Verification Period**

All IMG candidates accepted to residency training programs will be required to
undergo an Assessment Verification Period (AVP). This assessment period is
normally 12 weeks in length and is required by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Ontario to obtain an educational license to enter a residency
program. [CPSO – International Medical Graduates
(IMGs)](https://www.cpso.on.ca/Physicians/Registration/International-Medical-
Graduates). Successful completion of the AVP is required to continue training
in the Emergency Medicine Program. [Assessment Verification Period -
University of Toronto PGME](https://pgme.utoronto.ca/assessment-verification-
period-avp).

IMGs that have failed an AVP and are reapplying through CaRMS are ineligible
to apply for training in the same specialty in Ontario but may apply to a
different specialty in the first and/or second iteration. IMGs who have
withdrawn from a program prior to completion of an AVP must declare so upon
application.

**Additional Ontario Information:**

  1. **Permanent Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education office in order to comply with current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry.
  2. **Matched applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data file to the matched university’s postgraduate education office. The postgraduate office will share the information as needed, but not limited to the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:**  The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure to meet or provide proof**  of any of the stated requirements may result in applicant file being removed at any point during the match.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26976?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26976