#  Dalhousie University - Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery - Halifax  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Christopher Chin  

Address Surgery - Division of Otolaryngology  
VG Site, 3rd Floor, Dickson Bldg.  
5820 University Avenue  
Halifax, Nova Scotia, B3H 1V7  

Work  (902) 470-7391

Fax  (902) 425-3857

Websites of Interest [ Dalhousie University - Division of Otolaryngology
](https://medicine.dal.ca/departments/department-
sites/surgery/divisions/otolaryngology.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Ms. Brenda Oake

Title: Program Assistant

Email: brenda.oake@dal.ca

Phone: (902) 473-2737

  

Name: Dr. Gerard Corsten

Title: Program Director

Email: gerard.corsten@iwk.nshealth.ca

Phone: 902-473-2737

902-425-3857

  

* * *

# Important Information

To obtain a postgraduate training license after the conclusion of the match,
Canadian Medical Graduates (CMG's) must have registered and challenged the
Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Exam Part 1 (MCCQE 1) by July 1, 2025.
Those unsuccessful in the exam are subject to the decision of the regulatory
authority regarding licensure.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Applicants are assessed in a two-step process:

1\. File Review

All applicants will be independently scored by the selection committee and a
composite score based on the individual scores will be produced. The top 16 -
20 applicants will be invited for an interview. The file review will comprise
50% of the final candidate mark. Scoring will be based on academic
achievement, scholarly activity (research and education), extracurricular
activities and reference letters.



2\. Interview

Interviews will take place via video conferencing software for all candidates.
However, our regular interview format outlined below will continue to apply. A
separate virtual meeting room will be set up on interview day for
presentations and question/answer session with residents and the program
director.

A multi mini interview format will be used with all candidates cycled through
stations of 2 interviewers. Each interview station will follow a general
theme. Each interviewer will score each candidate and a composite score will
be developed based on these scores. The total interview score will comprise
50% of the candidate mark.





* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

####  

You must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident _**at the time of
application**_.

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required, and must be written by faculty
members/physicians who directly supervised the candidates. Letters must be in
accordance with CaRMS criteria.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Your personal letter should highlight your motivation to pursue training in
Otolaryngology - Head & Neck Surgery, including your interest in Dalhousie
University as a training site. Any other information you feel that is relevant
to your application is welcome.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Optional - will be reviewed

Custom Résumé / CV

Abstract/Publications

Extra documents such as a publication abstract, or thesis summary not
exceeding 2 pages will be reviewed. Full papers will not be reviewed.

Ophthalmological Report

This document is not mandatory for an application to our program, but we will
accept it if you submit it for our review.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

The Program Selection Committee is comprised of divisional staff members and
residents.  Applications will be divided for review and scoring to several
subgroups of the program selection committee. Each member will score the
applications according to preset criteria.

A short list will be developed by pooling the scoring of applicant files.
Applicants who made it for the short list will be invited by email for
interview as clarified in the appropriate section.  The interview process will
involve multiple mini interviews with members of the selection committee, who
will not necessarily have reviewed the applicants file in order to produce an
independent interview score.

The interview score and application score will be combined to form a final
score used for constructing the rank order list of our program.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 24, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Friday, January 24, 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The Program Assistant will contact
short listed candidates by January 3, 2025. Interviews will be held Friday,
January 24, 2025  
  
Telephone interviews are not an option.  
  
Interviews are conducted by the Program Selection Committee, which is
comprised of staff and residents, by a video conferencing platform. No in
person interviews will happen in 2025. There will be multiple interview
stations, with candidates rotating through all stations virtually.  There will
be an informal time to virtually meet with residents and administrative staff
throughout the day of the interview. A virtual presentation about the facility
and program will be made available to interested candidates. This will help
the candidate in his/her ranking of programs.  
  
An information session about the program will be held via video conferencing
on Tuesday, Jan 7, 2025 8:00 - 9:00 pm ATL time. The program director and
resident representative will be available at these sessions to answer
questions about the program.  
  
**Contact the program for meeting link and/or see the CANPREPP website for
dates & meeting links.  
**  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

To provide adequate facilites for teaching in the basic sciences, clinical and
surgical aspects of Otolaryngology. To provide background in the sciences
basic to the understanding of otolaryngologic diseases through an organized
academic program of seminars, rounds and journal clubs. To provide proper
training in medical Otolaryngology disorders through patient exposure on the
wards, outpatient clinics, Emergency Department and Intensive Care Unit. To
create a scientific atmospher by inviting discussions through visiting
professor programs, guest lectures, grand rounds, teaching, seminars and
journal clubs. To provide the means to develop technical proficiency and
surgical skills in Otolaryngologic surgery thorugh supervised exposure in the
operating room, minor surgery in the clinics, cadaver surgery in the amantomy
laboratory and the temporal bone lab. To provide adequate clinical and basic
research opportunities. To encourage a multidisciplinary approach to patient
managment in various areas such as neurotology, Head & Neck oncology and
communication disorders and dysphagia.

## Selection process goals

Ability to interact appropriately with patients and colleagues in a collegial
environment

Interest in Otolaryngology and develop into skilled surgeons and clinicans

Demonstrates abilites in all areas of the CanMEDS roles

Demonstrates ability and enthusiasm to learn and able to adapt to the various
demands on an Otolaryngologist

Our program and university value the importance of equity, diversity and
inclusion (EDI) in residency education, and achieving a diverse and inclusive
group of residents is a goal in our selection process.

Demonstrates the interest and ability for various research opportunities

## File review process

Review team composition : Comprised of divisional ENT staff members and senior
residents at Dalhousie University

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  
This could depend on the number of applications.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Optional: Evaluate content, including research, publications, electives and awards   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Experience in ENT or related fields, clinical performance   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Demonstration of interest outside of medicine   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Experience in medical and non-medical leadership   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic performance   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in discipline and program location, or other issues candidates want to highlight   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Qualities as expressed in the CanMEDS competencies   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in participating in future research projects   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed electives in
our discipline at any location.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high-quality patient care through working in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Behaviour, attitude, ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Articulate and effective professional communication   
Health advocacy |  Interest in health advocacy   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated experience in Otolaryngology care   
Interest in the program |  Training goals aligned with our medium sized training program in a medium sized city   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrates success in leadership opportunities   
Professionalism |  Respectful and ethical professional conduct   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component (evaluated via file review)   
Other interview component(s) |  We can accommodate changes for times during the interview day but cannot usually accommodate changes outside of the interview day.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Academic Half Day**

Lectures and seminars covering a comprehensive academic curriculum, which is
updated yearly, take place during the protected academic half-day every
Wednesday afternoon. The academic curriculum covers all areas of the specialty
as well as various CanMEDS roles and runs over a two-year cycle.



**Other Academic Activities**

Apart from the academic half-day, the program includes an array of activities
outlined in the yearly academic calendar, including multidisciplinary H & N
oncology rounds, grand rounds, journal club, visiting professor program,
communication disorders program, & pathology rounds.

We have regular cadaveric surgery sessions in our surgical skills lab. We have
a well equipped 2-station temporal bone dissection lab available to residents
at all times.

Residents are afforded the opportunity to attend multiple courses throughout
their residency funded by the program. This includes temporal bone dissection,
endoscopic sinus surgery, ENT bootcamp, Exam review course & other
courses/meetings as appropriate.

  
For more details of our current academic activities, please check our website:
http://otolaryngology.medicine.dal.ca



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**_Program Overview_**

Entry to Otolaryngology at Dalhousie starts at the PGY-1 level in Core Surgery
for 1.5 years divided into four-week or eight-week rotations. The core program
is a Dalhousie based co-operative joint program among various surgical
subspecialties. The PGY-1 year is coordinated by the Office of Postgraduate
Medical Education of the Faculty of Medicine while the PGY-2 year is
coordinated by the Office of Education of the Department of Surgery.
Residents in Otolaryngology are under the joint supervision of the Core
Program and the Division of Otolaryngology. In-Training Evaluation Reports are
regularly reviewed by the Otolaryngology Program Director.

Rotations for Otolaryngology residents are structured  to provide maximum
benefit and preparation to the practice of Otolaryngology - Head and Neck
Surgery. A wide array of didactic teaching is offered throughout the program
including, but not limited to, the academic half-day day program featuring a
comprehensive well structured multidisciplinary curriculum covering all
aspects of the discipline over a two year cycle.  The following is a detailed
description of the program:

**PGY-1**  
Typical rotations include: General Surgery, Otolaryngology, Emergency,
Thoracic Surgery, Anesthesia, Neurosurgery, Infectious Diseases, Oral &
Maxillofacial Surgery

**PGY-2**  
Typical rotations include: Plastic Surgery, Intensive Care, Otolaryngology

**PGY-3**  
The entire PGY-3 year will be spent rotating on various subspecialites of
Otolaryngology - Head & Neck surgery at the Victoria General Hospital, IWK,
and Dartmouth General Hospital.

Courses in Endoscopic Sinus Surgery and Temporal Bone Dissection are required
during the residency, and are typically taken during the PGY3 year. Funding
for these courses and travel amounts are provided by the department.

A community ENT rotation is typically scheduled in PGY3 at one of the training
sites in either New Brunswick or Nova Scotia.

**PGY-4**  
The entire PGY4 year will be spent rotation on various subspecialties of
Otolaryngology - Head & Neck Surgery at the Victoria General Hospital, IWK and
Dartmouth General Hospital. Elective rotations are typically taken during the
PGY4 year for 2-4 months; these may be chosen at the resident's area of
interest with approval of the Program Director in sites throughout the
Dalhousie system or at other university centres.

The objective here is to further develop and fine-tune the resident's skills
in Head and Neck, Plastic/Reconstructive Surgery and Otology fields and to
offer exposure in the senior level for community based practice with ample
hands on experience.

**PGY-5**  
The entire PGY5 year will be spent rotation on various subspecialties of
Otolaryngology - Head & Neck surgery at the Victoria General Hospital, IWK,
and Dartmouth General Hospital.

Residents at this level are expected to function more independently and
participate more actively in teaching and supervising more junior colleagues
whenever possible. This final year is an opportunity for perfecting previously
acquired surgical skills with ample hands-on experience, as well as final
preparation for the RCPSC examination.

**Research**  
All residents must complete a basic or clinical research project during each
year of their Otolaryngology training. These projects are presented at the
Divisional Resident Research Day Competition in the spring. The best projects
of the year will compete at the Departmental, Faculty and National levels.
Protected time for research and/or research rotations are provided as needed.

**Fellowship Programs**

Our program currently offers fellowship programs for an additional year of
training in Otology/Neuro-otology and Head and Neck Surgery. The fellows work
collaboratively with the residents and staff to enhance the care and teaching
environment.

* * *

# Training Sites

Residents rotate through the various institutions affiliated with Dalhousie
University: QEII Health Sciences Centre (Halifax Infirmary & Victoria General
Hospital), IWK Health Centre, Dartmouth General Hospital and Hants Community
Hospital. Community-based elective rotations are available in Saint John, NB,
Fredericton, NB, Moncton, NB, Sydney, NS or Kentville, NS.

Our Temporal Bone Lab offers two dissection stations, microscope mounted
digital video cameras connected to TV monitors to facilitate supervision by
mentors and detailed feedback.  A year-specific temporal bone surgical
dissection curriculum has been developed by our faculty otologists who oversee
the lab and directly supervise the residents.

The Department of Surgery Skills lab is a State-of-the-Art multidisciplinary
facility is available to all programs all year round for teaching and
practicing surgical skills including Head & Neck Surgery, Otology, Facial
Plastics, Endoscopic sinus surgery and Laryngology.

  
Apart from the funded temporal bone dissection course and endoscopic sinus
surgery course, funding is provided to residents annually to attend other
approved meetings and courses for educational purposes or to present research.



_NOTE: All residency programs are encouraged to have 10% of their residency
training outside of Halifax Regional Municipality as stipulated in the most
recent Academic Funding Plan set out by the Department of Health and Wellness.
Please be aware that if matched to Halifax, as part of your training you may
be expected to complete rotations outside central zone but within the maritime
provinces._

* * *

# FAQ

**Do I need to do an elective to be considered as an applicant?**

No. We will consider all applicants regardless of completing an elective in
our institution.



**I did not do an elective, should I book a meeting with the program
director?**

This is not necessary. See also general instructions. There is an opportunity
for all candidates during the interview process, to learn everything about the
program.



**Do I need an eye exam to demonstrate stereoscopic vision?**

Our program does not require this but will consider a document if you have it.



**Can I interview on a different date?**

No, but we are happy to arrange you a different interview time within the
interview day.



**Are there residents available to contact?**

Residents will be available during the information session (see program
details) and can also be contacted through our social media Instagram page:
[Dalhousie Otol-HNS Instagram
Page](https://www.instagram.com/dal_otolaryngology?utm_source=ig_web_button_share_sheet&igsh=ZDNlZDc0MzIxNw==)















Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26689?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26689