#  University of Saskatchewan - Internal Medicine - Regina

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on August 30, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 6

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Jonathan Dean  

Address Department of Medicine  
Royal University Hospital  
103 Hospital Drive  
Saskatoon SK, Saskatchewan, S7N 0W8  

(306) 844-1525

Websites of Interest [ Department of Medicine
](http://www.medicine.usask.ca/medicine/residency-program/)  
[ Explore the Internal Medicine program at the U of S
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z86YpmjWZbk)  
[ Internal Medicine Regina Instagram
](https://instagram.com/regina_internal_med?igshid=1f6g1mh19n470)  
[ Discover all that College of Medicine, Regina Campus offers when pursuing
your residency training ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3mSZ8Zz38IU)  
[ Meet the IM residents ](https://www.instagram.com/p/CKSi8-gHp-b/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Kim Gilbert

Title: Program Administrator

Email: KimDawn.Gilbert@saskhealthauthority.ca

  

Name: Kaylene Unger

Title: Program Administrator

Email: im.admins@usask.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Applicants are responsible for reviewing the [University of Saskatchewan
Policies for the R-1 Match](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/saskatchewan/) to determine if they meet all
requirements and eligibility criteria. Failure to meet or provide proof of any
of the stated requirements or documents may result in an applicant’s file not
being reviewed or ranked.

**Casper Test**  
All applicants must complete the Casper test. Please refer to the Examinations
section for more information.

**Licensing  
** Matched applicants must be eligible for an educational register license
with the [College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Registration___Licensure/web/Applicants/Licensure/Registration_and_Licensure_Landing.aspx?hkey=75b022f8-df64-4f34-8e2a-a09bea881787)
(CPSS) for a July 1st start date and must maintain eligibility for an
educational register license throughout their entire training program. Matched
applicants who are graduating in the spring will need to provide a copy of
their medical degree/diploma to the PGME office and the College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Saskatchewan (CPSS) prior to the start of residency training.
Any delays in providing all required documentation to CPSS may result in the
following:

  * delay in issuance of an educational register license and a delay in start of postgraduate training beyond July 1st
  * release from CaRMS match contract

**Applicants completing medical education at the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)**  are
required to submit proof of English language proficiency before the rank order
deadline to demonstrate they meet CPSS requirements. More information is
available under Supporting Documentation-Language Proficiency.

**NOTE:**  Applicants who are considering a delay to their convocation date
must be aware that a medical degree cannot be issued to a student until they
have convocated. CPSS bylaws require that new residents must have received
their medical degree prior to the commencement of residency training. Choosing
to delay convocation will affect a matched applicant’s ability to commence
their residency training program in Saskatchewan on July 1. Please refer to
the [U of S CaRMS Deferral Policy](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/carms-
deferral-of-training-start-date---match-violation-release-from-
match.php#relatedForms) for additional information.

**Credentialing**  
In order to commence and continue in Postgraduate Medical Education training
programs, matched applicants must be eligible for and maintain privileges
within the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) as determined by their
credentialing process. The Saskatchewan Health Authority requires successful
applicants to submit immunization records and a current criminal record check
as part of their pre-resident application for appointment. Applicants with
criminal records will be considered on a case by case basis by the College of
Medicine in consultation with the Health Authority.

Any delays in providing all required documentation to the Saskatchewan Health
Authority may result in a delay in the start of postgraduate training beyond
July 1st.

**Resident Boot Camp  
** All matched applicants must attend a mandatory three-day Resident Boot Camp
scheduled for late June. The purpose of the Boot Camp is to provide additional
support to trainees as they transition to residency by introducing and
consolidating baseline skills and knowledge needed to flourish during their
residency years. The program will include interactive case-based and hands-on
practice sessions. Stipends will be provided to trainees.

Attendance is required and absences are only permitted in exceptional
circumstances, with prior approval of PGME.

**Advanced Cardiac Life Support  
** Matched applicants are required to provide proof of ACLS certification
(current as of July 1, 2025) to the PGME office prior to starting their
training program. The ACLS course must be endorsed by the Heart and Stroke
Foundation of Canada and/or the American Heart Association. ACLS training that
is not certified by these two organizations and/or is completed entirely
through an online course will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for
all costs associated with obtaining ACLS certification.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

All applicants must be Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents at the time of
application and must submit a notarized/certified photocopy of one of the
accepted citizenship documents.

Proof of citizenship must be current at the time of application and expired
documents will not be accepted.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum of 7.0 in each of the components

**Language assessment document accepted:**

  1. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on paper at a test venue
  2. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on a computer at a test venue
  3. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine at Home

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum grade of B

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of 9 in all sections

Applicants may be required to provide proof of proficiency in the English
language to meet licensing requirements of the [College of Physicians and
Surgeons (CPSS) of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Licensure/Requirements_Content/English_Language_Proficiency.aspx).

Applicants who graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States,
where English is the language of instruction **are not**  required to submit
proof of English language proficiency.

**Canadian applicants with medical education from the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)  are required
**to meet the English language proficiency requirements of the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan and must complete one of the language
exams listed above.

Applicants who are required to complete a language exam must submit a valid
test score in their CaRMS application **by the deadline for submission and
assignment of applications and documents.** Applicants who do not provide
acceptable proof of language proficiency, if required, will not be ranked.

Applicants must meet all of the criteria in one of the IELTS, OET or CELPIP
examinations. Please note that results from examinations cannot be combined,
unless the testing institution offers a sub-test.  
NOTE: Only OET offers sub-tests. CPSS will accept sub-tests obtained within
the same 24-month period as the original OET exam was sat.

Please direct any questions about language requirements to
[della.toews@usask.ca](mailto:della.toews@usask.ca). Applicants should not
contact CPSS directly about their eligibility for licensure.

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. Please do not send more than three.
Letters from residents will not be accepted.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

In 750 words or less please submit an autobiographical letter answering the
following questions:

\- Why have you chosen Internal Medicine as your professional career?

\- What experiences in your past have led you to choose this specialty?

\- What are your personal strengths that you consider would be a contribution
to our program at the University of Saskatchewan?

\- What aspects of our program do you think will be particularly helpful to
you?

\- Why do you want to train in OUR program?

\- Do you have any specifics you wish to add or share with us?

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 28, 2025
  * January 30, 2025
  * February 1, 2025
  * February 3, 2025
  * February 5, 2025
  * February 7, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews are a very important part of our
selection process and are coordinated with other sites across Canada.  
  
All files will be reviewed and based on file review, interview offers will be
made.  
  
Offers to interview will be made on January 10, 2025. Core Internal Medicine
programs across the country use an external website for booking CaRMS
interviews. This system will open for viewing and you will receive an email
with a login and password, this will allow you to plan your interview
schedule. The system will officially open to book interviews.  
  
Interview offers will be sent directly to the applicant.  
  
Not all applicants will receive an interview.  
  
All interviews for both Saskatoon and Regina sites will be held virtually for
the 2025 R1 Match.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The interview process includes two
interviews. You will also have an opportunity to meet with the Lead Medical
Residents and other residents in various levels of the program at our Q/A
sessions in September, October and November as well as at a mid-day virtual
presentation during interview days to discuss our program as well as in the
virtual resident lounge on interview days.  
  
All interviews will be held virtually.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

\- Candidates who have demonstrated proficiency in clinical skills.

\- Superior communication and interpersonal skills.

\- Candidates with a favorable academic record.

\- Candidates who will fit in well with the philosophy and approach of our
program - a non-competitive, supportive and collegial program that seeks to
train top quality internists capable of practicing in a wide variety of venues
from academic and/or research to community based practice.

\- An interest in research is an asset.

**Selection is based on the following assessments:**

- Two independent file scores. File assessors follow a standardized assessment and base their scores on a review of all components of the file: transcripts, personal letter, reference letters and CV.

\- Three independent interviewer scores.

Final decisions about ranking are made by the formal selection committee,
which includes the program directors/administration, faculty and senior
resident representation.

## Program goals

The overall mission of our residency training program is to train top quality
internists capable of practicing in a wide variety of locations from academic
and/or research to community based practice.  This philosophy and approach of
the program is to foster success in our trainees in a non-competitive,
supportive, and collegial enviroment.  Residents in our program will
demonstrate exceptional communication and clinical skills, academic
excellence, and be a true team players.

## Selection process goals

Successful applicants to the program are those who embody our teaching and
learning philosophy of pursuing success in a non-competitive and supportive
learning enviroment.  We are looking for applicants who are academically
strong and are able to apply this knowledge clinically with a patient-centered
approach to care.  Participation in research prior to residency shows a
commitment to scholarship, and is an asset, but is not mandatory.  Successful
applicants have a strong interpersonal skills and are team players.
Successful applicants have strong communication skills with high ethical and
professional standards. Finally, successful applicants show a true commitment
and passion for Internal Medicine and training in Saskatchewan.  

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team includes the Program Director (PD),
RPC, Program Administrators, Lead Medical Residents and designated faculty.
Two independent reviews (one by the PD/APD and one by faculty) are done and
follow a standardized scoring system. Each is worth 50% of the final file
review score.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 601 +  
This includes both CMGs and IMGs for both of our sites.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  
We received >600 applications including CMG and IMG applications to both
sites. Due to human resource and time constraints, screening criteria
including MCCCQE1, NAC, OSCE, USMLE and Casper scores are applied to bring the
number of applications to a reasonable number to review in depth.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Overall academic success, evidence of extra-curricular activities and leadership skills.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Completed a broad range of electives including in Internal Medicine Disciplines.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  All applicants must complete a Casper exam to be eligible for consideration.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Participation in activities including sports, arts, music, etc. as well as volunteering .   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Participation in leadership activities during medical school.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Overall success and performance throughout medical school.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Why Internal Medicine? Why Saskatchewan? Why our Program?   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interaction with colleagues and patients.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Evidence of scholarly activity.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evidence of academic success.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  Candidates undergo two interviews, one with the Program
Director/Assistant Program Director and the other with a faculty and senior
resident. In the interview with the PD/APD, the candidate's career goals,
priorities in residency training and questions arisen from the files review
are explored. The interview with the staff/resident is composed of several
scenarios that will help assess the candidate in various CanMED roles.  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work within a multidisciplinary health care team.   
Collegiality |  Ability to work in a non-competitive and collegial program, evidence of being a team player.   
Communication skills |  Strong communication skills.   
Health advocacy |  Identify the important determinants of health affecting the patients under their care.   
Interest in the discipline |  Genuine interest in Internal Medicine.   
Interest in the program |  Genuine interest in SK.   
Leadership skills |  Strong leadership skills and participation in activities throughout medical school.   
Professionalism |  Candidates should demonstrate high professionalism standards   
Scholarly activities |  Candidates should demonstrate strong knowledge of medicine and the ability to apply that knowledge.   
Other interview component(s) |  A commitment to scholarship and life long learning to be apparent.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Distributive Learning**  
---  
  |  The College of Medicine, while physically located in Saskatoon, is a provincial resource in attitude and in practice. Postgraduate medical education at the University of Saskatchewan takes seriously its role in supporting quality health care to all people of the province. This means training physicians to meet the needs of, not only urban populations, but also those of rural and remote populations. In so doing, the College of Medicine has developed, and continues to develop, programs in Regina and other communities. These programs are designed to provide educational experiences to enhance the resident's knowledge and skills and take maximum advantage of unique educational opportunities in a diversity of communities. All postgraduate programs are expected to develop and incorporate into their curriculum, rotations in communities other than Saskatoon. The manner in which each program does this is not strictly prescribed by the College of Medicine, but is determined by the Residency Program Committee, taking into consideration the needs of their residents, and the excellent opportunities available in other locations. These rotations continue to evolve as we seek to build stronger and better programs. **While most rotations will be completed in Regina, components of the program may  be completed in Saskatoon.** Extensive support is available for mandatory out of town rotations if needed. The exact nature of this support varies with location and program. The communities involved, individual programs, the College of Medicine, and the Ministry of Health work collaboratively to ensure residents are not financially disadvantaged by the need to relocate. Housing is provided for residents completing short term rotations away from their home site within the province. Please review the [PGME Housing Guidelines](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/pgme-housing-guidelines-pgme-housing-application-for-short-term-mandatory-rotation.php#relatedForms) for more detailed information.  
**Quick Facts**  
  |  \- These positions will be based in Regina, which is a long-established medical education site of the College of Medicine at the University of Saskatchewan. While most rotations will be completed in Regina, some components of the program will be completed in Saskatoon. \- Residents are allowed 3 blocks of out-of-province for electives during their core resident training period. \- Opportunities exist for possible community based GIM rotations in various rural locations in the province.   \- GIM and select subspecialty rotations are also available in Saskatoon.  Accommodations are provided for these rotations.  
  
  
* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Curriculum**  
---  
  |  Our Program has a strong academic curriculum which is presented in a flexible format according to the evolving needs of healthcare education. In addition to a comprehensive approach to Internal Medicine, the academic curriculum also includes bioethics, evidence-based medicine, critical appraisal and communication skills. TIPS (Teaching Improvement Project System) is a mandatory course that develops communication and teaching skills. While our teaching staff is relatively small there is a wide range of academic and research interest represented and the small size of our program provides for close contact between staff and residents. The first three years of the residency program are considered core training. The purpose of these three years is to build a firm foundation in the practice of internal medicine that will be supplemented by either: a) subspecialty training or b) an additional year of training in internal medicine in preparation for a community or academic practice in general internal medicine. Clinical rotations are scheduled in 13 four-week blocks per year. Rotations will vary in length from 1/2 to 2 blocks, depending on the rotation.  
  
  |  Ambulatory care experience is available on most subspecialty rotations and is also available as a "2 half block rotations" during first and third year. During the block rotation, residents pre-schedule half-day or full-day clinics weekly with preceptors of their choice. Additional time on the ambulatory care rotation is used for follow-up of investigations, reviewing dictations and communicating with referring physicians, and to pursue evidence based answers to clinical problems seen in the clinic. Evaluation of residents on the ambulatory care rotation is encounter-based, with opportunity for formative feedback to be provided as patients are reviewed with the attending physician.  
  
**PGY-1**  
---  
  |  The PGY-1 year focuses on the development of strong clinical examination skills and patient management skills. It also provides for extensive experience in emergency assessment and management of medical problems. Junior residents are responsible for the primary assessment of patients referred to Internal Medicine from the Emergency Department. A typical PGY-1 year is structured as follows: \- multiple blocks Clinical Teaching Unit in which the resident works as part of a team comprised of: CTU Attending (faculty member), one senior resident, three to four junior residents, two senior medical students.  \- 1 block Coronary Care Unit \- 1 block Neurology \- 2-3 block selectives  \- 1 block Emergency Medicine  
  
**PGY-2**  
  |  The second core year is designed to provide a wide range of experience in subspecialty areas as well as Sr. roles of Internal medicine such as CTU Sr. Two blocks of ICU will primarily be scheduled in PGY-2 year, and 7-8 blocks of subspecialty selectives. Three elective blocks will be primarily scheduled in the PGY-2  and PGY-3 year.  
  
**PGY-3**  
  |  The third core year, residents will continue to gain experience and continue to improve their consultancy skills through a number of opportunities including CTU Sr., outpatient department, emergency room consults and subspecialty rotations.  These rotations occur at both Royal University Hospital in Saskatoon and the Regina General Hospital in Regina. One block of CCU is mandatory during the PGY-3 year.  
  
**PGY-4**  
  |  This year is designed to prepare the resident for the practice of Internal Medicine in all its aspects. The PGY-4 year offers a reasonably flexible rotation schedule which will be tailored to meet the interests, career goals, and the CBD EPA's for completion of training. The PGY-4 year is geared towards completing training in community-based Internal Medicine.  
**Subspecialty Training**  
---  
  |  Subspecialty fellowships are currently offered in Cardiology, GIM, Respirology, Rheumatology, Medical Oncology and Nephrology. Residents trained in our program have had extremely good success in obtaining out-of-province fellowships in the subspecialty of their choice.  Lead Medical Residents at both sites can offer guidance to gain resident perspective.  
  
**Vacation**  
  |  Each resident is entitled to 20 regular working days plus 6 consecutive days at either Christmas or New Year's. At least two weeks of holidays will be taken as a scheduled half block and the dates must be chosen at the time the resident schedule for the year is created. The remaining 2 weeks of holiday time may be taken during the course of the year upon approval by the rotation supervisor and Program Director. If residents prefer, all 4 weeks of holidays may be taken as a scheduled block or as two 2-week blocks.  
  
**Educational Leave**  
  |  Residents are entitled to up to 7 days of paid leave annually to attend approved educational events (includes travel time). Each resident is provided with annual conference funding. Additional funding may be available to support travel costs with priority being given to residents traveling to present papers or research.  
  
**Examinations and Assessments**  
  |  Regular examinations are an essential component of our training program - both to allow assessment of the resident's progress in knowledge acquisition and to assist residents in preparing for certification examinations. Examinations take a variety of formats, including: AMBOSS (formerly the New England Journal of Medicine) is recognized as the world's leading medical journal and website.  AMBOSS delivers high-quality, peer-reviewed research and interactive clinical content to the global medical community.  Our program has a subscription for AMBOSS for the residents.  This includes access to a question database and a yearly mandatory exam.  The exam scores offer the residents a complete breakdown of their results.  This examination is not used for promotion or evaluation purposes in the program but is used as a self-assessment modality. ** ** \- Oral examinations are held regularly throughout the program.  \- A mandatory OSCE examination for PGY-1's is held annually. \- A mandatory OSCE examination for PGY-2's is held annually. \- A mandatory OSCE examination for PGY-3's is held annually. In addition to formal examinations, evaluations of clinical performance are completed by preceptors at the end of each rotation. Overall, resident performance is reviewed and summarized by the Competency Committee as outlined by Royal College requirements.    
  
**Research**  
  |  The goals of our resident research program are: \- To promote interest and develop skills in research in Internal Medicine \- To acquire skills in interpretation of clinical research \- To provide opportunities for residents to explore and understand different types of research \- To provide opportunities for residents to acquire research and presentation skills \- To provide opportunities for residents to publish their research  
  
**Research Expectations**  
  |  **PGY-1 Year:** First year residents are expected to identify an instructive clinical case and complete a verbal presentation of the case as part of Resident Research Days. Faculty mentors provide guidance in choosing and writing up cases. Prizes are awarded for the best three case reports and residents are encouraged to submit case reports for presentation at regional or national meetings. **PGY-2 Year:** PGY-2 year residents are expected to complete a quality assurance project and to present their work as a poster presentation or podium presentation during Resident Research Days. Collaboration with other residents is encouraged. Prizes are awarded for the top three poster presentations. **PGY-3 Year:** PGY-3 The completion of a research project during the PGY-3 is optional. A research facilitator with specific skills and interests in research and biostatistics is available to assist residents in identifying potential research projects and identifying appropriate mentors. Limited funding is available to support selected research projects by application to the Department of Medicine Research Committee.   
  
**Seminars & Academic Program **  
  |  - Morning Report is case base discussions around the cases admitted overnight.   \- PGY-1 Foundations seminar series are held during Academic Half Day (AHD) from July to September.  They are video conferenced to Regina.  This is protected education time; in-person attendance is mandatory for all residents.   \- Core Internal Medicine PGY 2/3 Academic Half Day are held Tuesdays 2:00 - 5:00 pm and Thursdays 12:00 - 1:00 p.m.  They are video conferenced to Regina and St. Paul's Hospital.  This is protected education time and in-person attendance is mandatory for all residents.   \- Grand Rounds are held on Wednesday's at 12:00 to 1:00 p.m. Attendance is MANDATORY for residents in the Internal Medicine program.  They are video conferenced to Regina and St. Paul's Hospital. \- Training in learning styles and teaching skills is an integral part of our program.  In addition, PGY-1 residents are required to complete the 2 day TIPS (Teaching Improvement Project System) Course. Assessment of teaching and presentation skills is also an integral part of the program. \- Quality Improvement Rounds - sessions will be scheduled throughout the year and are presented during AHD.  These will be led by PGY-2 and PGY-3's. They are video conferenced to Regina and St. Paul's Hospital. \- PGY-1 Internal Medicine Bootcamp is held at the beginning of residency to the incoming PGY-1 residents to introduce Competency by Design medical education training and key member and components of the program including: feedback, admission and handover, discharge, etc. \- PGY-1 residents will be part of the PGME led RaPID (Resuscitation and Procedural InterDisciplinary) curriculum which is scheduled throughout the year and is mandatory for all PGY-1 residents in Internal Medicine.  The curriculum includes high fidelity simulation sessions, ultrasound simulation sessions and central venous line insertion simulation sessions.   \-  A resident retreat is organized annually.  The retreat is a combination of social events, educational sessions and discussions about the program. Recent retreats have included Practice management seminars and personal development themes.  
  
  
* * *

# Training Sites

**Regina Hospitals**

[Regina General Hospital](http://www.rqhealth.ca/facilities/regina-general-
hospital "Regina General Hospital")

[Pasqua Hospital](http://www.rqhealth.ca/facilities/pasqua-hospital "Pasqua
Hospital")

**Saskatoon Hospitals**

[Royal University
Hospital](https://www.saskatoonhealthregion.ca/locations_services/locations/ruh
"Royal University Hospital")

[St. Paul's
Hospital](https://www.saskatoonhealthregion.ca/locations_services/locations/sph
"St. Paul's Hospital")

**Rural Options:**

[Prince Albert, Victoria Hospital](https://paphr.ca/hospitals-clinic-
locations/hospitals-acute-care/victoria-hospital "Prince Albert, Victoria
Hospital ")

[Swift Current, Cypress Regional Hospital](https://cypresshealth.ca/health-
facilities/swift-current/cypress-regional-hospital/ "Swift Current, Cypress
Regional Hospital")

\- Private Practice offices in all centers

* * *

# Additional Information

**We invite you to visit the following websites to learn more about living in
Regina and Saskatchewan** :

[City of Regina](https://www.regina.ca/residents/index.htm)

[Tourism Regina](http://www.tourismregina.com/ "Click on the following links
for more information:  Tourism Regina")

[Regina Regional Economic Development
Authority](https://economicdevelopmentregina.com/)

[Tourism Saskatchewan](https://www.tourismsaskatchewan.com/ "Tourism
Saskatchewan")

[Resident Doctors of Saskatchewan
(residentdoctorssk.ca)](https://www.residentdoctorssk.ca/resources/housing)

For more information on the University of Saskatchewan, Department of Medicine
click [Dept. of
Medicine](https://medicine.usask.ca/department/clinical/medicine.php)

* * *

# FAQ

**_Please note:  These questions and answers have been provided by our Lead
Medical Residents._**

**What are strengths of this program?**

**-** Collegial atmosphere with very supportive leadership and administrative
staff

\- Staff physicians with a dedicated interest in your development

\- Staff mentors that are enthusiastic to discuss your career plans

\- Resident mentorship with a PGY-1 paired to both a PGY-2 and PGY-3, taking
into account specialty interest and IMG/CMG support

\- Collaborative friendly atmosphere amongst residents with a yearly resident
retreat and multiple social events throughout the year

\- Multiple opportunities in leading positive change within the program

\- Administrative staff that are very receptive to new resident driven ideas
and initiatives

\- Wide variety of opportunities for teaching medical students in both
clerkship and the formal undergraduate curriculum

\- Research mentors available in a variety of subspecialty fields

- Resident research grants available

\- Funding available for conference presentation and attendance

\- Flexible schedules tailored to your career interests

\- Three month of out-of-province elective time

\- Revision of Academic Half Day schedule into a block system covering the
main Royal College objectives with review sessions at the end of the block to
help residents prep for the RC exam.

**Are there any benefits of being a resident in Saskatchewan?**

\- The Resident Doctors of Saskatchewan contract applies to all residents
within the province and conveys multiple benefits:

     \- Three weeks off call prior to both Royal College Examinations

     \- One of the top paid salaries in the country

     \- Four weeks of vacation plus six days off over Christmas or New Years

     \- Full medical and dental coverage for you and your family

     \- Additional coverage for paramedical services including massage therapy

\- Affordable housing and rental opportunities

\- Short commuting time

\- Beautiful summers full of events and festivals

\- An amazing culinary scene

\- Fantastic lakes and beaches throughout Saskatchewan - perfect for canoeing,
camping, and outdoor enthusiasts

**What type of fellowships are offered? (These are all in Saskatoon)**

\- General Internal Medicine

\- Cardiology

\- Respiratory

\- Rheumatology

\- Nephrology

\- Medical Oncology

**How many residents are in the program currently?**

\- The Saskatoon site accepts 18 residents on average into the program each
year

\- The Regina site accepts 6 residents on average into the program each year

\- Currently there are 75 residents within the program between the two sites

**Who can I speak with to gain a resident perspective of the program?**

\- We are always excited to speak with prospective applicants and meet with
every elective student that visits our program







Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26839?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26839