#  University of Saskatchewan - Diagnostic Radiology - Saskatoon

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on August 30, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 5

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Jordan Russell  

Address Medical Imaging  
Royal University Hospital  
103 Hospital Drive  
Saskatoon SK , Saskatchewan, S7N 0W8  

Work  (306) 655-2390

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Diagnostic Radiology
](http://medicine.usask.ca/department/clinical/medical-
imaging.php#ResidencyProgram)  
[ Explore the Diagnostic Radiology program at the U of S
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VLydURGEe9c)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Amanda O'Leary

Title: Senior Program Administrator

Email: amanda.oleary@usask.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Applicants are responsible for reviewing the [University of Saskatchewan
Policies for the R-1 Match](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/saskatchewan/) to determine if they meet all
requirements and eligibility criteria. Failure to meet or provide proof of any
of the stated requirements or documents may result in an applicant’s file not
being reviewed or ranked.

**Casper Test**  
All applicants must complete the Casper test. Please refer to the Examinations
section for more information.

**Licensing  
** Matched applicants must be eligible for an educational register license
with the [College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Registration___Licensure/web/Applicants/Licensure/Registration_and_Licensure_Landing.aspx?hkey=75b022f8-df64-4f34-8e2a-a09bea881787)
(CPSS) for a July 1st start date and must maintain eligibility for an
educational register license throughout their entire training program. Matched
applicants who are graduating in the spring will need to provide a copy of
their medical degree/diploma to the PGME office and the College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Saskatchewan (CPSS) prior to the start of residency training.
Any delays in providing all required documentation to CPSS may result in the
following:

  * delay in issuance of an educational register license and a delay in start of postgraduate training beyond July 1st
  * release from CaRMS match contract

**Applicants completing medical education at the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)**  are
required to submit proof of English language proficiency before the rank order
deadline to demonstrate they meet CPSS requirements. More information is
available under Supporting Documentation-Language Proficiency.

**NOTE:**  Applicants who are considering a delay to their convocation date
must be aware that a medical degree cannot be issued to a student until they
have convocated. CPSS bylaws require that new residents must have received
their medical degree prior to the commencement of residency training. Choosing
to delay convocation will affect a matched applicant’s ability to commence
their residency training program in Saskatchewan on July 1. Please refer to
the [U of S CaRMS Deferral Policy](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/carms-
deferral-of-training-start-date---match-violation-release-from-
match.php#relatedForms) for additional information.

**Credentialing**  
In order to commence and continue in Postgraduate Medical Education training
programs, matched applicants must be eligible for and maintain privileges
within the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) as determined by their
credentialing process. The Saskatchewan Health Authority requires successful
applicants to submit immunization records and a current criminal record check
as part of their pre-resident application for appointment. Applicants with
criminal records will be considered on a case by case basis by the College of
Medicine in consultation with the Health Authority.

Any delays in providing all required documentation to the Saskatchewan Health
Authority may result in a delay in the start of postgraduate training beyond
July 1st.

**Resident Boot Camp  
** All matched applicants must attend a mandatory three-day Resident Boot Camp
scheduled for late June. The purpose of the Boot Camp is to provide additional
support to trainees as they transition to residency by introducing and
consolidating baseline skills and knowledge needed to flourish during their
residency years. The program will include interactive case-based and hands-on
practice sessions. Stipends will be provided to trainees.

Attendance is required and absences are only permitted in exceptional
circumstances, with prior approval of PGME.

**Advanced Cardiac Life Support  
** Matched applicants are required to provide proof of ACLS certification
(current as of July 1, 2025) to the PGME office prior to starting their
training program. The ACLS course must be endorsed by the Heart and Stroke
Foundation of Canada and/or the American Heart Association. ACLS training that
is not certified by these two organizations and/or is completed entirely
through an online course will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for
all costs associated with obtaining ACLS certification.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

All applicants must be Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents at the time of
application and must submit a notarized/certified photocopy of one of the
accepted citizenship documents.

Proof of citizenship must be current at the time of application and expired
documents will not be accepted.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum of 7.0 in each of the components

**Language assessment document accepted:**

  1. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on paper at a test venue
  2. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on a computer at a test venue
  3. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine at Home

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum grade of B

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of 9 in all sections

Applicants may be required to provide proof of proficiency in the English
language to meet licensing requirements of the [College of Physicians and
Surgeons (CPSS) of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Licensure/Requirements_Content/English_Language_Proficiency.aspx).

Applicants who graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States,
where English is the language of instruction **are not**  required to submit
proof of English language proficiency.

**Canadian applicants with medical education from the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)  are required
**to meet the English language proficiency requirements of the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan and must complete one of the language
exams listed above.

Applicants who are required to complete a language exam must submit a valid
test score in their CaRMS application **by the deadline for submission and
assignment of applications and documents.** Applicants who do not provide
acceptable proof of language proficiency, if required, will not be ranked.

Applicants must meet all of the criteria in one of the IELTS, OET or CELPIP
examinations. Please note that results from examinations cannot be combined,
unless the testing institution offers a sub-test.  
NOTE: Only OET offers sub-tests. CPSS will accept sub-tests obtained within
the same 24-month period as the original OET exam was sat.

Please direct any questions about language requirements to
[della.toews@usask.ca](mailto:della.toews@usask.ca). Applicants should not
contact CPSS directly about their eligibility for licensure.

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

It is preferred that reference letters be written by physicians who have
worked with the applicant for enough time to adequately assess and comment on
the applicant's skills or research projects, if applicable.

Reference letters should attest to applicant's interest and proficiency in the
specialty, as well as comment on interpersonal skills, communication, work
ethic, maturity, and empathy. References from preceptors with extensive
knowledge of the candidate are preferred, regardless of the specialty.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

A personal letter is required which should be less than 500 words. The letter
must describe you, your interests, your abilities, your goals, and your
reasons for applying to Diagnostic Radiology at the University of
Saskatchewan.

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Optional - will be reviewed

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held on January 20th and
21st, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will be virtual for the
2025 R-1 match and will be held via videoconference. More information will be
provided at the time of interview offer.  
  
There will be Q&A session with the residents and a virtual video in lieu of
site visit and tour.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

\- An acceptable academic record.

\- Candidates should have a proven interest in our specialty, typically shown
by previous electives/research in the area.  
  
\- Reference letters should attest to applicant's interest and proficiency in
the specialty as well as comment on interpersonal skills, communication, work
ethic, maturity and empathy. Reference letters from preceptors with extensive
knowledge of the candidate are preferred, regardless of the specialty.  
  
\- Demonstration of the characteristics outlined above in the interview or by
other means such as extra curricular activities.

## Program goals

Upon completion of training, the resident will be competent to function as a
general consultant in Diagnostic Radiology. Residents will gain the ability to
supervise, advise on, and perform imaging procedures to such a level of
competence, and across a broad range of medical practice, so as to function as
a consultant for referring physicians.

Knowledge, communication and technical skills are the three pillars upon which
a radiological career is built, and all are dependent on the acquisition of an
attitude towards the practice of medicine that recognizes both the need to
establish a habit of continuous learning and the importance of promoting a
team approach to the provision of imaging services.

Residents must demonstrate the requisite knowledge, skills, and attitudes for
effective patient-centered care and service to a diverse population. In all
aspects of specialist practice, the graduate must be able to address ethical
issues and issues of gender, age, culture, and ethnicity in a professional
manner.

## Selection process goals

Candidates should have a proven interest in our specialty, typically shown by
previous clinical electives and/or research in the area.

Proven proficiency in the specialty as well as interpersonal skills,
communication, work ethic, maturity and empathy.

Proven strong CanMEDS roles, as demonstrated on MSPR, CV, Research, Clinical
Electives, and Reference letters.

Applicants who have demonstrated the ability to learn and develop as competent
radiologists, interact and communicate in a team environment, and work
effectively within a health care team.

## File review process

Review team composition : Program Director, Other Faculty members, Chief
Residents and other resident representatives

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Content, Research, Publications, and Electives, as well as extra curricular activities and interests.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Electives and relevance to Speciality.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  All applicants must complete a CASPer exam to be eligible for consideration.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Demonstrated skills as relevant to communication, collaboration, leadership, and mentoring.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Effective decision making.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  CanMEDS roles strengths.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in Speciality and program/location.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Communication, collaboration, and leadership.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research interests and participation, as well as publications, if any.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Strong academic performance.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Demonstrate ability to work effectively within a health care team to achieve optimal patient care.   
Collegiality |  Behaviour, attidude and aptitude to work with other Rads, residents and health care professionals.   
Communication skills |  Effectively facilitate and develop Physician-patient rapport and relationships.   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrate ability enhance health care.   
Interest in the discipline |  Show interest and ability to develop key competencies in Radiology as a profession.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated specific interest in the U of S program. Understand strengths and weaknesses of the program and city.   
Leadership skills |  Involvement in CQI, development of best practices, and decision-making regarding sustainable practices.   
Professionalism |  Interaction and communication with Rads, residents, PD and administrative staff.   
Scholarly activities |  Demonstrate interest and commitment to lifelong learning.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Quick Facts**

\- Academic radiologists are distributed among urban and rural centres in
Saskatchewan and trainees may be able to join for off-site experiences. This
is handled on a case-by-case basis through discussions with the Postgraduate
Education Committee. We have been very open to electives proposed by the
residents.

\- Ratios of faculty to residents varies by location, but generally within
Saskatoon the ratio is 2:1 at all training sites.

-The program includes weekly academic half day for which the residents are excused from clinical duties. All PGY 2-5 residents are expected to attend these training sessions. PGY1 residents are encouraged to attend the lectures based on availability from their off service rotations.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Medical Imaging Program at the university of Saskatchewan has enrolled
Competence By Design (CBD) training since July 1st, 2022 as per Royal College
of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada guidelines/requirements.**  

Diagnostic Radiology curriculum is composed of four stages:

**1-Transition to discipline (TTD) stage, (10 blocks/rotations).**

During transition to discipline stage, the residents will learn and become
competent in the following:  

  * Navigating information systems used in Diagnostic Radiology 
  * Using the dictation system  
  * Recognizing normal anatomy in radiography and CT imaging  
  * Begin to learn about protocolling radiology studies and department workflow
  * Identifying and assessing unstable patients, providing initial management, and obtaining help  
  * Assessing patients with common medical or surgical presentations 
  * Working effectively as a member of the inter-professional team 

TTD stage represents a broad clinical experience. The current TTD stage
rotations include but are not limited to: Emergency Medicine, Internal
Medicine (including Neurology and other subspecialties), Surgery (including
Neurosurgery and other subspecialties), Obstetrics, and Paediatrics. Residents
will spend 1 block in the Radiology Department during this stage.

**2- Foundations stage (8  blocks/rotations).**

During Foundations stage, the residents will learn and become competent in the
following:

  * Recognizing normal radiologic anatomy and its variants
  * Acquiring standard images using ultrasonography; ultrasound scanning blocks are completed both in hospital and in clinic settings to broaden exposure to different exam types
  * Mastering protocolling requests for medical imaging for patients with acute and common presentations
  * Applying a systematic search pattern to the analysis of medical imaging studies
  * Detecting acute and common abnormalities on imaging studies
  * Generating a differential diagnosis for patients with acute and common findings
  * Communicating critical findings of medical imaging studies
  * Providing reports for acute and common findings of medical imaging studies

During Foundations stage, the residents will rotate through the radiology
department mainly at the Royal University Hospital and will be exposed to more
in depth radiology knowledge and pathology. Training will focus heavily on
call preparation.

**3- Core stage (41 blocks/rotations).**

During core stage, the residents will learn and become competent in the
following:

  * Interpreting diagnostic radiology imaging studies
  * Providing reports that guide patient management
  * Planning and performing invasive image-guided procedures
  * Acquiring standard images using fluoroscopy
  * Assessing, investigating and optimizing the quality of imaging studies
  * Advising physicians and other health care providers on the selection and timing of diagnostic radiology studies and procedures
  * Protocolling requests for medical imaging
  * Discussing imaging findings with patients and their families
  * Participating in interdisciplinary rounds

Rotation schedule is established based on Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Canada requirements for training in Diagnostic Imaging. Our
residency program emphasizes sound training in general diagnostic imaging.
Core rotations allow the residents to gain graded responsibility in each area
as well as taking on an increasing consultative and teaching role.

Imaging resources throughout the province of Saskatchewan may be utilized, but
the majority of training is obtained at the Royal University, Saskatoon City,
St. Paul's, and Jim Pattison Children’s Hospitals in Saskatoon. These
hospitals house 4 MRI magnets (including one 3Tesla magnet), 5 multi-detector
CTs, 14 Ultrasound units, and multiple X-ray and Fluoroscopy units. There is
an active interventional radiology program in Saskatoon. There are two biplane
angiography units as well as a brand new state of the art angiography suite at
the Royal University Hospital and a modern Siemens angiography suite at St
Paul's Hospital.

Mammography training is obtained at City Hospital as well as private radiology
clinics affiliated with the University of Saskatchewan. Obstetrical ultrasound
is largely taught in the clinic setting with a new senior MFM rotation during
which residents are exposed to more acute care in obstetrics and advanced
imaging of fetal anomalies. There is a new state of the art PET-CT Unit on-
site at the Royal University Hospital.  

Hospital teaching sites are fully Integrated with PACS (picture archiving and
communication system), Voice Recognition systems, and RIS (Radiology
Information System).

Jim Pattison Children’s Hospital offers state-of-the-art radiology service and
facilities for children, mothers and families from across Saskatchewan. This
includes new Emergency department equipped with state of the art multi
detector CT and 2 Ultrasound rooms, as well X-ray and Fluoroscopy units.

Elective attendance at the four-week Radiologic Pathology Correlation Course,
AIRP (American Institute for Radiologic Pathology) is encouraged. Elective
experiences are also available at affiliated sites in Saskatoon and Regina,
where academic radiologists participate in community-based radiology.

**4-  Transition To Practice (TTP) stage (6 blocks/roations).**

During transition to practice stage, the residents will learn and become
competent in the following:

  * Managing a radiology service
  * Developing plans for patients when there is uncertainty in diagnosis and/or management
  * Contributing expertise in interdisciplinary rounds
  * Conducting scholarly work relevant to Diagnostic Radiology
  * Planning and completing personalized training experiences aligned with career plans and/or specific learning needs

Rotation schedule is established based on Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Canada requirements for training in Diagnostic Imaging. Our
residency program emphasizes sound training in general diagnostic imaging. The
TTP rotations allow residents to become competent as consultant radiologists,
ready to start practice as general radiologists or start fellowship programs.

Imaging resources throughout the province of Saskatchewan may be utilized, but
the majority of training is obtained at the Royal University, Saskatoon City,
St. Paul's, and Jim Pattison Children’s Hospitals in Saskatoon. These
hospitals house 4 MRI magnets (including one 3Tesla magnet), 5 multi-detector
CTs, 14 Ultrasound units, and multiple X-ray and Fluoroscopy units. There is
an active interventional radiology program in Saskatoon. There are two biplane
angiography units as well as a brand new state of the art angiography suite at
the Royal University Hospital and a modern Siemens angiography suite at St
Paul's Hospital.

Mammography training is obtained at City Hospital as well as private radiology
clinics affiliated with university of Saskatchewan. Obstetrical ultrasound is
largely taught in the clinic setting with a new senior MFM rotation during
which residents are exposed to more acute care in obstetrics and advanced
imaging of fetal anomalies. There is a new state of the art PET-CT Unit on-
site at the Royal University Hospital.  

Hospital teaching sites are fully Integrated with PACS (picture archiving and
communication system), Voice Recognition systems, and RIS (Radiology
Information System).

Jim Pattison Children’s Hospital offer state-of-the-art radiology service and
facilities for children, mothers and families from across Saskatchewan. This
includes new Emergency department equipped with state of the art multi
detector CT and 2 Ultrasound rooms, as well X-ray and Fluoroscopy units.

### Research

Residents are expected to complete two research projects during their five
years of training. A broad range of projects can be performed, ranging from
retrospective reviews, to quality assurance, to prospective randomized
clinical trials. It is expected that a question will be raised and answered
through the process of research. If it is felt to be appropriate, presentation
of materials at National or International conferences would be beneficial to
the resident and supported by the department. Presentation at Resident
Research Day is mandatory, but additional presentations are voluntary. All
Residents are expected to attend research day.

Funding is available to travel and present at a conference. Additional
funding/awards for research are available to support resident research
projects through the Vice Dean Research's office.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Saskatoon Hospitals**

[Royal University
Hospital](https://www.saskatoonhealthregion.ca/locations_services/locations/ruh
"Royal University Hospital")

[Saskatoon City
Hospital](https://www.saskatoonhealthregion.ca/locations_services/locations/sch
"Saskatoon City Hospital")

[St. Paul's
Hospital](https://www.saskatoonhealthregion.ca/locations_services/locations/sph
"St. Paul's Hospital")

[Jim Pattison Children’s Hospital](https://pattisonchildrens.ca/the-
hospital/about-us/)

**Private Radiology clinics affiliated with the University of Saskatchewan**

[Saskatoon Medical Imaging Clinic](http://saskatoonmedicalimaging.ca
"Saskatoon Medical Imaging Clinic")

[Saskatoon Wall Street Clinic](http://www.saskradiology.ca/saskatoon-ws.html)

**Additional Resources**

In addition to PACS (picture archiving and communication system) stations
fully integrated with Voice Recognition system and RIS (Radiology Information
System), several computers are available for use by residents. Residents are
provided access to e-mail as well as the University Library and journal
resources. The Hospital Radiology Information System (RIS) is linked to
Intranet and Internet which is accessible via all review stations and smart
phones.

Residents have complete access to web-based medical journals , Statdx and
other radiology teaching resources.

### **Quick Facts**

\- Academic radiologists are distributed among urban and rural centres in
Saskatchewan and trainees may be able to join for off-site experiences. This
is handled on a case-by-case basis through discussions with the Postgraduate
Education Committee. We have been very open to electives proposed by the
residents.

\- Ratio of faculty to residents varies by location, but generally within
Saskatoon the ratio is 2:1 at all training sites.

\- There is a weekly academic half day for which the residents are excused
from clinical duties.

### **Distributive Learning at the University of Saskatchewan**

The College of Medicine, while physically located in Saskatoon, is a
provincial resource in scope and in practice. Postgraduate Medical Education
at the University of Saskatchewan takes seriously its role in supporting
quality health care for all people of the Province. This means training
physicians to meet the needs of not only urban populations, but also those of
rural and remote populations. In so doing, the College of Medicine has
developed, and continues to develop, rotations in Regina and other
communities. These rotations are designed to provide educational experiences
to enhance the resident's knowledge and skills and take maximum advantage of
unique educational opportunities in diverse communities. All postgraduate
programs are expected to develop and incorporate into their curriculum,
rotations in communities other than Saskatoon. The manner in which each
program does this is not strictly prescribed by the College of Medicine, but
is determined by the Residency Training Committee, taking into consideration
the needs of their residents, and the opportunities available in other
locations. These rotations continue to evolve as we seek to build stronger and
better programs.

Support is available for out of town rotations. The exact nature of this
support varies with location and program. The communities involved, individual
programs, the College of Medicine, and the Ministry of Health work
collaboratively to ensure residents are not financially disadvantaged by the
need to relocate.

Temporary housing is available at no expense to residents who leave their home
site to complete short term mandatory rotations at distributed sites in
Saskatchewan. Please review the [PGME Housing
Guidelines](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/pgme-housing-guidelines-pgme-
housing-application-for-short-term-mandatory-rotation.php#relatedForms) for
more detailed information.

While all residents are encouraged to take advantage of educational
experiences in other communities to ensure a well-rounded education, the
amount and format of such time is determined by the individual resident in
consultation with the program committee and PGME.

* * *

# Additional Information

We offer a collegial work environment and the relationships among residents
and faculty are strong. Many former residents are hired as staff at our
institution following residency/fellowship training. There is excellent
resident representation on the Residency Program Committee and we are always
open to feedback from our residents.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26355?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26355