#  Memorial University of Newfoundland - Pediatrics - St. John's  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on February 19, 2025

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 7

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Lisa Goodyear  

Address Discipline of Pediatrics  
Medical Education Office  
Room 2J061A  
Janeway Child Health And Rehabilitation Centre, Newfoundland and Labrador  

Work  709-777-4699

Work  709-777-4023

Websites of Interest [ Discipline of Pediatrics
](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/pediatrics/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Lisa Goodyear

Title: Pediatric Residency Program Director

Email: lisa.goodyear@nlhealthservices.ca

  

Name: Dr. Laura Vivian

Title: Assistant Program Director

Email: laura.vivian@nlhealthservices.ca

  

Name: Mrs. Blair Brush

Title: Academic Program Administrator

Email: pedsresidency@mun.ca

Phone: 709-777-4699

  

Name: Mrs. Elaine Hendry

Title: Academic Program Assistant

Email: peds@med.mun.ca

Phone: 709-777-4118

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Accreditation**

The pediatrics residency program was given the status of Accredited Program by
the Royal College in November 2022.



**Interviews/Eligibility**

Virtual interviews will be taking place on February 3, 4, 5 and 6, 2025.

Please review Memorial University's [Provincial
Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/) and admission requirements for postgraduate medical education.



**Orientation**

Applicants who match to Memorial University must attend orientation during the
last week of June. Details will be provided in March 2025.

* * *

# Return of Service

CMGs/USMGs:

No return of service (RoS) is required for CMG seats in the first iteration.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Exemption to English language proficiency testing**

  * If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States where English is the language of instruction, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.  
    * **If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States which provides training in multiple language streams, please self-identify which stream you graduated from, e.g. English-Stream, French-Stream, Spanish-Stream, etc.**

**Who is required to provide English Language Proficiency?**

  * If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States where the language of instruction is not in English (e.g. French) you are required to provide proof of proficiency in the English language. It is important to note that this requirement extends to all such applicants, regardless of whether other secondary/post-secondary education took place in English and regardless of citizenship.

The accepted English language proficiency exams, and the required scores, are
as follows:

  * International English Language Testing System - Academic (IELTS-Academic), with a minimum score of **7**  in each of the components in the same sitting;
  * Occupational English Test - Medicine (OET-Medicine), with a minimum grade of **B**  in each of the four subsets in the same sitting;
  * Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program Test - General (CELPIP-General), with a minimum score of **9**  in each of the four skills in the same sitting.

Exams must be dated within 24 months of the residency start date (July 1).
Results must be available by the CaRMS document review deadline.

Examinations

Optional - will be reviewed

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report
* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

If applicable.



Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required; they should be written by attending
staff physicians or preceptors.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1500

  

Your personal letter should highlight why you are a good candidate for our
pediatric residency program. Emphasis on choice of pediatrics, why you would
like to train in our program and live in Newfoundland is advised. The ability
to concisely communicate your thoughts and ideas is appreciated.

Custom Résumé / CV

Memorial Declaration for Interruptions

ALL applicants must submit the [Declaration of Interruptions
](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/pgme/current-learners/forms/)form with their
application.

Consent for disclosure

ALL applicants must submit the [Consent to Disclose
](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/pgme/current-learners/forms/)form with their
application.  

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

If available.

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

If applicable, order from your Registrar's Office.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 3, 2025
  * February 4, 2025
  * February 6, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Virtual interviews will be offered to
interested candidates based on selection criteria. Virtual interviews will
take place on Feb 3, 4, 5 and 6, 2025.  
  
The email notification for interviews will be sent on January 13 at noon EST.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The interview process consists of two
meetings:  
  

  * with the program director, assistant program director and/or member of CaRMS selection ccommittee and one faculty member
  * with the residents (2 residents including at least one senior resident)

  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Please see descriptors below.

## Program goals

The mission of the pediatric program at Memorial University is to provide
trainees with the necessary knowledge and skills to work as a general
pediatrician or to prepare them for further pediatric subspecialty training.

  
The overall goal of the program is to help residents develop competency, as
identified by the seven CanMEDS roles, as well as achieve the competencies for
specialty training in pediatrics as outlined by the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

Our goals are to:

  
1\. To provide diverse clinical exposures in a variety of environments, in
combination with an academic curriculum, to give residents the necessary
knowledge and skills to work as a general pediatrician or to prepare for
further pediatric subspecialty training.

2\. To foster opportunities to develop teaching skills and knowledge so as to
enable residents to participate in medical education.

3\. To understand research principles and apply these to develop and complete
a scholarly project.

4\. To understand the principles and develop the skills required to work with
the interdisciplinary team which provides care for patients.

5\. To develop management and leadership skills and apply these skills in
graded clinical responsibility.

6\. To develop an understanding of, and a commitment to, lifelong learning
pediatric medicine.

7\. To develop the ability to critically appraise medical research and
literature, and apply this to clinical practice.

8\. To understand the role of the pediatrician as an advocate for the needs of
their patients, their families, and society as a whole, and develop the skills
needed to advocate effectively.

9\. To provide a positive learning environment where residents can develop an
awareness and understanding of professional behavior, and apply it to daily
practice.

10\. To emphasize the importance of physician wellness and help develop the
resiliency skills necessary for a successful career.

## Selection process goals

At Memorial University we are looking for candidates who have a genuine
committment to pediatrics who would thrive in a medium-sized residency
program. Residents who train in our program should value enhanced opportunites
for direct patient care experiences, as well as early transition to graded
responsibilty, within a supported environment.

Our ideal candidates should recognize the value of educational experiences
that exist in community hospital settings and be enthusiastic about
undertaking rotations in rural areas. Our curriculum includes community
general pediatric rotations in each of the three core years of training, with
a community junior attending block in year four.

We are seeking residents with excellent communication skills who are able to
work well in team settings. We value the collegial atmosphere that exists
amongst our residents and faculty; residents in our program are expected to
contribute to, and be supportive of, a positive learning environment. The
ability to accept and respond to feedback is an important part of this
relationship.

An interest in scholarly inquiry is valued. This can be shown through
research, advocacy projects or patient education initiatives.

Candidates must have demonstrated professional conduct. Gaps in training must
be fully explained.

## File review process

Review team composition : Files are reviewed by faculty members and residents
who are selected by the CaRMS selection committee. Each file is reviewed by
two individuals. Interview decisions are made by the CaRMS selection committee
using a scoring system.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Demonstration of an active academic life as well as involvement in non-academic activites and interests. Experiences which include successful interactions with children are valued.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Used to evaluate genuine interest in pediatrics   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Demonstration of interests outisde of the academic environment. Awareness of the importance of work-life balance is emphasized.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership experience within and outside of the academic environment is considered.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  We use this to determine unexplained gaps in training or failed rotations. Professionalism concerns are also considered.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Used to evaluate genuine interest in pediatrics and knowledge of our program's unique qualities   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Ability to work in a team, accept feedback, professionalism   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest and experience in research particularly in pediatrics   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Successful completion of MD program   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: No preference for electives taken

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Able to work effectively in multidisciplinary teams   
Collegiality |  Ability to work well and be supportive of colleagues   
Communication skills |  Ability to communicate information and ideas effectively to members of the interdisciplinary medical team as well as to patients and families   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrate an awareness and interest in public health issues effecting children   
Interest in the discipline |  Genuine interest in pediatrics and awareness of the unique health care needs of children and their families   
Interest in the program |  Candidates should value training in a medium size residency program where early transition to supported independence is emphasized   
Leadership skills |  Demonstration of leadership through both academic and extracurricular activities   
Professionalism |  Able to accept feedback and interact respectfully with others   
Scholarly activities |  Genuine interest in lifelong learning and critical appraisal of research   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The pediatric residency program at Memorial University of Newfoundland offers
the opportunity to live in a vibrant east coast city, while attaining
excellent pediatric training in a collegial and supportive academic
environment.

Our moderately-sized pediatric residency program offers distinct advantages to
learners; because we have no subspecialty residents, our pediatric residents
have an early transition to independence within a supportive environment. Our
program size also provides excellent opportunities for direct patient care
experiences for learners in all levels of training. We have an excellent
faculty to resident ratio which facilitates individualized learning and
enhanced opportunities for observation and feedback. The inclusion of
community rotations in all four years of training provides residents with the
opportunity to experience the full breadth general pediatrics.

Our main training site is the Janeway Children’s Hospital and Rehabilitation
Centre located in St. John’s - one of the oldest cities in North America. St.
John’s provides amazing access to outdoor activities from hiking and biking to
iceberg and whale watching. Our city also has an exceptional music and food
scene, featuring award winning chefs and restaurants.

Of course, our east coast hospitality is renowned, which also makes St. John’s
a lovely place to live, work and study.  

Stay tuned for the dates of our upcoming virtual information sessions on
[CanPREPP](https://canprepp.ca/)

To learn more exciting information about our program follow us on
Instagram@munpeds.







* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Residents receive 4 weeks of vacation per year

**  PGY 1 (13 Blocks)**  
---  
  |  Clinical Teaching Unit (CTU) – 8 weeks Newborn Medicine - 4 weeks  NICU – 4 weeks  Pediatric Emergency Medicine – 4 weeks Ambulatory Pediatrics – 8 weeks Child Development – 4 weeks Subspecialty Selective – 8 weeks (Pediatric Cardiology, Genetics, Hematology/Oncology, Neurology, Endocrinology & GI/Rheumatology) Adolescent Medicine – 4 weeks Community – 4 weeks Enrichment Block - 4 weeks  
  
**PGY 2 (13 Blocks)**  
---  
  |  NICU – 4 weeks PICU – 8 weeks Clinical Teaching Unit (CTU) – 8 weeks Subspecialty Selective – 4 weeks (Pediatric Cardiology, Genetics, Hematology/Oncology, Neurology, Endocrinology & GI/Rheumatology) Elective – 8 weeks (out-of-town/province) Pediatric Surgery – 4 weeks Psychiatry – 4 weeks Anesthesia – 2 weeks Research – 2 weeks Enrichment Block - 4 weeks Community Pediatrics - 4 weeks  
  
  
  

**PGY 3  (13 Blocks)**  
---  
  |  NICU – 4 weeks PICU – 4 weeks Clinical Teaching Unit (CTU) – 8 weeks Pediatric Emergency Medicine – 4 weeks Elective – 4 weeks Ambulatory Pediatrics – 4 weeks Subspecialty Selective – 8 weeks (Pediatric Cardiology, Genetics, Hematology/Oncology, Neurology, Endocrinology & GI/Rheumatology) Child Development – 4 weeks Community Pediatrics - 4 weeks Medical Education – 2 weeks Newborn Pediatrics – 2 weeks Enrichment Block - 4 weeks  
  
**PGY 4  (13 Blocks)**  
---  
  |  Acute Care (PICU, NICU or ER) – 4 weeks Selective – 16 weeks (4 blocks) Elective – 12 weeks (3 blocks) Janeway Site Junior Attending – 8 weeks Learning and Behaviour - 4 weeks  Community Junior Attending - 4 weeks Enrichment Block - 4 weeks    
  
**_Research_**

Research is an active component of residents’ training. All residents are
required to complete a scholarly research project, during their residency, on
a topic of interest. There is also a series of academic half days scheduled
throughout the residency covering a range of research related topics. There is
a full month of protected time divided in two parts in second and third years.
Further research time can be scheduled during the third and fourth years of
residency. For those who are interested in training for both a clinical and an
academic career, there are a number of opportunities to further enhance a
resident’s research training and experience. Faculty members are quite open to
involving residents in existing programs of research. Added training is
available through the Canadian Child Health Clinician Scientist Program or
through the completion of a diploma or Master of Science in clinical
epidemiology, done concurrently with one’s residency. The department also
supports residents to present their work at national and international
conferences and at our annual Pediatric Residents Research Day.



**_Seminars_** _ _

Four hours per week are spent in an academic half-day which covers all
required competencies in a 3 year cycled curriculum. This is protected
teaching time. There are also multiple other academic rounds that occur on a
regularly scheduled basis including:

\- Subspecialty rounds

\- Team rounds

\- CPS rounds





* * *

# Training Sites

Resources:

Janeway Children's Health and Rehabilitation Centre

Health Sciences Centre

Western Memorial Regional Hospital

Central Newfoundland Regional Hospital

Residents may also complete rural rotations in New Brunswick and Labrador.



Residents have three electives during the three years of core pediatric
training. There are also elective experiences in the fourth year curriculum.

  * If a resident has a recognized supervisor, and the elective is pertinent to the specialty, this may be taken in Canada, the United States or internationally.

The ratio of faculty to residents is approximately 1:1

There is a mandatory rural community rotation in each of the three core years.
These are with community pediatricians in various sites in Newfoundland and
Labrador, and New Brunswick. Accommodation is provided for these rural
rotations in accordance with housing policies of the Faculty of Medicine.
Transportation for core rotations is reimbursed as per the Eastern Health
Guidelines for Travel Reimbursement. Opportunities may exist to participate in
community rotations elsewhere in Canada, subject to approval.

The average patient load depends on the rotation and time of year. Over the
course of the residency, each resident is involved in the care of a large
number of patients. CTUs have at least two residents and clinical clerks. The
senior residents assume a supervisory role.

Many of the subspecialty rotations accept one resident at a time, allowing for
enhanced hands-on experience. Because we are a moderately-sized program, our
residents are exposed to a wide variety and volume of clinical experiences.
The inclusion of mandatory rural community rotations in our core curriculum
allows for a unique opportunity to experience multiple facets of general
pediatrics.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26901?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26901