#  Memorial University of Newfoundland - Anesthesiology - St. John's

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on February 04, 2025

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Sonia Sampson  

Address Discipline of Anesthesia, Room 1320  
Health Sciences Centre  
300 Prince Philip Drive  
St. John's, NL , Newfoundland and Labrador, A1B 3V6  

Work  (709) 864-3611

Websites of Interest [ Discipline of Anesthesia, Faculty of Medicine
](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/anesthesia/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Sonia Sampson

Title: Program Director

Email: sonia_dee@yahoo.com

Phone: (709) 864-3611

  

Name: Stephanie Herlidan

Title: Academic Program Administrator

Email: sherlidan@mun.ca

Phone: (709) 864-3611

  

* * *

# Important Information

The Memorial University Anesthesiology Training Program underwent an
accreditation review by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
in September 2016.   The status of accreditation for the program is for "Full
Approval".

Please review Memorial University's [Provincial
Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/) and admission requirements for postgraduate medical education.



**Orientation**

Applicants who match to Memorial University must attend orientation during the
last week of June. Details will be provided in March 2025.

* * *

# Return of Service

CMGs/USMGs:

No return of service (RoS) is required for CMG seats in the first iteration.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

For the application process, documents do not need to be notarized/certified;
however, if accepted, applicants must provide notarized/certified documents at
that time.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Exemption to English language proficiency testing**

  * If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States where English is the language of instruction, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.  
    * **If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States which provides training in multiple language streams, please self-identify which stream you graduated from, e.g. English-Stream, French-Stream, Spanish-Stream, etc.**

**Who is required to provide English Language Proficiency?**

  * If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States where the language of instruction is not in English (e.g. French) you are required to provide proof of proficiency in the English language. It is important to note that this requirement extends to all such applicants, regardless of whether other secondary/post-secondary education took place in English and regardless of citizenship.

The accepted English language proficiency exams, and the required scores, are
as follows:

  * International English Language Testing System - Academic (IELTS-Academic), with a minimum score of **7**  in each of the components in the same sitting;
  * Occupational English Test - Medicine (OET-Medicine), with a minimum grade of **B**  in each of the four subsets in the same sitting;
  * Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program Test - General (CELPIP-General), with a minimum score of **9**  in each of the four skills in the same sitting.

Exams must be dated within 24 months of the residency start date (July 1).
Results must be available by the CaRMS document review deadline.

Examinations

Optional - will be reviewed

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

Please submit results if applicable.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

References should be from consultant staff with **actual clinical** exposure
to the applicant. Three letters of reference are required and no more than
three will be reviewed. References will be accepted until November 28, 2024.

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Memorial Declaration for Interruptions

ALL applicants must submit the [Declaration of Interruptions
](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/pgme/current-learners/forms/)form with their
application.

Consent for disclosure

ALL applicants must submit the [Consent to
Disclose](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/pgme/current-learners/forms/) form with
their application.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Please provide a letter with a maximum of 500 words including the following:

1.  Why do you want to do anesthesia?

2.  Why do you want to come to Memorial University?

3.  What qualities do you feel you posses which will make you a good fit for our program?

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Conditionally required

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Details regarding interview dates:  
  
Interviews for the 1st iteration will be held on January 20 and 21, 2025.
Interviews will be program initiated in the majority of cases but candidates
may email the office at [anesresidency@mun.ca](mailto:anesresidency@mun.ca) to
arrange an appointment. We can offer some flexibility in certain cases.
Requests for an alternative date should be made as early as possible.  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The Interview Committee consists of
8-10 members of the discipline including residents.  Interviews will be
virtual and will be 20-30 minutes in length.  In lieu of traditional in-person
tours and social events, we will be providing a mix of multimedia and
streaming events.  Details will be provided to those candidates selected for
interview.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

\- Acceptable academic record and academic potential

\- Interest in the specialty

\- Information on clinical ability from reference letters

\- Potential for performance under stress

\- Communication skills

\- Impression at the interview

## Program goals

To train competent specialist anesthesiologists who are capable of providing a
full range of anesthesia services for all age groups in varied clinical
situations.  We seek to produce anesthesiologist who exhibit diverse skills
through a program focusing on early independence, strong clinical exposure,
intensive simulation and the acquisition of advanced knowledge and skills.  We
aim to foster interests in scientific inquiry and study through an
individualized and flexible research curriculum.  Further, we strive to train
individuals who will work well across disciplines and professions to be
leaders and ambassadors of our specialty through our focus on community and
collegiality.

## Selection process goals

To meet the goals of our program we are seeking applicants who demonstrate:

\- A clear interest in Anesthesiology

\- A basic understanding of the nature of the specialty (not necessarily
specific clinical knowledge)

\- A performance record reflecting abilities to achieve the rigorous academic
requirements of the program

\- An ability to communicate and work well in diverse groups

\- An ability to cope with a variety of stressors and life circumstances

\- Adaptability

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team consists primarily of full and part
time anesthesia faculty as well as staff anesthesiologists with a keen
interest in residency education.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Diverse life experiences and high academic achievement.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Enough anesthesia experience to appreciate the specialty (not necessarily all anesthesia).   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  MCCQE Part 1 statement of results and supplemental information report will be reviewed (if results are available).   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Well rounded interests reflecting good work life balance.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  A demonstrated ability to work well in groups.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Sufficient academic achievement.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Descriptions reflecting truly interested and insightful applicants (with regards to anesthesia).   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  References reflecting high performance in clinical situations.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Evidence of some engagement in scholarly activities.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  High academic achievement.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Electives should demonstrate sufficent exposure in anesthesiology to ensure an
appropriate choice of specialty.  A broad exposure is looked at favourable
assuming the first requirement is met.  We recognize the challenges on
completing on-site electives and do not require this.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Past examples of successful group work.   
Collegiality |  Evidence of favourable inter-professional and disciplinary interactions.   
Communication skills |  Able to communicate well, both formally and informally.   
Health advocacy |  Understands the importance of ensuring adequate access to specialty-level care for all. In particular to rural and marginalized groups.   
Interest in the discipline |  Is able to express a genuine interest and understanding of the specialty.   
Interest in the program |  Has some understanding of our program.   
Leadership skills |  Examples of successful team work experiences. Evaluated as part of the examples of team-dynamics noted in personal letters/reference letters/CV etc.   
Professionalism |  Understands the value of professional behaviour and able to show how they have exhibited it.   
Scholarly activities |  Sufficient academic performance to ensure success with the academic demands of the program.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Anesthesia at Memorial**

The Anesthesia program at Memorial University is best characterized as a small
program that considers its sense of community, opportunities for sound
clinical experience beginning early in residency and its simulation program as
its strongest assets.  Resident training is intended to fulfill the career
aspirations of the individual resident, whether as an academic pursuing a
fellowship or as a community anesthesiologist.  There are faculty members
throughout the province of Newfoundland and Labrador and the province of New
Brunswick, allowing for clinical exposure that encompasses both rural
community and tertiary care subspecialty experience.  The faculty is very
supportive of residency education and maintains a status of full accreditation
by the Royal College in its most recent review in 2016.

Memorial provides a five year training program in Anesthesia whose elements
are based upon the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
Competency By Design (CBD) anesthesia program curriculum.

**Community Building**

**_Retreat_**

An annual resident retreat is held in the fall.  This is an event centred
around wellness; career and team building; financial education and
socialization and occurs at interesting venues outside of the working
environment.

**_Mentorship program_**

The mentorship program has been active for many years.  It is designed to
create long term relationships between resident and staff under an informal
framework of professional and personal guidance.  There are activities
arranged which help to foster stronger ties between residents and their
mentors, as well as help build the sense of community which we value so much
at Memorial.

The Wellness Committee Chair and the Residency Program Director both agree
with the principle that residency should not interrupt life, but become
coordinated with and integrated into life.  Resident wellness is a priority at
Memorial.

**_Communication_**

The _Anesthesia Message_  is a newsletter that outlines news about the
residency program and about the Discipline in general.

**_Committee involvement_**

There are two resident representatives, elected by their peers, on the
Residency Program Committee (RPC) and there is a resident representative on
each of the RPC subcommittees (research, simulation, etc.), giving them a real
voice in how the program is managed.

**_Social Life_**

St. John’s, the capital of Newfoundland and Labrador, is a vibrant city with a
long history and a thriving arts community.  We pride ourselves on hospitality
and a sense of community for those who “come from away”.  Memorial University
is one of the largest universities in Atlantic Canada and, as such, has world-
class facilities for students both in terms of facilities and programming.

The most important social element of our residency program is our close-knit
resident group.  A “home away from home.”

**Clinical Experience**

The clinical experience has been shaped to fit into the CBD model of residency
education: transition to discipline, foundations, core, and transition to
practice.  The accomplishment of the Entrustable Professional Activities
(EPAs) is facilitated through experiences in general surgery, orthopedic
surgery, plastic surgery, urological surgery, cardiovascular surgery, thoracic
surgery, neurosurgery, obstetrics and gynecology, pain management (acute and
chronic), pediatric anesthesia, regional anesthesia, otolaryngology,
ophthalmology, pre-anesthetic assessment clinic, and a community anesthesia
experience.  

We allow for rich experiences in adult and pediatric critical care as well as
anesthesia-related specialties of internal medicine.

Off-service rotations in internal medicine, general surgery and emergency
medicine are designed to allow residents to fulfill the pertinent EPAs and the
requirements laid out in the Anesthesia Training Experiences (ATE) document
published by the Royal College. This will include development of skills in EKG
interpretation, bronchoscopy, point-of-care ultrasound, transfusion medicine
and medical and surgical emergency assessment and care.  Residents will be
given opportunities to achieve certification in ACLS, ATLS, PALS and NRP.
There are opportunities to schedule electives outside the province.  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

It is anticipated that the majority of residents will complete all the
competencies within five years.

**Formal Academic Program**

**_Academic Half Day_**

The academic program is based on the National Curriculum for Anesthesia
Residency Training created by the Royal College Specialty Committee in 2014.
Our curriculum is designed in a unique seminar format with sessions devoted to
major anesthesia topics. These sessions are delivered during academic half-day
usually as didactic faculty/resident sessions that also include case-based
teaching. Sessions may also include faculty from other Disciplines, or be
designed as workshops or other formats. Resident simulation sessions occur
monthly as part of the current topic module. There are often resident-led
teaching sessions prior to the formal one. Residents in Core will have their
academic half-day extended to a full day approximately eight months prior to
the written exam now scheduled for the fall of the final residency year.

**_Simulation_**

The simulation program is run by faculty members with specialized simulation
training and fellowships with skills in developing original and innovative
scenarios that not only deal with rare critical events, but also other areas
such as team building across Disciplines and professions, and CanMeds roles.
Simulation sessions take place at the simulation centre at the Faculty of
Medicine, but can also take place _in situ_ in such places as the operating
room or labour and delivery. Simulation sessions are held monthly, and are
complementary to the module being taught in academic half-day. Feedback and
assessment are innovative and formative.  Anesthesia is a leader in simulation
at Memorial University.

**_Tuesday Morning Rounds_**

Resident presentations on current topics take place on Tuesday mornings
followed by challenging case rounds as well as morbidity and mortality. These
take place weekly from September to June. Resident presentations are broadcast
for the benefit of residents as well as anesthesiologists across the province.

**_Scholarly Anesthesiology Curriculum_**

The Scholarly Anesthesiology Curriculum is grounded in the CanMEDS 2015 that
as scholars, “physicians demonstrate a lifelong commitment to excellence in
practice through continuous learning and by teaching others, evaluating
evidence, and contributing to scholarship”. Key concepts in training needed to
support this commitment include practices of:

  1. Lifelong learning
  2. Teaching
  3. Evidence-informed decision making
  4. Research

Residents will fulfill the various requirements through participation in a
number of possibilities, such as journal club, development of a personal
learning plan through daily clinical feedback, presentations at rounds, a
research project, literature review and practice audit. Residents are expected
to complete the TCPS-2 Ethical Conduct for Research Module.

Participation in research is encouraged. The Anesthesia Research Committee
continues to support residents for the successful completion of the projects
they develop in first year. There will also be opportunities to do basic
science research, or to write systematic reviews or other articles worthy of
presentation or publication. The Discipline will fund certain travel and
registration costs for residents whose completed projects are accepted for
presentation at a major North American meeting. Funding for international
meetings is available. Residents will also be funded on one occasion for a
case report accepted at a major North American meeting. There is dedicated
time allocated to do research activities, which must be approved by both the
program director and research director.

Discipline Research Day is held biannually. Many of our residents have taken
advantage of travel and registration funding by having their case reports and
projects accepted at major meetings such as the American Society of
Anesthesiologists meeting, the Canadian Anesthesiologists’ Society meeting,
Royal College International Conference on Residency Education meeting and the
Association for Medical Education in Europe meeting.

**_Journal Club_**

To aid in the development of critical appraisal skills, journal club is held
from September to May, and residents will have opportunities to present
articles using a formal presentation style. Residents have the support of the
Anesthesia Research Committee in interpreting their papers should they require
help. The presentations are adjudicated to provide feedback.

**_Conference Leave_**

Funding is available for all residents to attend a yearly conference approved
by the program director. Conference leave is seven days per academic year. All
residents are encouraged to avail of this educational opportunity.

**_Learning Resources_**

In addition to the well-equipped electronic medical resources in the main
library, the residents have access to the internet and several on-line
journals in the Anesthesia departments in all sites in St. John’s. Electronic
Text books and journals are also available.

**_Feedback and Assessment_**

Residents will receive feedback using an application developed at Memorial
University which provides for the development of a personal learning plan. The
accomplishment of EPAs is facilitated by an easy-to-use assessment method that
intends to track progress graphically so that the resident can appreciate
progress visually. Competence is decided by an appointed Competence Committee
that meets regularly to assess resident progress. Formal practice oral
examinations are scheduled every year. Leading up to final examinations,
faculty members are scheduled weekly to provide practice oral examinations for
senior residents.

The academic day for residents completing Core and starting Transition to
Practice allows for the scheduling of tutorials and seminars with various
faculty members and other teaching staff, around topics of their choice.
Written examination preparation is organized by the Core residents, who tend
to study as a group, using each other and supportive faculty as resources for
answers to practice questions. All residents participate in the American AKT
examinations. Residents identified as having needs outside the scope of the
usual teaching program receive individualized help as they require.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Sites:**

Metro Training Sites:

\- Health Sciences Centre

\- Janeway Women’s and Children’s Health Centre

\- St. Clare's Mercy Hospital

Regional Training Sites:

\- Carbonear General Hospital, Carbonear

\- Central Newfoundland Regional Health Centre, Grand Falls-Windsor

\- James Paton Memorial Hospital, Gander

\- Western Memorial Regional Hospital, Corner Brook

\- Dr. Everett Chalmers Regional Hospital, Fredericton, NB

\- Saint John Regional Hospital, Saint John, NB



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27447?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27447