#  University of Manitoba - Ophthalmology - Winnipeg

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on November 13, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Andre Jastrzebski  

Address Ophthalmology  
Misericordia Health Centre  
M264-99 Cornish Avenue  
Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3C 1A2  

Work  204 788 8599

Work

Websites of Interest [ University of Manitoba - Ophthalmology
](http://umanitoba.ca/faculties/health_sciences/medicine/units/ophthalmology/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Cory Marquart

Title: Program Administrator

Email: ophthalmology@umanitoba.ca

Phone: 204-788-8599

204-782-5830

  

* * *

# Important Information

The University of Manitoba campuses are located on original lands of
Anishinaabeg, Cree, Oji-Cree, Dakota, and Dene peoples, and on the the
homeland of the Metis Nation.  The Department of Ophthalmology additionally
participates in clinical programs in Inuit communities.  We respect the
Treaties and Agreements that were made on these territories, we acknowledge
the harms and mistakes of the past, and we dedicate ourselves to move forward
in partnership with Indigenous communities in a spirit of reconcillation and
collaboration.



The **mandatory  **Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation takes place on
Thursday, June 26, 2025** .**

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

You are required to fulfill ALL of the most current Provincial Criteria for
Canadian Medical Graduates for Manitoba

The criteria can be found at:  <https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  300

Maximum :  500

  

This is the candidate's opportunity to tell the selection committee about
themselves. Candidates should submit a personal letter that gives the
selection committee a sense of their personality. It should include the
reasons for choosing ophthalmology as a career and why they feel that it would
suit them. The letter should also go into the candidate's interests outside of
medicine.

Custom Résumé / CV

Ophthalmological Report

A report from an ophthalmologist that documents the candidate's best corrected
acuities, colour vision and stereoacuity.

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

Candidates may submit abstracts of publications either accepted for print or
presented at a conference. Do not submit the entire paper.



Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All applications are reviewed the the CaRMs selection committee.  Multiple
reviewers review the applications and the choice of candidates for interview
is by consensus.  Important criteria include the personal letter, references,
electives, rotation evaluations and the Dean's letter/medical student
performance report.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025

Details regarding interview dates:  
  
There will be a Virtual Open House evening with Faculty and Residents
available to answer questions.  Date and time is to be determined. Contact the
Program Adminstrator ophthalmology@umanitoba.ca for information and/or to
register.  
  
2025 Interview date is Tuesday, January 21, 2024  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The interviews will be held virtually
as decided by CaRMS and PGME.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The Section of Ophthalmology at the University of Manitoba is committed to a
fair, equitable and transparent application process. We maintain the right to
choose the applicants who we feel are best suited to our residency training
program. The following criteria will be used as a baseline to determine who
will be considered for an interview. However, not all applicants whose file
meets our minimum criteria will be offered interviews; only the top candidates
will be selected.

  * A mature understanding of the nature of clinical ophthalmology practice and the length and challenges of training.

  * Scholarly achievement prior and subsequent to entering medicine.

  * Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.

  * Achievement in extracurricular activities with leadership experience.

  * A history of health advocacy, formal or informal will be looked upon favourably.

## Program goals

To provide a collegial, inclusive, clinical, and academic environment
conducive to learning. To provide excellent patient care.

At the completion of training, our graduates should be ready to enter
comprehensive practice or complete further subspecialty training. We endeavour
to train both academic and community ophthalmologists comfortable practicing
in both urban and/or rural settings.  We strive to be a world-class training
program.

## Selection process goals

To interview and select the best quality residents that fit within the culture
of and mission of our program to train the next generation of
ophthalmologists.

To provide a collegial, inclusive, clinical, and academic environment
conducive to learning. To provide excellent patient care.

At the completion of training, our graduates should be ready to enter
comprehensive practice or complete further subspecialty training. We endeavour
to train both academic and community ophthalmologists comfortable practicing
in both urban and/or rural settings.  We strive to be a world-class training
program.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team can consist of residents, staff
ophthalmologists, nursing staff, administrative staff, and members of the
community who are stakeholders in eye care (such as the Vision Loss
Rehabilitation Manitoba).

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Research, publications/presentations, clubs/societies memberships, electives, scholarships, awards, extracurricular activities (including volunteer work, advocacy, leadership, etc.)   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We encourage applicants to participate in a broad range of electives in addition to Ophthalmology.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Applicable examinations/grades   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of interests outside of medicine   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Applicable experiences   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Satisfactory record   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Motivation for choosing ophthalmology, writing skills   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Past performance, demonstrable and certifiable skills and traits   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Evidence of participation in research in any discipline   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Satisfactory academic record   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to be a team player   
Collegiality |  Ability to get along with others   
Communication skills |  Ability to effectively and efficiently communicate   
Health advocacy |  A history of health advocacy, formal or informal will be looked upon favourably   
Interest in the discipline |  Basic ophthalmology knowledge/ reasons for choosing/ experience   
Interest in the program |  an understanding/desire to understand the strengths of our department and in the merits of living and working in Manitoba   
Leadership skills |  Capacity to lead a team/evidence of prior leadership experiences   
Professionalism |  Reliability/responsibility/maturity   
Scholarly activities |  Academic record, previous degrees earned, previous academic experiences including research   
Other interview component(s) |  We reserve the right to evaluate other components such as manual dexterity in the future   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  Though the above are not routinely used, all known information about
a candidate may factor into their overall rank.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  Not a proper fit for program  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * Enthusiastic, collegial, and friendly teaching staff with full subspecialty representation

  * High staff-to-resident teaching ratio ensures excellent 1-on-1 teaching experiences

  *  A large catchment area resulting in high volumes and a good mixture of simple to complex pathology. Excellent supervision while on-call.

  *  Elective opportunities locally, nationally, or internationally.

  *  Opportunity to do Northern ophthalmology rotations in Manitoba and Nunavut.

  *  Early surgical exposure.

  *  A new state-of-the-art clinic space in the Misericordia Health Centre opened in 2014.

  *  Residents are funded to attend mandatory courses including the TORIC review course in Toronto and the Halifax Ethics Course.

  *  Each resident has a budget of $8000 to attend non-mandatory courses with approval from the Program Director.

  * Residents are protected from call-duties during the day (they only carry a pager at night/weekends) so that they can focus on their scheduled rotation.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Overview**

The program will ensure comprehensive training in clinical and surgical
ophthalmology. We strive to provide a world-class training environment at the
University of Manitoba. Our program is committed to becoming better and we
encourage resident and staff feedback to help shape and improve our program.
All subspecialty disciplines are represented in our department including
uveitis and ocular oncology. There is a robust academic half day program to
prepare residents for formal examination, informal seminars, journal clubs, as
well as an active visiting professor program and weekly grand rounds.
Residents will be expected to present at grand rounds once per year on a topic
of their choosing. Surgical training starts early. On-call ophthalmology
responsibilities begin at the end of PGY-1. We believe that some of the best
learning comes from on-call; call is therefore always supervised by a staff
ophthalmologist and the resident is not expected to run solo, unsupervised
weekend or evening clinics.

Our graduates have gone on to competitive fellowships in Canada and
internationally.



**PGY1**

The PGY1 year will give the resident a comprehensive experience in relevant
hospital specialties including medicine, infectious diseases, neuro-radiology,
neurology, plastic surgery, emergency medicine, pediatrics & rheumatology. At
the end of the year there will be 6 weeks dedicated to ophthalmology to gain
familiarity with examination techniques and common pathology. The resident
will then finish the year by attending the 6 week basic science course for
ophthalmology in Toronto (TORIC).

**PGY2**

The PGY2 year aims to provide a solid foundation in general ophthalmology. The
PGY2 resident will run the morning resident emergency clinic at the
Misericordia Health Centre with supervision by staff ophthalmologists within
our department. Volume will be dictated by the resident’s ability, and access
to all necessary ancillary testing, lasers, and minor surgical procedure areas
will be available. Residents will be involved in teaching medical students.
The afternoons will be used to rotate through general and subspecialty
offices, as well as attend the OR and minor treatment suites.

**PGY3-5**

Formal surgical rotations begin in PGY3 and the resident will be exposed to
and participate in cataract, strabismus, glaucoma, corneal, oculoplastic, and
vitreoretinal surgeries commensurate with their ability and level of training.
Of note, cataract surgical training begins in PGY3. The resident will rotate
through clinical comprehensive and subspecialty rotations during these years
as well. They are expected to become proficient in comprehensive
ophthalmological skills but can somewhat tailor their experience based on
subspecialty interests or perceived deficiencies through selectives/electives.

**Research**

Residents are expected to be involved in basic and clinical research. The
resident must present yearly at our annual research day.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

  

Primary site: Misericordia Health Centre

Other sites: Children's Hospital of Winnipeg, private offices of teaching
staff in Winnipeg, Health Sciences Centre, St. Boniface Hospital and the GRMC
Vision Centre in Brandon

* * *

# Additional Information

In addition to the essential skills and abilities required of all postgraduate
medical trainees, applicants to the Ophthalmology Program must also possess
the essential skills and abilities necessary to meet the Objectives of
Training in the Specialty of Ophthalmology as identified by the Royal College
of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. Such skills and abilities may include,
but not be limited to, fine motor skills, normal corrected visual acuity,
normal stereopsis and the communication skills and abilities necessary to
provide quality patient care. Applicants who may need accommodation to meet
these essential skills and abilities must declare such requirements in their
application, which shall be assessed in accordance with all applicable laws
and policies regarding accessibility and accommodation. Please contact the
University of Manitoba’s Postgraduate Medical Education Office for further
information.

Additional training experiences above and beyond the traditional medical
school curriculum will be considered in a manner that upholds and respects the
principles of fairness, equity and professionalism in the application,
selection and matching process.  Training experiences that fall outside of the
undergraduate medical education will be evaluated using existing institutional
rubrics, and weighted in a manner that encourages equity among all applicants.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26617?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26617