#  University of Ottawa - General Surgery - Ottawa

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 4 click here

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Maher Matar  

Address General Surgery  
The Ottawa Hospital - Civic Campus  
1053 Carling Ave  
Ottawa ON , Ontario, K1Y4E9  

Work  (613) 798-5555 x 18936

Websites of Interest [ uOttawa general surgery program
](https://www.uottawagensurg.com/)  
[ University of Ottawa General Surgery Program
](http://www.medicine.uottawa.ca/surgery/eng/05bb_postgrad.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Abby Salman

Title: Program Administrator

Email: absalman@toh.ca

Phone: (613) 798-5555 ext. 10608

  

* * *

# Important Information

**All candidates must meet the Ontario Criteria of Eligibility**  found
[here](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-criteria/provincial-
criteria/ontario/).

**COVID-19 vaccination**

Please be aware that most, if not all, hospitals in Ontario have mandatory
COVID-19 vaccination policies in place that require, in the absence of a valid
medical or human rights exemption, proof of vaccination. Acceptable
vaccination must be in accordance with Health Canada. You will be required to
provide an attestation that you meet this requirement as part of the CaRMS
application process and any actual documentation will be collected by the
appropriate institution if matched. These guidelines could change at any time
in accordance with future direction from the Ministry of Health or the
Universities based on information from Public Health.

**MCCQE (Medical Council of Canada qualifying examination) Part 1 results** :

Trainees will be required to disclose their MCCQE Part 1 examination results
if taken, upon entry into any of the University of Ottawa's training programs.
**Please note that the MCCQE Part 1 is  not a requirement to begin
residency.** The purpose of this disclosure is to allow for resources to be
provided to the few residents who would benefit from extra support early in
their residency in an effort to maximize their success.

**Failure to meet or provide proof of any of the stated requirements may
result in an applicant’s file not being reviewed or removed from the Rank
Order List.**

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

All candidates must meet the Ontario Criteria of Eligibility.

For a full description of our program please visit our
[website](http://www.medicine.uottawa.ca/surgery/eng/05bb_postgrad.html).

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  * Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  * Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  * Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  * Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

3 letters of reference only. They must be from attending staff, not senior
residents.

We look for evidence of teachability and humility, knowledge, technical
skills, clinical judgement, teamwork, communication (written and oral), self-
directed learning, work ethic and professionalism.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  200

Maximum :  800

  

Personal Letter

Word count

Minimum : 200

Maximum : 800



This year, we have implemented changes in the application.

Personal letters:

There will be 2 parts to the personal statement this year:

**First:**

Tell us about yourself in 400 words.

**Second:**

 Please choose 1 pair of qualities from the following list:

  * Leadership and followership
  * Communication and good judgement
  * Compassion and conflict resolution
  * Perseverance and self-awareness
  * Attention to detail and time management

Please write a short paragraph about each quality in the pair chosen (400
words total). In each paragraph please explain (1) why you think this quality
is important in general surgery and (2) an example of how you embody this
quality.

Custom Résumé / CV

**CV:  **

While preparing your cv, please indicate how many hours were dedicated to each
extracurricular activity.

Please include all prior work experience, even if not related to the medical
field.

Please make sure to include your full list of electives in your CV.

Please provide a one pager summarizing the three (3) greatest achievements
described on your CV and how those achievements would help you in general
surgery residency (Max 600 words). Please make sure to upload this summary in
the same document as your CV.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.
  4. If you have failed a rotation or a course, or otherwise have an unusual circumstance, please discuss it in your application. You can include it in your personal statement.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Additional documents submitted after the file review start period opens will
NOT be considered.



* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 7, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: A coordinated interview schedule will be
made available by the General Surgery program administrator. There will be a
single interview date.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: A short list of applicants will be
prepared based on an academic record, curriculum vitae, letters of reference
and a personal letter providing evidence of interest in the specialty and
suitability of the candidate for general surgery as a career. We have updated
the format for interviews to ensure the least interview bias and most
accountability. Both CMGs and IMGs will be interviewed the same day. We will
be conducting Multiple Mini Interviews (MMIs) with each applicant moving
through various scenarios. A committee will then draw up the final rank order
to be submitted to CaRMS.  
  
Letters will be e-mailed in late January to ALL applicants, either offering or
declining interviews. Please e-mail your acceptance of interview if you have
been offered one by the deadline date. If an interview was not granted, please
do not contact us. If you did not receive a letter, please contact Abby Salman
at asalman@toh.ca. This is the ONLY method we will use to correspond regarding
interview offers  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We look for evidence of commitment to general surgery in addition to
teachability, humility, knowledge, technical skills, clinical judgement,
teamwork, communication, self-directed learning, work ethic, compassion,
perseverance and research interest.  

## Program goals

We seek well rounded individuals, with demonstrated interests outside surgery,
who possess the following core values: integrity, accountability, and
initiative. We aim to produce the best trained surgeons in Canada who will
provide excellent patient care, contribute to innovation in all domains
(clinical and non clinical) of our specialty, and take pride in their chosen
profession. We are fully acredited program by the Royal College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Canada,

## Selection process goals

We are looking for well rounded individuals who demonstrate the following:

Teamwork ie. the ability to work collaboratively with faculty, co-residents,
students, and allied health personnel

Leadership i.e. the ability to take ownership over patient care, act
decisively and confidently in acute situations, take on leadership roles
within and outside of the General Surgery program

Compassion i.e. the ability to interact with patients and their families with
the same empathy that one would with their own family member

Perseverance i.e. the capacity to face challenges with a positive mindset,
demonstrate personal insight into areas of self-improvement, and receive
constructive feedback with an open mind

Research Interests i.e. demonstrate the ability to pose a research question
that will benefit the specialty, write a proposal and submit for ethics
review, conduct data collection and analysis, present findings at a local,
national or international meeting, and submit a manuscript for publication

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is made up of faculty and senior
residents that meet in groups of two to review each applicant's file.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
On average we receive 150-200 applications for CMGs

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  
We interview and average of 40-45 CMG applicants

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Teamwork, Leadership, Compassion, Perseverance and Research Interests Please indicate how many hours were dedicated to each extracurricular activity. Please include all prior work experience, even if not related to the medical field. Please provide a one pager summarizing the three (3) greatest achievements described on your CV and how these achievements would help you in general surgery residency. Make sure to include your one pager summary in the same document as your CV. Make sure to include a full list of electives.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Majority of electives in General Surgery   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Demonstrate leadership, compassion, commitment, and perseverance   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Eg. Created a new program or initiative, interest group director, volunteering with youth, captain   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  We only screen these to ensure there are no red flags such as a failure of a rotation   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  There will be 2 parts to the personal statement this year: First: Tell us about yourself in 400 words. Second: Please choose 1 pair of qualities from the following list: • Leadership and followership • Communication and good judgement • Compassion and conflict resolution • Perseverance and self-awareness • Attention to detail and time management Please write a short paragraph about each quality in the pair chosen (400 words total). In each paragraph please explain (1) why you think this quality is important in general surgery and (2) an example of how you embody this quality.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Teachability, Medical Expert, Teamwork, Self-directed Learning, Work Ethic and Professionalism   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We look for evidence of involvement in research such as conference presentations and manuscripts   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We only screen these to ensure there are no red flags such as a failure of a rotation   
Other file component(s) |  We look over the files to ensure there are no RED FLAGS such as lapse in professionalism, display of poor personal characteristics, or otherwise serious concern of unsuitability for our program   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: *Elective experiences will be reviewed, however we are
sensitive to the lack of elective opportunities caused by the current pandemic
situation. For this reason, elective experiences will not be considered this
year*

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Describes teamwork experiences in a healthcare/other setting   
Collegiality |  Kind, and professional interactions with the everyone throughout the interview process   
Communication skills |  Clear, concise and focused verbal and non-verbal interactions; appropriate emotional intelligence   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrates appreciation for the physician's role as advocate for individual patients and communities.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrates knowledge of its scope of practice and culture; exposure to the field clinically or for research   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrates knowledge of offered training experiences; asks relevant questions about program.   
Leadership skills |  Evidence of leading groups having responsibility in healthcare/other setting   
Professionalism |  Evidence of good moral reasoning, compassion, commitment, and resilience in medical/other scenarios   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Other interview component(s) |  Teachability - Ability to respond to constructive feedback   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The General Surgery Program at the University of Ottawa is ideal for those
interested in either an academic career or a  community practice.  We have a
state of the art Skills and Simulation Centre that provides excellent training
in laparoscopic and open techniques as well as team based training. We offer a
comprehensive Surgical Scientist Program (SSP) for those interested in
academic surgery. We also provide excellent opportunities to obtain first hand
general surgery experience within a community setting at one of our partnering
hospitals.

The Ottawa Hospital serves a population of 1.3 million people in Eastern
Ontario.  We are a hospital with 1202 beds with a very large volume of both
benign and cancer general surgery diagnoses.  We are the second largest cancer
center in the country and perform over 50 000 surgical cases per year. The
Ottawa Hospital Research Institute is the 5th overall hospital for research
funding in Canada. There are a variety of graduate programs available to
residents in our training program in the following domains: Basic Science
Research, Clinical Epidemiology, Health Administration, Education, and Public
Health etc. Residents are supported by the Ottawa Hospital Research Methods
Center which helps in Clinical Design, Biostatistics and Economic analysis
etc.

The city of Ottawa is beautiful with large parks, bicycle paths, and green
space.  As the capital city of Canada we are home to many museums, cultural
and sporting events such as Winterlude, National Capital Race Weekend,
Parliament Buildings, and the biggest July 1st celebration in the country.







* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

This is a five year post M.D. program. The curriculum follows the specialty
training requirements and the objectives of training specified by the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. The curriculum can be found by
following this link:
<http://www.medicine.uottawa.ca/surgery/eng/05bb_postgrad.html>

* * *

# Training Sites

Ottawa Hospital - Civic Campus

Ottawa Hospital - General Campus

Ottawa Hospital - Riverside Campus

Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario

The Montfort Hospital

Pembroke Regional Hospital (Community)

Qikiqtani General Hospital (Remote - Iqaluit)







* * *

# Additional Information

For a full description of our program please visit our website at:
http://www.medicine.uottawa.ca/surgery/eng/05bb_postgrad.html



* * *

# FAQ

**What is the program doing to improve their selection process?**

The Ottawa program strives to offer a fair selection process. In an effort to
improve our selection process, we routinely conduct quality improvement
initiatives. As such, you may be asked to participate in such projects. Your
participation would be completely voluntary and would not impact the selection
process itself.





Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27202?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27202