#  University of Toronto - Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery - Toronto

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on September 24, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Vincent Lin  

Address Otolaryngology- Head & Neck Surgery  
C. David Naylor Building  
6 Queen's Park Crescent West, Suite 120  
Toronto, Ontario, M5S 3H2  

(416) 946-8743

Websites of Interest [ Department of Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery
](http://www.otolaryngology.utoronto.ca)  
[ Post MD Education Office - U of T ](http://pg.postmd.utoronto.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Vincent Lin

Title: Director Postgraduate Education

Email: ohns.educationcoordinator@utoronto.ca

Phone: 416-946-8743

  

Name: Andrea Donovan

Title: Education Coordinator

Email: ohns.educationcoordinator@utoronto.ca

Phone: (416) 946-8743

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion**  
All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of the
University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

  
**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)  
** The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.  
  
_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

###  

**Applying competency-based practices to Otolaryngology – Head & Neck Surgery
Residency Education**

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD),](https://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/what-is-cbd-e) aims to enhance
patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving
patient needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education
process.  All levels of training are now fully immersed in the CBD curriculum.

CBD will use time as a framework and competency as the basis for progression.
It is not anticipated that the duration of training will change for trainees.
Residency programs will be broken down into stages, and each stage will have a
series of “Entrustable Professional Activities (EPA’s)” based on required
competencies. These EPA’s are based on milestones that are assessed by
frequent, formative assessments within the clinical workplace to ensure
residents are developing and receiving feedback on the skills they need.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and
traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification. Certification for trainees will include the completion of a
Royal College written and applied examination. Within a CBD program, all
EPA’s(documented within an electronic portfolio) and the Royal College
examination must be successfully completed to achieve certification.  

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

**  
**

** **

* * *

# Return of Service

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Language assessment document accepted:  **TOEFL-iBT

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:**  7 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Occupational English Test (OET)
-Medicine

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum score of 9 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Letter of language proficiency*

*Alternatively, candidates can submit a printout from the [World Directory of Medical Schools](http://www.wdoms.org/) which clearly states that the language of instruction is English or French.

The **IELTS Indicator**  will be accepted as a substitute for the Academic
Version of the IELTS.

The **TOEFL iBT Home Edition**  will be accepted as a substitute for the TOEFL
iBT.

Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site. Please
review specific program descriptions for more information.

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

  * **Date/milestone assessment submission required:**  File review opening
  * **Requirement:  **Mandatory

For more information on the MCCQE Part 1 click on the following link
<https://www.mcc.ca/examinations/mccqe-part-i/>

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

  * **Date/milestone assessment submission required:  **File review opening
  * **Requirement:  **Mandatory with exceptions*

* MCCQE part II can be used to apply instead of the NAC

For more information on the NAC OSCE click on the following link [National Assessment Collaboration | Medical Council of Canada](http://mcc.ca/examinations/nac-overview/)

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

If possible one or more letters from a faculty member in otolaryngology is
helpful but not required.

Letters from other clinical and research supervisors are acceptable.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

Your personal letter should outline your academic and career goals in
Otolaryngology. Highlight your leadership activities and any other information
relevant to your application.

Maximum word count: 1000 (no minimum)  
  
_Important Note: Please address any gaps in training or remediation periods in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count._

Optional - will be reviewed

Ophthalmological Report

It is strongly recommended the applicant provide a written report from an
Ophthalmologist or Optometrist stating the applicant's visual status,
including stereopsis and colour vision.  Vision testing, however, is not
mandatory.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: Interview Dates - To be confirmed.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Applicants that are considered
competitive for admission to the program based on the analysis of last year's
applicants will be offered an interview. We will contact applicants who are
selected for an interview by email. Candidates will attend virtual interviews
with faculty and residents.  
  
Residents from our program will be available virtually after the interviews to
meet with you and discuss any questions you may have pertaining to the program
or city.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

The Department of Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery at the University of
Toronto is at the forefront of medical education for our specialty at the
undergraduate, postgraduate and continuing education levels. The residency
training program has fully transitioned to a competency based curriculum and
is leading innovation in residency education. Notable examples include the
development of a multi-teaching site competency based medical education
curriculum, an on-line smartphone program that allows for the completion of
assessments in real time, and the infrastructure for multi-input, committee-
based promotion decisions. Continuing education continues to be a significant
component of our education portfolio. The Department offers a number of
courses for trainees, community and academic otolaryngologists and allied
health professionals with world-class faculty and innovative teaching methods.
The courses have been recognized for their excellence with several teaching
awards.

The education program attracts highly motivated trainees with an annual
enrollment of 25-30 residents and over 20 clinical and research fellows.

## Selection process goals

The candidates we are looking for are bright, have excellent interpersonal
skills, good clinical judgment, high ethical and professional standards and
have a real interest in Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery in either academic
or community practice. Demonstration or presumed sufficient bimanual dexterity
and hand eye coordination to perform delicate surgery is highly desirable.

We are looking for the best candidates for our specialty so preference is not
given to any particular medical school. We make our selections based on the
dossier you submit as well as personal interviews. Interviews are mandatory
and will take place on Friday, February 17, 2023, conducted virtually.  The
interviews will involve meeting with faculty and residents.  The major factors
that influence our ranking are: the strength of the academic record, the
letters of reference and the interviews.

## File review process

Review team composition : The Committee includes the Program Director,
Departmental Chair and resident elected ‘Chief Resident.’ Additional members
are selected from the RPC and faculty from several teaching sites. Typically,
there are 6 faculty members and 6 residents that make up the Selection
Committee.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Academic productivity, leadership   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted candidates’ opportunities to arrange and complete electives and would like to reassure you that a lack of elective activity this year will not negatively impact your application to our program.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  As per CV and personal letter   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  As per CV and personal leader   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic awards and performance in other areas   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Extracurricular and leadership skills   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  As per the Reference Document section.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  High academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted
candidates’ opportunities to arrange and complete electives and would like to
reassure you that a lack of elective activity this year will not negatively
impact your application to our program.

On Site Elective: Although encouraged, we do not require applicants to have
done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Demonstrated collaboration   
Collegiality |  Demonstrated collegiality   
Communication skills |  Demonstrated communication skills   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrated health advocacy   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated interest in the discipline   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest in the program   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrated leadership skills   
Professionalism |  Demonstrated professionalism   
Scholarly activities |  Demonstrated scholarship   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

This Otolaryngology - Head & Neck Surgery program at the University of Toronto
consists of 1 year of Surgical Foundations training followed by 4 years of
specialty training at University of Toronto teaching hospitals.

In core surgery, 13 blocks are in rotations undertaken in general surgery,
neurosurgery, plastic surgery, emergency medicine, internal medicine, medical
imaging, anesthesia, and critical care medicine. These rotations provide an
important knowledge base to complement the core otolaryngology training. 7
months of clinical otolaryngology and 4 months of otolaryngology research
comprise the remainder of the 2 year core training. Otolaryngology rotations
for PGY1 residents are usually provided at the University Health Network
(UHN), the Hospital for Sick Children (HSC), Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre
(SHSC), and St. Michael's Hospital (SMH). PGY2 residents also have a 1 month
otolaryngology rotation at North York General Hospital (NYGH). The PGY2
4-month research block is undertaken with the supervision of a clinical or
basic science researcher after formal proposal and discussion/approval of the
project by Dr. Alain Dabdoub, the Director of Research for our Department, and
Dr. Vincent Lin, the Program Director.

The PGY3 year involves 12 months of clinical otolaryngology at University of
Toronto teaching hospitals (usually SH, HSC, SHSC, and/or UHN). PGY3 residents
spend a total of 2 weeks in the Division of Anatomy at the University of
Toronto learning from anatomy professors, dissecting cadaver specimens, and
teaching head & neck anatomy to first year medical students.

The PGY4 year involves 10 months of clinical otolaryngology at University of
Toronto teaching hospitals (usually SH, HSC, THP, SMH, SHSC, and/or UHN). The
PGY4 resident is the senior resident at THP and HSC. PGY4 residents have a
3-month block that consists of a facial plastic surgery rotation, elective
rotation, sleep medicine rotation, and head & neck pathology rotation.

The PGY5 year involves 12 months of clinical otolaryngology at University of
Toronto teaching hospitals (usually UHN, SH, SMH, SHSC, and MGH). The PGY5
residents are the senior or chief resident during each rotation. They have an
unparalleled exposure to all aspects of otolaryngology-head & neck surgery and
by the end of their year are expected to function at the consultant level.

The graded responsibilities of residents are clearly outlined to them by the
Program Director and the site co-ordinators/hospital chiefs during their
orientation sessions at each new rotation.

Since July 1, 2008 all University of Toronto residents entering PGY1 are
required to complete the web based PGCorEd* core competency modules as part of
their residency program certification. These modules provide the foundation
for non-clinical roles for the RCPSC and CFPC Programs.  These modules are
focused for PGY1 & PGY2 trainees.  Failure to complete the modules may
constitute professional misconduct and/or prevent promotion to the next PGY
level.

A.T.L.S. Training:  
  

Certification in Advanced Trauma Life Support (A.T.L.S.) is provided and
funded by our Department for all PGY1 residents.

  
  

Fellows:  
  

The University of Toronto teaching program is not only a leader in the
education of residents, but also in the education of postgraduate fellows.
There are a large number of clinical and research fellowships offered for
advanced training. However, it is made absolutely clear that residents have
first priority for any learning experience, including the operating room. The
fellows are considered unique to our program in bringing outside experience
and knowledge. Our residents have found them to be excellent teachers and have
formed lasting friendships. We consider the fellows a uniquely positive
addition to our training program. Prospective candidates are encouraged to
speak with our current residents about the positive impact our fellows have
had on their education.

  
  

Electives:  
  

There is a great deal of flexibility in choosing electives anywhere residents
wish. However, residents must submit to the Program Director, a written
request detailing the nature of the elective, the proposed dates, a set of
objectives and the name, affiliation and address/telephone/e-mail of the
supervisor.

  
  

Subspecialties  
  

Our program provides a full range of adult and pediatric care over seven
institutions. General otolaryngology exposure is integral and available in all
teaching hospitals, particularly at St. Michael's Hospital, Michael Garron
Hospital and Trillium Health Partners Hospitals. The bulk of otolaryngology
care in these three institutions can be defined as "general otolaryngology".

In addition to general otolaryngology, the following institutions also provide
sub-specialty training as follows:

UHN: head & neck surgery/reconstruction, otology/neurotology and skull base
surgery

SH: head & neck surgery emphasizing endocrine surgery, rhinology and sinus
surgery

SMH: laryngology, rhinology, endocrine head & neck surgery, skull base surgery

HSC: pediatric otolaryngology

SHSC: otology/neurotology, skull base surgery, head & neck
surgery/reconstruction

MGH: sinus surgery, pediatric otolaryngology, facial cosmetic surgery

THP: otology, sinus surgery, pediatric otolaryngology

NYGH: otology, sinus surgery, laryngology, pediatric otolaryngology

St. Joseph's Health Centre: general otolaryngology



Didactic and Practical Skills Courses  
  

There is a substantial program of didactic and practical skills courses
arranged for residents during their 5 year residency. During the PGY1 year,
residents attend the Surgical Foundations lecture series given weekly by the
Department of Surgery. PGY2 residents usually take the Royal College Surgical
Foundations examination in the first half of their year, which is a pre-
requisite to taking the final Royal College exam in Otolaryngology-HNS. In
addition, PGY1 residents attend a prep camp in July and refresher course in
September at the Surgical Skills Centre, Sinai Health. The curriculum covers
the full range of basic surgical skills (airway management, suturing, bone
plating, lasers, etc.). At the end of the program in the spring of each year,
PGY1 residents undergo a practical skills assessment exam and are graded
against residents in all of the other surgical specialties.

PGY2 to PGY4 residents have protected academic time each Friday morning from
9am to 12pm during the academic year for core lectures. This is a 3 year cycle
of lectures given by faculty within and outside our Department as required.
The lectures cover all aspects of otolaryngology management as well as
specific lectures on the 7 CanMEDS roles, ethics, and epidemiology/critical
appraisal. At the end of each block of lectures, residents write a 3 hour exam
in the same format as the final Royal College exam (short answer). In addition
to core lectures, residents have 2 temporal bone drilling sessions in the
Surgical Skills Centre during core lecture time.

PGY3 residents spend the equivalent of 2 weeks in the Division of Anatomy.
They receive didactic head & neck anatomy lectures and interactive seminars
from Division of Anatomy professors. Residents dissect cadaver specimens and
are demonstrators (teachers) for first year University of Toronto medical
students. Where possible, otolaryngology faculty participate to show residents
surgical anatomy.

PGY4 residents participate in a fellowship study course organized by our
Department each academic year. The lectures are held on Mondays for 2-3 hours
and again cover the major topics in otolaryngology-head & neck surgery. The
course is revised each year with input from the most recent graduates and the
current PGY5 residents.

Residents are invited and encouraged to attend the 8-10 continuing education
courses held each year organized by our Department. Residents in their PGY4
year are sponsored to attend the annual American Academy of Otolaryngology-
Head & Neck Surgery meeting or the Annual Canadian Otolaryngology Review
Course. Wherever possible, residents are encouraged to attend scientific
meetings related to otolaryngology-head & neck surgery.

  
  

Practice Exams  
  

Practice exams are an integral part of our training program. In addition to a
practice Surgical Foundations exam, PGY1 practical surgery skills exam, and
core lecture exams, our residents write the National In-Training exam (NITE)
each year. The National In-Training exam questions are submitted by
otolaryngology faculty across the 13 Canadian training programs and all
PGY2-PGY4 residents across the country take the exam. Results are tabulated by
resident year and sent to each resident and program.

Practice oral exams are an integral part of the training program. The PGY1,
PGY2, PGY3, and PGY4 year will usually undergo 2 sessions with 4-5 examiners
each year (i.e., 8-10 practice oral exams) and the PGY5 residents will undergo
3-4 sessions with 4-6 examiners each year (i.e., 20-30 practice oral exams).
After each exam, residents are sent their marks for each station compared with
their peer's marks. More importantly, residents are given specific written
comments from the examiners regarding their performance. The PGY5 residents in
particular have found these practice oral exams an invaluable experience and
tremendous preparation for the final Royal College exam.

  
  

PGY-1  
  

  * Otolaryngology - 7 months
  * Anesthesia - 1 month
  * Neurosurgery - 1 month
  * Adult Emergency Medicine - 1 month
  * Internal Medicine - 1 month
  * Medical Imaging - 1 month

  
  

PGY-2  
  

  * Otolaryngology - 4 months (research)
  * General Surgery - 2 months
  * Otolaryngology at North York General (NYGH) - 1 month
  * Plastic Surgery - 3 months
  * Intensive Care Medicine - 2 months

All PGY1 residents participate in the Surgical Foundations course within the
Department of Surgery. PGY1 residents participate in a unique hands-on
surgical skills training program on a weekly basis during the academic year.

  
  

PGY-3  
  

This is a year of clinical otolaryngology. Trainees have ten months of
rotations at University of Toronto Teaching Hospitals, as well as 1 month of
elective. In addition, PGY3 residents have a unique opportunity by spending 2
weeks of dedicated time in the anatomy laboratory and teaching head & neck
anatomy to first year medical students.

  
  

PGY4 and PGY5  
  

Two years of clinical otolaryngology - head & neck surgery at University of
Toronto teaching hospitals including a minimum of 3 months of community
otolaryngology (Michael Garron Hospital & Trillium Health Partners).  A
3-month block comprising of a pathology rotation, a 1-month facial plastic &
reconstructive surgery rotation, a sleep medicine rotation and a 1-month
elective are included in the PGY4 or PGY5 year. Residents in their PGY4-PGY5
years generally spend 3 month rotations at the University Health Network,
Sinai Health, the Hospital for Sick Children, Sunnybrook Health Science
Centre, Michael Garron Hospital, and Trillium Health Partners.

  
  

Research  
  

One of the mandates of the University of Toronto Department of Otolaryngology
- Head & Neck Surgery is to train the community and academic leaders of
tomorrow. An important aspect of our training program is to foster clinical
and basic science research. In his capacity as the Director of Research for
our Department, Dr. Alain Dabdoub oversees the research agenda in
collaboration with 4 PhD researchers and 8 research laboratories.

A dedicated 4 month research block takes place in the PGY2 year through a
mentorship program; research projects are presented at our annual Percy
Ireland Academic Day during the spring of each year. Trainees who are
interested in pursuing a career in academic otolaryngology are encouraged to
take advantage of the clinician scientist program through the University of
Toronto. Some residents pursue advanced degrees (e.g. clinical epidemiology,
surgeon scientist, education, health economics) during their residency
training but this is not a requirement of our program.

  
  

Rounds  
  

There are numerous weekly academic teaching sessions, hospital rounds, quality
assurance rounds (M & M rounds), and grand rounds during the academic year.
Residents are responsible for preparing hospital based rounds and PGY2-PGY4
residents give departmental grand rounds once per year. Residents also prepare
and present at journal club with articles focused around a particular subject
or theme and include the teaching of clinical epidemiology and critical
appraisal.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

The University of Toronto Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery Program is fully
integrated. Affiliated hospitals are:

  * Sinai Health (SH)
  * St. Michael's Hospital - Unity Health Toronto (SMH)
  * Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre (SHSC)
  * University Health Network (UHN) - Toronto General Hospital, Toronto Western Hospital, Princess Margaret Hospital
  * Hospital for Sick Children (HSC)
  * Michael Garron Hospital (MGH)
  * North York General (NYGH)
  * St. Joseph's Health Centre (SJHC)
  * Trillium Health Partners (THP)

[http://www.otolaryngology.utoronto.ca/our-hospitals
](http://www.otolaryngology.utoronto.ca/our-hospitals)

  * We have the largest and most comprehensive training program in Canada

  * We have significant depth and cover all subspecialties within otolaryngology-head & neck surgery

  * Most of our core teaching faculty are recognized national leaders in otolaryngology-head & neck surgery and many are considered international leaders

  * We have extremely well-organized and comprehensive didactic and hands-on skills training to cover the depth and breadth of otolaryngology-head & neck surgery

  * Our residents are very happy

  * Once our residents have completed their training, they possess unique skills and unparalleled experience to enter a community setting or initiate a career in an academic setting

  * Many of our residents and fellows go on to assume leadership roles in both academia and the community

  * Our research programs and support are innovative, comprehensive, and award winning

For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>

* * *

# Additional Information

**Pre-residency Orientation Programs**  

All IMG candidates accepted to all residency programs will be required to
complete either the Pre-Residency Program (PRP) or the Pre-Residency Program
for Family Medicine (PRPFM) prior to entering into a residency program.
Matched IMGs will be expected to attend these programs in Toronto, several
weeks in advance of the start of their residency program. In some cases, this
may result in a delay of the start date of the residency. Additional
information on the PRP and PRP FM programs can be found at the following link:
[Touchstone Institute](http://www.touchstoneinstitute.ca/).

**Assessment Verification Period**

All IMG candidates accepted to residency training programs will be required to
undergo an Assessment Verification Period (AVP). This assessment period is
normally 12 weeks in length and is required by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Ontario to obtain an educational license to enter a residency
program. [CPSO – International Medical Graduates
(IMGs)](https://www.cpso.on.ca/Physicians/Registration/International-Medical-
Graduates).

IMGs that have failed an AVP and are reapplying through CaRMS are ineligible
to apply for training in the same specialty in Ontario but may apply to a
different specialty in the first and/or second iteration. IMGs who have
withdrawn from a program prior to completion of an AVP must declare so upon
application.

**Additional Ontario Information:**

  1. **Permanent Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education office in order to comply with the current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry.
  2. **Matched applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data file to the matched university’s postgraduate education office. The postgraduate office will share the information as needed, but not limited to the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:**  The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure to meet or provide proof**  of any of the stated requirements may result in the applicant file not being reviewed and removed.

Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery is a broadly based discipline involved in
the diagnosis and management of disease occurring above the clavicles and
largely outside the orbit and cranial cavity. As such, it encompasses many
systems and involves a very broad area of medical practice, including
communication disorders, hearing loss, neurotology, skull base surgery, head
and neck surgery, endoscopy, facial and reconstructive surgery and allergy in
all age groups. The faculty has a broad range of skills with leaders
represented in virtually all sub-disciplines. Very close relationships exist,
including cross-appointments, with a number of other disciplines such as
radiation oncology, pathology, and certain of the basic sciences. The
discipline is vital, changing and growing. It is very exciting to be a part of
this specialty.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27250?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27250