#  University of Saskatchewan - Pediatrics - Saskatoon  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on August 30, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 6

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Mark Inman  

Address Department of Pediatrics  
103 Hospital Drive  
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, S7N 0W8  

Work

Work

Websites of Interest [ Explore the Pediatrics program at the University of
Saskatchewan ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eeVmx2Ga6VE)  
[ Jim Pattison Children's Hospital Tour
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DDK1GjCWp94&t=9s)  
[ Department of Pediatrics
](https://medicine.usask.ca/department/clinical/pediatrics.php)  
[ Jim Pattison Children's Hospital Foundation ](https://pattisonchildrens.ca/)  
[ Jim Pattison Children's Hospital
](https://momsandkidssask.saskhealthauthority.ca/)  
[ A Tour Through Maternal and Children’s Programs in Saskatchewan
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1JEb7oVnotI&feature=youtu.be)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Mark Inman

Title: Program Director

Email: jeanine.dice@usask.ca

  

Name: Dr. Erin Woods

Title: Associate Program Director

Email: jeanine.dice@usask.ca

  

Name: Ms. Michelle Haley

Title: Program Administrative Assistant

Email: michelle.haley@usask.ca

  

Name: Ms. Nancy Groeneveld

Title: Program Administrative Assistant

Email: nancy.groeneveld@usask.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Applicants are responsible for reviewing the [University of Saskatchewan
Policies for the R-1 Match](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/saskatchewan/) to determine if they meet all
requirements and eligibility criteria. Failure to meet or provide proof of any
of the stated requirements or documents may result in an applicant’s file not
being reviewed or ranked.

**Casper Test**  
All applicants must complete the Casper test. Please refer to the Examinations
section for more information.

**Licensing  
** Matched applicants must be eligible for an educational register license
with the [College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Registration___Licensure/web/Applicants/Licensure/Registration_and_Licensure_Landing.aspx?hkey=75b022f8-df64-4f34-8e2a-a09bea881787)
(CPSS) for a July 1st start date and must maintain eligibility for an
educational register license throughout their entire training program. Matched
applicants who are graduating in the spring will need to provide a copy of
their medical degree/diploma to the PGME office and the College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Saskatchewan (CPSS) prior to the start of residency training.
Any delays in providing all required documentation to CPSS may result in the
following:

  * delay in issuance of an educational register license and a delay in start of postgraduate training beyond July 1st
  * release from CaRMS match contract

**Applicants completing medical education at the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)**  are
required to submit proof of English language proficiency before the rank order
deadline to demonstrate they meet CPSS requirements. More information is
available under Supporting Documentation-Language Proficiency.

**NOTE:**  Applicants who are considering a delay to their convocation date
must be aware that a medical degree cannot be issued to a student until they
have convocated. CPSS bylaws require that new residents must have received
their medical degree prior to the commencement of residency training. Choosing
to delay convocation will affect a matched applicant’s ability to commence
their residency training program in Saskatchewan on July 1. Please refer to
the [U of S CaRMS Deferral Policy](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/carms-
deferral-of-training-start-date---match-violation-release-from-
match.php#relatedForms) for additional information.

**Credentialing**  
In order to commence and continue in Postgraduate Medical Education training
programs, matched applicants must be eligible for and maintain privileges
within the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) as determined by their
credentialing process. The Saskatchewan Health Authority requires successful
applicants to submit immunization records and a current criminal record check
as part of their pre-resident application for appointment. Applicants with
criminal records will be considered on a case by case basis by the College of
Medicine in consultation with the Health Authority.

Any delays in providing all required documentation to the Saskatchewan Health
Authority may result in a delay in the start of postgraduate training beyond
July 1st.

**Resident Boot Camp  
** All matched applicants must attend a mandatory three-day Resident Boot Camp
scheduled for late June. The purpose of the Boot Camp is to provide additional
support to trainees as they transition to residency by introducing and
consolidating baseline skills and knowledge needed to flourish during their
residency years. The program will include interactive case-based and hands-on
practice sessions. Stipends will be provided to trainees.

Attendance is required and absences are only permitted in exceptional
circumstances, with prior approval of PGME.

**Basic Life Support Course/PALS  
** Matched applicants are required to provide proof of BLS certiﬁcation
through the Heart & Stroke Foundation (current as of July 1, 2025) to the PGME
oﬃce prior to starting their training program. If BLS has not been completed,
please let the program administrator know and this may be combined with your
PALS training in early July 2025.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Personal Letter/Statement: specific details regarding the questions to address
and the length of the letter can be found in the **Personal L****etter**
section of the **Additional Documents**. We encourage you to review this
closely and address the questions to the best of your capability.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

All applicants must be Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents at the time of
application and must submit a notarized/certified photocopy of one of the
accepted citizenship documents.

Proof of citizenship must be current at the time of application and expired
documents will not be accepted.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum of 7.0 in each of the components

**Language assessment document accepted:**

  1. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on paper at a test venue
  2. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on a computer at a test venue
  3. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine at Home

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum grade of B

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of 9 in all sections

Applicants may be required to provide proof of proficiency in the English
language to meet licensing requirements of the [College of Physicians and
Surgeons (CPSS) of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Licensure/Requirements_Content/English_Language_Proficiency.aspx).

Applicants who graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States,
where English is the language of instruction **are not**  required to submit
proof of English language proficiency.

**Canadian applicants with medical education from the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)  are required
**to meet the English language proficiency requirements of the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan and must complete one of the language
exams listed above.

Applicants who are required to complete a language exam must submit a valid
test score in their CaRMS application **by the deadline for submission and
assignment of applications and documents.** Applicants who do not provide
acceptable proof of language proficiency, if required, will not be ranked.

Applicants must meet all of the criteria in one of the IELTS, OET or CELPIP
examinations. Please note that results from examinations cannot be combined,
unless the testing institution offers a sub-test.  
NOTE: Only OET offers sub-tests. CPSS will accept sub-tests obtained within
the same 24-month period as the original OET exam was sat.

Please direct any questions about language requirements to
[della.toews@usask.ca](mailto:della.toews@usask.ca). Applicants should not
contact CPSS directly about their eligibility for licensure.

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required and must be written by faculty members
or consultants. References should be from a clinician who has directly
observed the candidate. References from residents will not be accepted.
References are due to the CaRMS office by the reference letter deadline.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

A personal letter must be submitted along with your application. Your personal
letter should be no more than 750 words.

In your personal letter, please only address the following questions:

1\. Why have you chosen to apply to Pediatrics?  
2\. What makes you interested to train in our residency program and live in
the province of Saskatchewan?  
3\. What strengths would you bring to our program including any niche
interests or skills that you have?

NOTE: if you are applying to both the Regina and Saskatoon program sites, you
may use the same personal letter.

Custom Résumé / CV

Please use this opportunity to highlight your professional and personal
achievements.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All applicant files submitted before the deadline will be reviewed by our
selection committee. Our selection committee is composed of a diverse mix of
pediatric faculty with experience in the CaRMs file review. File review is
done using a standardized file review tool such that each file is assessed in
a consistent manner.

Applicant files are evaluated on a number of merits, including, but not
limited to: academic potential, interest in scholarly activities, leadership
in extracurricular activities, strength of reference letters, interest in our
center's pediatric training program, and the candidate's personal statement.
Our program values a broad range of electives, especially those with a focus
in pediatrics.  For electives in pediatrics, the program may contact any
elective supervisor listed on your CaRMS application for further information.
After review of documents, selected applicants, based upon the score of their
comprehensive file review, will be offered an interview. Not all applicants
meeting the minimal requirements will be offered an interview.

The final ranking process is determined primarily by a combination of the file
review and the interview scores.

The file review and interview processes are conducted in an equitable manner
with the goal to identify the candidates that best demonstrate the core values
of our program.

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held on January 29-31,
2025; both in the AM (8am-12pm CST) and/or PM (1pm-5pm CST). In accordance
with national policies, interviews will all be held virtually this year.  
  
Please note that interviews will not be conducted on weekends. Any questions
regarding interviews can be sent via email to the program administrators.  
  
In line with all Canadian Pediatric Residency Programs, candidates who will be
given an interview will be notified on Jan 13, 2025 at or shortly after 12pm
EST.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will be offered to
candidates who meet the program's criteria for entrance and meet the interview
scoring threshold based on our comprehensive, structured file review. Only
candidates who complete an interview will be considered for ranking. We are
very accommodating and will do our best to ensure you have an interview time
that suits your preferences.  
  
Virtual interviews will be conducted by a panel, including faculty and
resident members. There will also be an opportunity during the interview
period to talk with other pediatric residents in our program (via virtual
breakout groups), learn more about our program's unique features (through a
program overview by our current pediatric residents), and have the chance to
see a virtual tour of the Jim Pattison Children's Hospital.  
  
Interviews will be conducted in an equitable and culturally-sensitive manner
with the intent to identify the applicants who best fit the core values of our
program.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Our program values an applicant with a diverse range of clinical, scholarly,
leadership, and life experiences.

As a mid-sized program, our trainees have the opportunity to become deeply
involved with clinical care from an early stage of their training - therefore,
applicants who are enthusiastic, eager to learn, and self-directed will thrive
in our program.

We seek applicants who have demonstrated a strong academic standing and have
shown a clear interest in child and adolescent health.

Demonstrating performance in scholarly work and the assumption of leadership
roles in your medical school career are strengths further sought.

Residency life can be demanding; therefore, we seek applicants who show a
well-rounded approach to life with an interest in personal extracurricular
pursuits.

Further, we seek applicants with an awareness of and respect for cultural
diversity, equity, and inclusion. With a large Indigenous population in
Saskatchewan, strong candidates demonstrate an appreciation of and a respect
for the unique health care needs of Indigenous peoples.

## Program goals

The primary goal is to train emerging general pediatricians with excellent
clinical skills and a comprehensive knowledge in general pediatrics, who will
utilize their training judiciously and ethically in caring for pediatric
patients. For those who may seek further specialization, our program will help
to foster your goal of attaining a pediatric fellowship position of your
interest.

At the end of training, residents will have successfully met the requirements
as outlined in the Royal College objectives and will have gained competency to
practice as a General Pediatric consultant. Furthermore, through coaching and
modeling, residents will have a strong awareness of professionalism, equity
and cultural diversity.

## Selection process goals

The Pediatric training program at the University of Saskatchewan is committed
to a fair, equitable and transparent application process.

The Selection Committee, composed of pediatric faculty across our Department,
will rank applicants based on the following criteria:

-Interpersonal and communication skills and a commitment to teamwork and professionalism

-Clear interest in pursuing pediatrics 

-Medical school grades/class standing/awards

-Demonstration of leadership skills/functioning in a leader role as well as evidence of work as an advocate

-Demonstration of interest in pediatrics as reflected in electives, selectives, etc.

-Personal Letter demonstrating (1) an interest in Pediatrics, (2) interest in training and living in the province of Saskatchewan, and (3) strengths, interests, and/or skills that you would bring to our program. 

-Reference letters

-Demonstrated ability to be organized as evidenced by a complete application that is in accordance with our stated expectations.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is composed of the Pediatric
Residency Program Committee members and other Pediatric faculty who have
experience in reviewing CaRMs applications and utilize our CaRMs file review
form to ensure all relevant aspects of your file are reviewed thoroughly and
in a standardized manner.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
Based on the last 5 years, we received an average of around 90-100 Canadian
applicants.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  
Varies year to year depending upon the number of applicants (usually around
67%). We aim to interviews as many as possible as we believe the interview
process allows us to get to know the candidates the best.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Evaluate content and organization   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Completed one or more electives in pediatrics   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Relevant examinations have been successfully passed (if unsuccessful, then an explanation and follow-up remediation plan should be discussed). All applicants must complete a Casper exam to be eligible for consideration.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Well balanced across domains and shows evidence of team work   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Demonstrates initiative and leadership skills   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evaluates overall performance   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  A personal letter must be submitted along with your application. Your personal letter should be no more than 750 words. In your personal letter, please be sure to only address the following questions: 1\. Why have you chosen to apply to Pediatrics? 2\. What makes you interested to train in our residency program and live in the province of Saskatchewan? 3\. What strengths would you bring to our program including any niche interests or skills that you have? NOTE: if you are applying to both the Regina and Saskatoon program sites, you may use the same personal letter.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Evaluate content of letter as it pertains to your previous experiences in medicine   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in participating in research; demonstration of successful completion of research projects (presentations & publications) is an asset.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evaluate content and identify any areas of academic difficulty, the implemented supports, and evidence that demonstrates personal and academic growth   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Demonstrated through interview questions and/or interview scenarios   
Collegiality |  Demonstrated through interview scenarios and selected review of your application   
Communication skills |  Demonstrated throughout the entire interview process including reflection upon previous experiences   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrated commitment to the health and wellness of various populations in your application   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated through application and interview process   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated through application and interview process   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrated through interview questions and evidence within your application   
Professionalism |  Demonstrated through your responses interview questions and scenarios   
Scholarly activities |  We do not directly evaluate this interview component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**QUICK FACTS**

\- Our pediatric training program is comprised of 6 residents per year (24
total residents) from all over the world.

\- We have a strong core of general pediatric and community pediatric training
experiences in addition to the full complement of subspecialty pediatric
exposures. With no RCPSC fellowship programs, residents in our program have
immediate and hands-on direct contact with pediatric faculty and clinical
exposures.

\- As with all pediatric programs, we employ the use of **CBD (Competence by
Design)**  as our core assessment structure. We utilize the Elentra system as
our dashboard for data tracking.

- **Training experiences**  (rotations) are typically 2- or 4-week blocks with the majority taking place in Saskatoon. Other experiences include Regina, Prince Albert, and other community sites; opportunities for 3 electives at other accredited pediatric institutions; and self-designed selectives that meet resident educational needs and Royal College requirements.

\- Residents are **well-supported**  by their program directors,
administrative staff, and a progressive resident contract through the Resident
Doctors of Saskatchewan (RDoS). There are 4 weeks of vacation time allotted
per year in addition to 6+ days over the Christmas/New Year's time period,
personal days (if needed), and in-lieu days for statutory holidays worked.

- **Resident scholarly projects**  (research) are well supported through a network of research experts (Division Head of Pediatric Research; Department Research Coordinator; and Department of Pediatrics biostatistician). Moreover, there is a Director of Resident Research (Pediatric Faculty member) who meets routinely with residents to support their research curriculum.  A research curriculum including self-directed modules and other resources is provided to foster research development. The University of Saskatchewan also provides excellent research supports, and all residents are provided funding to present their research.

\- Another on-site resource is our well-equipped **Simulation Centre  **used
for practicing procedures and medical scenarios such as pediatric emergencies
and codes.

\- The Pediatric Program maintains a robust **academic curriculum**
(highlighted below) including protected academic half-day, simulation (high
fidelity simulation in our simulation lab as well as targeted clinical
procedural rounds), Code Navy events, wellness rounds, journal club, a variety
of resident-led and faculty-supported rounds (case rounds, topic rounds, and
interpretation rounds), physical exam rounds, critical appraisal curriculum,
Departmental Grand Rounds, practice examinations (STACERs, OSCEs, MCQs), a
longitudinal Indigenous Health curriculum based upon the CPS Indigenous
modules, a Teaching Course (TIPS), M&M Rounds, and much more.

- **Resident wellness**  is an important part of training and is supported through several resident-led and faculty-led initiatives including wellness rounds, ice cream rounds, protected biannual resident retreats, staff/resident events, resident 'fun' academic half day, CISM-specific debriefing support, and other wellness opportunities. Many of our faculty are trained in Critical Incident Stress Management (CISM) and provide resident debriefing as required. Fatigue Risk Management (FRM) and Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) are prioritized across our program, overseen by faculty-resident committees, and hold a dedicated spot during Resident Program Committee meetings. 

\- The Pediatric Program is proud to make their brand new “home base” at the
**Jim Pattison  Children's Hospital (JPCH)**, which opened in September 2019.

 **UNIVERSITY OF SASKATCHEWAN (U of S)**

The Pediatric Residency Program is affiliated with the University of
Saskatchewan, which lies directly beside the JPCH. This provides access to a
full complement of research and other academic services including their Health
Sciences Library. Access to the University of Saskatchewan's online electronic
journal archive is provided. Articles not available through the main library
or electronic journal archives can be obtained free of charge through the
interlibrary loan service. The department provides a yearly budget to
residents for updating the resources (e.g. journals and books). Residents have
access to up-to-date medical resources including UpToDate, AAP (American
Academy of Pediatrics) access, and CPS (Canadian Pediatric Society) access.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Pediatric Residency Program, akin to all other pediatric programs, employs
CBD (Competence by Design) as of July 2021. Elentra (<https://elentra.org/>)
is the chosen electronic platform for the University of Saskatchewan
Competence by Design (CBD) programming. Residents must finish all 4 stages of
pediatrics before moving to subspecialty training; for most residents this
will take 4 years.  

**CBD Stages**

The CBD stages are currently planned as follows (1 full block = 4 weeks)

TTD (Transition to Discipline): 3 blocks expected

  * Pediatric inpatient unit (CTU), junior role (4 weeks)
  * Pediatric emergency medicine (4 weeks)
  * Pediatric selective (Pediatric Infectious Diseases, Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, or Pediatric Respirology) (4 weeks)

Foundations: 13 blocks expected

  * Pediatric inpatient unit, junior role (8 weeks)
  * NICU, junior (6 weeks)
  * Regina community pediatrics and mother baby unit (4 weeks)
  * Anesthesia/Research (2 weeks/2 weeks)
  * Selectives (12 weeks; two of which from Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, Respirology, and Infectious Diseases)
  * Pediatric Surgery (4 weeks)
  * NICU, senior and/or PICU, junior (4 weeks as a PGY2)
  * Selectives (1-2 additional as a PGY2)

Core: 26 blocks expected

  * Pediatric inpatient unit, transition to senior role (4 weeks)
  * Pediatric inpatient unit, senior role (12 weeks)
  * PICU, junior (4-8 weeks)
  * PICU senior (4 weeks)
  * NICU senior (4-8 weeks)
  * Pediatric emergency medicine (4 weeks)
  * Pediatric outpatient care (8 weeks)
  * Pediatric psychiatry (4 weeks)
  * Social pediatrics (4 weeks)
  * Electives (8 weeks)
  * Community Pediatrics, Prince Albert (4 weeks)
  * Community Pediatrics/Outpatient Pediatrics (4-8 weeks)
  * Developmental Pediatrics (4 weeks)
  * Child Maltreatment (2 weeks)
  * Research (2-4 weeks)
  * Selectives (16-20 weeks)
  * Night Float - Pediatric Inpatients (8 weeks) 

Transition to Practice (TTP): 10 blocks expected

  * Pediatric inpatient unit, consultant (4 weeks)
  * NICU, senior (4 weeks)
  * Pediatric night float (4 weeks)
  * Community Pediatrics, Regina Pediatric Inpatient Unit or Regina Outpatients (4 weeks)
  * Elective (4 weeks)
  * Pediatric emergency medicine or PICU (4 weeks)
  * Selectives (12-16 weeks)

**Academic Curriculum**

_Academic Half Day (AHD)_

  * Protected time every Thursday from 12pm-4pm.
  * 1st hour is the Department of Pediatrics Grand Rounds.
  * 2nd hour is CPS Jeopardy (summer) or resident-led, faculty-supported rounds (case rounds, topic rounds, interpretation rounds) or staff-led physical exam rounds.
  * 3rd and 4th hours: Subspecialty Rounds led by pediatricians, pediatric subspecialists, and allied health specialists to cover core pediatric RCPSC objectives.
  * NOTE: starting in 2024-2025, a Transition to Practice Academic Half Day is planned for the 4th year residents, to run from October (post-written exam) to May (prior to OSCE exam). 

_Other Academic Half Day Experiences_

  * High fidelity simulation experiences in the simulation lab and targeted procedural skills practice half days will take place at least twice per year.
  * Communication Series (6 part workshop over 3 years to consolidate communication skills).
  * Wellness Rounds (2-4 hours per year).
  * Ice Cream Rounds (psychologist led rounds, twice per year).
  * Critical Appraisal certification (structured critical appraisal education).
  * Monthly resident-led, faculty-supported journal clubs to discuss important emerging literature in pediatric care.

_R4 Transition to Practice AHD_

  * Dedicated R4 curriculum from October - April
  * Topics include: transitioning into practice (interviewing, billing, etc), procedure skills and simulation, advanced communication skills, examination preparation, careers in pediatrics, and other selected topics that help to facilitate a transition into independent practice
  * Participation in the National Pediatric Transition to Practice Curriculum (2 x 3.5 hour workshops) 



_Critical Care Rounds_

  * Protected rounds for NICU and PICU residents with a rotating weekly schedule of case rounds (resident led), Grand Rounds, simulation, and morbidity/mortality rounds.

_Pediatric Emergency Medicine Half Day and Case Based Teaching or Simulation_

  * Protected curriculum on the emergency medicine rotation but may be accessible while on other rotations. Monthly Pediatric EM half-day with various presentations and discussions. Weekly case based teaching alternated with high fidelity simulation.

_Code Navy Events_

  * Unit or hospital wide simulation events conducted by pediatric and PICU staff and managed by pediatric residents; includes structured post-event debriefing and discussion.

_M &M Rounds_

  * Monthly morbidity and mortality rounds led by the PICU. Resident involvement may include attendance +/- presenting a case for discussion.

_Indigenous Child and Youth Health Course_

  * Faculty-led course designed longitudinally to provide a robust, pediatric specific Indigenous Health experience to pediatric trainees. This first year course includes a series of modules (4-5 total) with discussion led by expert faculty in addition to a culturally-immersive experience. Upon completion, residents will be equipped with the knowledge and insights to provide a more holistic and inclusive approach to their care of Indigenous patients and their families.

_TIPS_

  * A U of S led course (2 parts) in the 1st year designed to help promote residents to further develop skills in teaching and medical education.

_First Year Resident Orientation_

  * Resident Boot Camp: a 3-day program conducted by the College of Medicine for all new U of S residents with the intent to facilitate a more seamless onboarding into residency and to begin to foster a collegial network across residents and staff.
  * Program Orientation: a robust curriculum designed to help R1s transition into residency that will provide you with all the necessary knowledge, supports, and logistical information to successfully transition into our program, introduce you to our Department, and welcome you to our city.

_PALS and NRP_

  * Pediatric Advanced Life Support (PALS) and Neonatal Resuscitation Program (NRP) are provided for full certification for R1s and re-certification for R2s/R3s. BLS must be completed prior to start of residency for all incoming pediatric residents.

**Scholarly Project (Research)**

  * All residents in the program are expected to complete a scholarly project, in accordance with the RCPSC Pediatric Training Objectives.
  * Research support is provided throughout the Department with direct oversight from the Director of Resident Research (Pediatric Department Faculty Member who meets with all residents a minimum of 1-2 times per year to support research progress).
  * Residents will get exposure to research curricula within the AHD and in other settings. Opportunities to share their work and attain support will occur annually in the AHD setting.
  * Funding for residents to travel and attend pediatric conferences is available to all residents and is highly encouraged; additional funding is provided to residents who present their work at national or international conferences. 
  * Residents will all present at least once at the Pediatric Child Health Research Day (U of S) and will be encouraged to present nationally if opportunities arise.

**Resident Wellness**

  * Resident wellness is of utmost importance to us in our training program.
  * All residents will have the opportunity to meet with the program directors formally at least twice a year but may meet with the program directors at any other time as needed.
  * Wellness supports integrated within the program include: 
    * Ice cream rounds (psychologist led sessions) within the pediatric AHD
    * Resident/faculty events including a summer golf event and winter indoor and/or outdoor activities
    * Site-specific fall retreat, a full combined-site resident spring retreat & numerous other resident initiated gatherings
    * Resident representation on the Pediatric Residency Program Committee and on the wellness committee; these opportunities serve to vision for new wellness initiatives 
    * All residents are assigned an academic advisor (faculty member) who will meet with the resident 3-4+ times per year to help support the resident in academic progress (including completion of requirements under CBD)
    * Informal faculty mentorship opportunities (in addition to the assigned academic advisor).

  * EDI Committee with a standing spot on the Resident Program Committee meeting agenda.
  * Advocacy and CME around Fatigue Risk Management (FRM) is ongoing and is supported at the resident, program, and faculty levels.
  * Further support for residents is found through academic, mental health, and advocacy channels through the Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) office, the Saskatchewan Medical Association (SMA), and the Resident Doctors of Saskatchewan (RDoS). 

**Leadership**

Residents will have the chance to be involved in several committees and roles
during their residency training including, but not limited to:

  * Pediatric Lead Resident roles
  * RDoS representatives
  * Residency Program Committee involvement including: RPC representative, Wellness Committee, Selection (CaRMs committee), Curriculum Committee, Research Committee, and EDI Committee.
  * CBD (Competence by Design) leads
  * AAP (American Academy of Pediatrics) and CPS (Canadian Pediatric Society) representatives
  * AHD (Academic Half Day) representatives
  * Social Committee representatives 
  * Other involvement in clinical, educational, scholarly, advocacy and administrative initiatives

**Teaching Opportunities**

Residents have the opportunity to be involved in a myriad of structured and
unstructured teaching opportunities during their 4-year training period.
Teaching as resident-medical student pair, resident-resident pair, and
resident-faculty pair exists throughout the 4 years of the program. Formalized
teaching training - the TIPS program, R4 Transition to Practice Curriculum,
and education-based academic half-day lectures and workshops - allow for
residents to further hone their teaching skill sets. Additional opportunities
to engage in teaching or accrue education training can be arranged based on
resident interest.

**Other Program Notes**

  * The Pediatric Program in Saskatoon works in conjunction with the Regina Pediatric Program site, giving the opportunity for pediatric residents to interact with those based in Regina.

* * *

# Training Sites

The Pediatric Residency Program at the University of Saskatchewan is based in
Saskatoon, with distributed learning at other sites to compliment experiences
obtained in Saskatoon.

**Jim Pattison  Children's Hospital (JPCH)** in Saskatoon is the new
children's teaching hospital in Saskatoon, having opened its doors in
September 2019. This facility provides tertiary level care for pediatric
patients across the provinces with a 46-bed inpatient unit, PICU, NICU,
24-hour pediatric emergency department, pediatric-designed OR suites and pre-
op induction rooms, pediatric outpatient clinic, pediatric rehabilitation
facilities, and much more. The JPCH is home to a Child Life Zone and one of
the most robust Child Life services in Canada. Residents will spend the
majority of their time here, on pediatric inpatient units, intensive care,
emergency care, some outpatient care, subspecialty service, and pediatric
surgery and anesthesia. For a virtual tour, visit:
[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DDK1GjCWp94&t=9s](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DDK1GjCWp94&t=9s)

The JPCH directly abuts the **Royal University Hospital (RUH),  **the former
home of pediatric care. Residents may spend some time here at faculty offices,
meeting rooms, and for socialization.

**Alvin Buckwold Child Development Center** is located just a few minutes walk
from the JPCH. This center is comprised of our pediatric developmental
pediatrician services as well as some rehabilitation care.

**Saskatoon Pediatric Consultants (SPC)** is home to our Saskatoon-based
pediatric consultant clinic. Residents will do 1 or 2 rotations in clinic-
based outpatients general pediatrics.

**Other Saskatoon Sites** include the opportunity to participate in **Social
Pediatrics**  (this entails providing care for children and adolescents,
located directly within several Saskatoon schools). Given our unique patient
population and distribution of patients across a large province, other
opportunities for clinical experiences may include: **Northern Saskatchewan
Clinics  **(including sites such as La Ronge and La Loche), **Sanctum 1.5
**(a home in Saskatchewan for high risk moms and their babies), the **REACH
Clinics  **(for immigrant and refugee families)

**Regina General Hospital (RGH)** in Regina is located 2 hours South of
Saskatoon. This is home to the Regina site program for Pediatrics. Residents
based out of Saskatoon will complete 1-2 rotations during their training in
Regina. All 1st year residents complete a block of community pediatrics and
mother-baby unit exposure; during the 4th year, residents may complete a block
of Regina community pediatrics along with some exposure to select subspecialty
clinics; alternatively, 4th year residents may complete a general pediatric,
community-based experience at other centers (Prince Albert, Swift Current) in
our province.

**Victoria Hospital (Prince Albert, SK)** is located 1.5 hours North of
Saskatoon. This center has an established group of general pediatricians and
is the site of a 2nd or 3rd year rotation in community pediatrics. Exposures
to outpatient/office based pediatric care, some inpatient care, and some
neonatal care will occur at this site.

**Distributive Learning at the University of Saskatchewan**

The College of Medicine, while physically located in Saskatoon, is a
provincial resource in attitude and in practice. Postgraduate medical
education at the University of Saskatchewan takes seriously its role in
supporting quality health care to all people of the province. This means
training physicians to meet the needs of, not only urban populations, but also
those of rural and remote populations. In so doing, the College of Medicine
has developed, and continues to develop, rotations in Regina and other
communities. These rotations are designed to provide educational experiences
to enhance the resident's knowledge and skills, and take maximum advantage of
unique educational opportunities in a diversity of communities. All
postgraduate programs are expected to develop and incorporate into their
curriculum, rotations across the province. The manner in which each program
does this is not strictly prescribed by the College of Medicine - but is
determined by the Residency Program Committee, taking into consideration the
needs of their residents, and the excellent opportunities available in other
locations. These rotations continue to evolve as we seek to build stronger and
better programs.

Extensive support is available for rotations completed at other sites in the
province. The exact nature of this support varies with location and program.
The communities involved, individual programs, the College of Medicine, and
the Ministry of Health work collaboratively to ensure residents are not
financially disadvantaged by the need to relocate. Temporary housing is
available at no expense to residents who leave their home site to complete
short term mandatory rotations at distributed sites in Saskatchewan. Please
review the [PGME Housing Guidelines](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/pgme-
housing-guidelines-pgme-housing-application-for-short-term-mandatory-
rotation.php#relatedForms) for more detailed information.

While all residents are strongly encouraged to take advantage of educational
experiences in other communities to ensure a well rounded education, the
amount and format of such time is determined by the program committee.

* * *

# Additional Information

All incoming R1 residents are required to complete BLS prior to starting.

PLEASE NOTE:

\- PALS (Pediatric Advanced Life Support) will be provided upon entry.

\- NRP (Neonatal Resuscitation Program) will be provided upon entry.

* * *

# FAQ

**Question:** What is the relationship between the Saskatoon and Regina sites?

**Answer:  **Our program director oversees the Pediatric Residency sites in
both Saskatoon and Regina. In Saskatoon, there is also an associate program
director (Dr. Erin Woods), while in Regina there is a site director (Dr.
Shauna Flavelle).

Pediatric trainees accepted into the Saskatoon site complete most of their
mandatory training in Saskatoon except for a 1 block rotation in in Regina
(PGY1) in community pediatrics and the mother-baby unit, 1 block of Pediatrics
in Prince Albert (PGY2), and 1 block of Community Pediatrics (senior rotation)
in one of several Saskatchewan cities outside of Saskatoon (PGY4).  Saskatoon
trainees may choose to spend additional time in or near Regina in community
pediatrics, child maltreatment, developmental pediatrics, Indigenous health,
or ambulatory pediatrics. Furthermore, Saskatoon-based residents may spend
additional time in Prince Albert or other pediatric partner sites in
Saskatchewan to broaden their pediatric expertise and be exposed to new
clinical experiences.

The overall resident and faculty relationship between the Saskatoon and Regina
sites is highly integrated and supportive.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27091?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27091