#  Queen’s University - Anesthesiology - Kingston  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on February 19, 2025

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 5

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Jordan Leitch  

Address Anesthesiology and Perioperative Medicine  
Kingston Health Sciences Centre, KGH Site  
76 Stuart Street  
Kingston K7L 2V7, Ontario, K7L 2V7  

Work  (613) 548-2482

Work

Websites of Interest [ Department of Anesthesiology and Perioperative Medicine
](https://anesthesiology.queensu.ca/)  
[ Queen's University Anesthesiology Postgraduate Program
](https://anesthesiology.queensu.ca/academics/postgraduate)  
[ Residency Program Instagram Account
](https://www.instagram.com/queensanesthesia)  
[ AFMC Web Calendar of Events ](https://canprepp.ca/)  
[ Departmental Twitter Account ](https://twitter.com/QueensPeriopMed)  
[ Queen's University Anesthesiology & Perioperative Medicine
](https://anesthesiology.queensu.ca/)  
[ Queen's Postgraduate Medical Education
](https://meds.queensu.ca/academics/postgraduate)  
[ Queen's University ](http://www.queensu.ca)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Ms. Deborah Leach

Title: Postgraduate Program Assistant

Email: Deborah.Leach@kingstonhsc.ca

Phone: (613) 548-2482

  

Name: Dr. Jordan Leitch

Title: Program Director

Email: Jordan.Leitch@kingstonhsc.ca

Phone: (613) 548-2482

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Electives**

We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have completed a broad range
of electives including in our discipline.

We do not require applicants to have done on-site electives.



COVID-19 vaccination requirements:

Please refer to the 'Restrictions' section of the [Ontario eligibility
criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/) for messaging regarding COVID-19 vaccination requirements.

**EDIIA Institutional Statement:**

The goal of resident selection is to identify trainees likely to succeed both
in training and, once out in practice, in meeting the health care needs of
patients and Canadian society.  We know that having a physician workforce that
reflects the demographics of the patients that they serve improves health care
outcomes.  There are many populations within Canada under-represented in
medicine (UIM) with a paucity of health care practitioners who are Black,
Indigenous, Persons of Colour, 2SLGBTQ+, from lower socioeconomic backgrounds
and/or with disabilities, and other under-represented in medicine (UIM)
groups. Diversity within training programs has also been shown to improve
training environments.  Queen’s University PGME is strongly committed to
diversity and inclusion within its community for these reasons as well as
being part of the solution to address historic and contemporary inequities.

**Equity and diversity**

We welcome diversity among our trainees and seek to foster an environment that
is welcoming to all, regardless of gender identity, race, religion, or sexual
orientation.

We are committed to advancing equitable and inclusive practices.  Please refer
to the [PGME website](https://meds.queensu.ca/academics/postgraduate/faculty-
staff/applicant-selection) for additional information / resources including
[QHS EDIIA Initiatives](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi) and [EDIIA
statements](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi/accessibility-
statements) (Indigenous Land Acknowledgement, Anti-Discrimination Statement,
Inclusion Statement, and Statement on Social Accountability)

**Gaps in Training, Remediation, or Professionalism issues**

Please address any gaps in training, remediation, or professionalism issues in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count.

* * *

# Return of Service

If you have a ROS agreement in another province please ensure you aware of the
commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Please note that due to the volume of applications our program receives we are
not able to provide individual feedback to applicants who are not successful
in the match.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three confidential references are required from staff physicians. If possible,
one or more reference letters from a faculty member from Anesthesiology is
helpful, but not required.** ** We realize that this may not be possible this
year with the restrictions on electives and reassure you that this will not be
detrimental to your application. If three letters of reference are not
received by the due date, the candidate's application is deemed to be
incomplete, and the candidate may not be considered for an interview.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  700

  

A personal letter is required. Word count should not exceed 700. Candidates
may wish to describe important achievements, extracurricular activities,
personal goals during residency, career aspirations or anything else that can
give the selection committee an idea of who the candidate is as a person.

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Documents that are not in English must be accompanied by a notarized
translation. Students applying in the last year of medical school will need to
submit their most recent marks/transcripts, and will need to provide proof of
their MD to CPSO prior to the start of residency training.

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held on the following
dates:  
  
Monday, January 27, 2025  
  
Tuesday, January 28, 2025  
  
Wednesday, January 29, 2025  
  
Thursday, January 30, 2025  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Our interviews will be conducted
using the Zoom platform.  
  
Candidates will have **two**  separate interviews.  One interview with Dr.
Leitch, our Program Director and Dr. Cenkowski, our Assistant Program
Director.  The other interview with two residents.  Each interview will be 20
minutes in duration.  Immediately following these interviews there will be a
separate Zoom session for candidates to have an informal Question and Answer
session with some of our residents.  
  
Prior to the interviews, candidates will be provided with recorded material
about the program that applicants may access at their convenience.  
  
Also, during the months of November, December and January we will be hosting
Town Hall information sessions and Meet and Greet sessions with our Program
Director, Assistant Program Director, as well as sessions with our Residents
by Zoom.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

An academic record which demonstrates proficiency in subjects particularly
relevant to anesthesia.

References which attest to an interest in, as well as cognitive and technical
suitability for, the specialty of anesthesia.

Excellent communication skills.

We welcome diversity among our trainees, and seek to foster an environment
that is welcoming to all, regardless of gender identity, race, religion, or
sexual orientation.

## Program goals

The Queen's Anesthesiology Residency is dedicated to the development of
physicians who exemplify the priciples of the World Medical Association's
Declaration of Geneva.  The Queen's Anesthesiology Residency seeks to educate
resident anesthesiologists using the CanMEDs framework to fulfill the Royal
College Objectives of Specialty Training in Anesthesiology.

The Royal College Anesthesiology Competencies:
<https://www.royalcollege.ca/content/dam/documents/ibd/anesthesiology-(anes)/anesthesiology-
competencies-e.pdf>

The Royal College Anesthesiology Training Experiences:
<https://www.royalcollege.ca/content/dam/documents/ibd/anesthesiology-(anes)/anesthesiology-
training-experiences-e.pdf>  



## Selection process goals

The Selection Process is designed to identify candidates with a high
probability of successfully completing the postgraduate anesthesiology program
at Queen's University, in Kingston, Ontario.  It aims to identify candidates
with exemplary skills in all of the CanMEDs roles: medical expert,
communicator, collaborator, leader, health advocate, scholar and professional.
We are looking for candidates with the potential to become comprehensive,
compassionate and competent anesthesiologists, who will be outstanding
physicians within their respective communities, to become stewards of the
profession as clinicians, researchers, educators and administrators, with a
dedication to lifelong learning and the advancement of anesthesiology.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our file review is conducted by the Program
Director, Assistant Program Director and two other staff anesthesiologists.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Organized and professional review of pertinent accomplishments.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Evidence of interest in Anesthesiology.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Activities contributing to a humanistic and well rounded individual.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership contributions in any realm.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Performance in all CanMeds domains.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Insight into Anesthesiology and one's self. Interest in Queen's program and Kingston   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Personal and professional qualities of a successful anesthesia resident.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research history, publication/presentation, experience with methodology. interest in Anesthesiology.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence of excellent skills necessary to work effectively with others towards a common goal.   
Collegiality |  Able to contribute and cooperate with colleagues with a shared responsibility.   
Communication skills |  Effective and efficient ability to facilitate the gathering and sharing of essential information.   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrated advocacy for patient health.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated insight into and interest in anesthesiology.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest in Queen's Anesthesiology.   
Leadership skills |  Evidence of meaningful service and leadership roles.   
Professionalism |  Evidence of professional ethics, high personal standards of behaviour & accountability.   
Scholarly activities |  Demonstrate commitment to excellence through learning, teaching, critical thinking & scholarship.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Anesthesiology program at Queen's University is fully accredited by the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada and complies with all of
their standards and policies. We are committed to providing our residents with
exceptional training in order for them to be successful in their FRCPC exams
and their career.

The relatively small size of the program allows for a close relationship
between the faculty and the residents.  This enables a rapid progression to
independent activities for individual residents.  To help residents meet their
career goals, they are assigned a faculty Academic Advisor for each stage of
the program.

**Transition to Discipline  **(Total of 2 blocks) ** **  
---  
|  **Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location / Notes**  
---|---|---  
Anesthesia  |  2 blocks/8 weeks  |  Kingston General Hospital/Hotel Dieu Hospital   
  |   | Clinical OR time, simulation, seminars, independent learning modules  
  


  
  


**Foundations**  (Total of 18 blocks)

  
---  
|  **Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location / Notes**  
---|---|---  
Anesthesia   |  9 blocks  |  Kingston General Hospital/Hotel Dieu Hospital   
Pediatric Anesthesia |  1 block  |  Kingston General Hospital/Hotel Dieu Hospital    
Obstetrics/Obstetric Anesthesia  |  2 blocks  |  Kingston General Hospital    
Acute Pain/ Regional Anesthesia |  1 block |  Kingston General Hospital/Hotel Dieu Hospital   
General Surgery    |  1 block |  Kingston General Hospital/Hotel Dieu Hospital    
Resuscitation/PocUS/Emergency Medicine   |  1 block |  Kingston General Hospital  
Internal Medicine |  2 blocks |  Kingston General Hospital  
Pediatrics (Ward/COPC) |   
1 block |   
Kingston General Hospital/Hotel Dieu Hospital  
  
**Core**(Total of 36 blocks)** ** ** **  
---  
|  **Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location / Notes**  
---|---|---  
Anesthesia |   
11 blocks |  Kingston General Hospital / Hotel Dieu Hospital   
Adult Intensive Care Unit  |  4 blocks of Med/Surg Adult ICU, Cardiac ICU, and Resuscitation Medicine  |  Kingston General Hospital   
Perioperative Medicine/Satellite Anesthesia |  1 block |  Kingston General Hospital  
Neuroanesthesia |  2 blocks |  Kingston General Hospital   
Pediatric Anesthesia  |  3 blocks  |  CHEO    
Respirology/Thoracic Anesthesia  |  3 blocks |  Kingston General Hospital  
Acute Pain  
Chronic Pain  
Regional Anesthesia  |  3 blocks |  Kingston General Hospital/Hotel Dieu Hospital/KOPI   
Obstetrical Anesthesia |  1 block |  Kingston General Hospital  
Cardiac Anesthesia/Echo/TEE  |  2 blocks |  Kingston General Hospital   
Airway/ENT |  1 block |  Kingston General Hospital/Hotel Dieu Hospital   
Vascular/Transplant/Thoracic  |  2 blocks |   Kingston General Hospital/Hotel Dieu Hospital  
  
**Transition to Practice**  (Total of 9 blocks)



**Rotation** | **Duration** |  **Location/Notes**  
---|---|---  
Perioperative Medicine/Satellite/Pre-Anesthesia Clinics |  1 block      |  Kingston General Hospital/Hotel Dieu Hospital  
Obstetrical Anesthesia |  1 block | Kingston General Hospital   
Anesthesia  |  7 blocks | Kingston General Hopsital/Hotel Dieu Hospital   
  


The Transition to Practice stage focuses on these areas listed below:

Independent practice

Quality Assurance

Teaching

Leadership and Managerial skills





**Electives during Foundations, Core and Transition to Pratice Rotations**

Elective Rotations - Up to 6 blocks of elective time may be taken, which may
include subspecialty areas of anesthesia, research or other areas of medicine
which may contribute to the advancement of one's education in anesthesia.
Electives are arranged in consultation with the Program Director.  Many
residents undertake international electives and opportunities for anesthesia
in developing countries is available.

  
---  
|  **Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location / Notes**  
---|---|---  
Anesthesia   |  6 months   |  TBA   
  
The Academic Program

The academic program is based upon the National Curriculum, the Entrustable
Professional Activities and the milestones as outlined by the Royal College,
using academic seminars and independent study modules. These seminars run bi-
weekly from September to June. The topics run on a two-year cycle for
Foundations and Core and once a year cycle for Transition to Discipline. All
Transition to Discipline, Foundations and Core residents attend these
seminars. There are practice MCQ examinations.  Formal oral examinations are
conducted in September and January of each year for all residents, and
additionally in May for our Transition to Practice residents.

All residents are involved in our simulator program. The simulation program is
tailored to resident level and compliment the academic seminar program. They
provide an exceptional hands-on experience to complement the clinical learning
opportunities.  These sessions are both educational and evaluative.

Foundations residents take part in Boot Camp and a 3-day Airway Workshop.
Time in the simulator is an important part of these courses.

Academic Program seminars are supplemented by weekly Grand Rounds (prepared by
staff and residents) on Wednesday mornings, Case Management and Simulation
Rounds on Friday mornings, Cardiac Anesthesia and TEE Rounds every other
Tuesday morning, Ultrasound Guided Regional Anesthesia Rounds every month as
well as Journal Club events 4-5 times per year.

The Visiting Professorship Program provides both our residents and faculty
with continuing education and an opportunity to interact with recognized
experts in our specialty.  We usually have three-four guest lecturers per
year.

All residents are provided with formal instruction in the principles and
practice of transthoracic echocardiography.  In conjunction with formal
clinical hands on training in focused TTE, our residents are able to become
proficient in the use of this modality.

  
  

Additional training

In addition, residents are continually exposed to, and gain experience in
other areas such as anesthesia in remote locations (MRI, CV Lab, Radiology,
etc), pre-anesthetic assessment clinics and trauma/emergency call. Obstetrical
anesthesia and acute pain are both covered by residents while on call, as well
as having a dedicated rotation in each early in their training.

All residents acquire certification in advanced cardiac life support (ACLS),
advanced trauma life support (ATLS), and neonatal resuscitation program (NRP)
as part of their residency program. Residents receive support from the
department for completion of these courses. Opportunities to undertake
neonatal and pediatric anesthesia occur throughout the residency, and this
experience supplements the mandatory three month rotation at a children's
hospital (eg. CHEO). Residents are expected to do 1 month out of Kingston
during their training in a community site (Peterborough, Humber River and
Oshawa) in addition to 3 months away doing Pediatrics.

More information can be found on our website:
<http://anesthesiology.queensu.ca/>

  
  

Research

Residents are expected, during their Core years, and with the guidance and
help from the staff, to undertake a scholarly project.  These can be a
clinical or basic sciences research project, a quality assurance project, a
research project in the area of medical education, or any other scholarly
project in areas relevant to academic anesthesiology.  All residents attend an
introductory research course as well as core seminars on critical appraisal
and research methods. In addition there are regular Journal Clubs throughout
the year. Each spring Resident Research Day is the time the residents present
their findings to a panel of judges. Many clinical projects have gone on to be
presented at national and international meetings. These research projects
offer a useful and interesting insight into the critical evaluation of the
literature and into clinical research methods.

Residents receive support to attend annual conferences and present research
papers, at the discretion of the Program Director.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

Kingston Health Sciences Centre: Kingston General Hospital site / Hotel Dieu
Hospital site

Providence Care Hospital

Humber River Hospital (community experience)

Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario (pediatric anesthesia rotation)

Lakeridge Health Centre (Oshawa) (critical care, anesthesia)

Peterborough Regional Health Centre (community experience)

* * *

# Additional Information

The Surroundings

Kingston is a lovely medium-sized city in which to live. Settled more than 300
years ago, the historic buildings offer a quaint backdrop for the modern
coffee shops and restaurants in the bustling downtown area. The hospitals are
situated in close proximity to both Queen's University and the downtown area.
Kingston General Hospital is located right on the shore of Lake Ontario where
Olympic caliber sailing and windsurfing opportunities abound. Several nearby
provincial parks offer superb canoeing, camping and other outdoor sports such
as cross country skiing, biking, and triathlon.

The Health Sciences Complex enjoys a close relationship both physically and
academically with Queen's University. Through Queen's, there is ready access
to facilities for both the arts and athletics.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26509?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26509