#  University of Ottawa - Emergency Medicine - Ottawa

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 9 click here

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Jeffrey Landreville  

Address Emergency  
Ottawa Hospital - Civic Campus  
1053 Carling Ave., F-Main, Room EM-206  
Ottawa, ON K1Y 4E9 , Ontario, K1Y 4E9  

(613)798-5555 ext. 18649

Websites of Interest [ Department of Emergency Medicine, Univ. of Ottawa
](https://med.uottawa.ca/emergency/residency-education/rcpsc)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Jeffrey Landreville

Title: RCPSC EM Program Director

Email: jlandreville@toh.ca

  

Name: Dr. Michael Ho

Title: RCPSC EM Associate Program Director

Email: miho@toh.ca

  

Name: Dr. Lauren Lacroix

Title: RCPSC EM Assistant Program Director

Email: lalacroix@toh.ca

  

Name: Lise Levesque

Title: Postgraduate Administrator

Email: lilevesque@toh.ca

Phone: 798-5555 ext. 18649

  

* * *

# Important Information

**All candidates must meet the Ontario Criteria of Eligibility**  found
[here](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-criteria/provincial-
criteria/ontario/).

**COVID-19 vaccination**

Please be aware that most, if not all, hospitals in Ontario have mandatory
COVID-19 vaccination policies in place that require, in the absence of a valid
medical or human rights exemption, proof of vaccination. Acceptable
vaccination must be in accordance with Health Canada. You will be required to
provide an attestation that you meet this requirement as part of the CaRMS
application process and any actual documentation will be collected by the
appropriate institution if matched. These guidelines could change at any time
in accordance with future direction from the Ministry of Health or the
Universities based on information from Public Health.

**MCCQE (Medical Council of Canada qualifying examination) Part 1 results** :

Trainees will be required to disclose their MCCQE Part 1 examination results
**if taken** , upon entry into any of the University of Ottawa's training
programs. **Please note that the MCCQE Part 1 is  not a requirement to begin
residency.** The purpose of this disclosure is to allow for resources to be
provided to the few residents who would benefit from extra support early in
their residency in an effort to maximize their success.

**Failure to meet or provide proof of any of the stated requirements may
result in an applicant’s file not being reviewed or removed from the Rank
Order List.**

**CaRMS Self Identification Questionnaire**

The University of Ottawa Emergency Medicine Residency Program is strongly
committed to the principles of equity, diversity and inclusion (EDI).

The CaRMS Self-Identity Questionnaire (CSIQ) will**  not** be used in the
selection process. For those that submit, the information received will be
used in an anonymized data format to support post-CaRMS program evaluation to
assess the efficacy of our diversification and anti-biasing strategies.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

All candidates must meet the Ontario criteria of eligibility.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  * Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  * Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  * Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  * Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Emergency Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Three structured reference letters are required. These can be completed by
faculty members within the field of emergency medicine, or other related
specialties. Letters from senior residents will not be reviewed.



Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

A personal letter is mandatory. The letter should address the applicant's
strengths, suitability to Emergency medicine, and career goals. Specific
attention to identifying interest and experience in academic activities will
be expected, as will reasons why you think you'd be a good emergency resident.
Maximum 500 words.

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Used for memory aid

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

File Review:

The entire CaRMS file will be reviewed by at least 5 individuals who will each
score the file. Those with the highest average scores among the selection team
will be invited for an interview. We invite approximately 50 CMG  students for
an interview this year.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 31, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interview Day: Friday, January 31st, 2025.
There will be a virtual social on the evening of Thursday, January 30th, 2025.  
  
Applicants will be informed by the Postgraduate Administrator by e-mail as to
whether they have received an invitation for an interview.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: There will be three interviews for
each candidate. The interview teams will consist of Emergency Medicine Faculty
and Senior Residents.  
  
As described above, there will be a virtual social on the evening of Thursday,
January 30th, 2025.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Our final ranking process incorporates both the file review and interview (see
previous sections). Please note that we are not able to provide feedback to
those candidates who are not selected for an interview.  

## Program goals

Our Emergency Medicine Program at the University of Ottawa is designed to
graduate clinicians with exceptional skills, while providing our trainees the
opportunity to foster their own interests within emergency medicine.   In
doing so, we produce the leaders of tomorrow in our great specialty.

Our goal is to help foster a community of wellness, mentorship and camaraderie
that will set residents up for success both during and after residency.

## Selection process goals

In order to become an emergency medicine physician with excellent clinical
skills and who is a leader in our specialty, we seek applicants that want to
be the best they can be.  We look for residents who are coachable, hard
working and have a positive attitude.

Serious consideration will be given to candidates who fulfill the following
selection criteria:



-Demonstrated excellent academic achievement

-Experience and/or formal training in Emergency Medicine

-Recent graduate from Medical School or an advanced training program

-Demonstrated proficiency in English

-Demonstrated interest in and knowledge of the Canadian Health Care System



Our program is committed to inclusion, and recognizes that many groups are
underrepresented in our specialty. File reviewers and interviewers are
selected intentionally to ensure diversity, and undergo anti-bias training as
a standard to mitigate conscious and unconscious biases. We value equity and
diversity, and aim to systemically counteract systems of oppression.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our Review Team is made up of the Program Director,
Associate Program Director, Assistant Program Director, Competence Committee
members, involved faculty and dedicated residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Reviewed.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Reviewed. Some EM electives if possible, however we recognize that not all applicants will have had the opportunity for an EM elective.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Not Reviewed.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Reviewed.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Reviewed.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Reviewed.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Reviewed.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Reviewed. Comments on whether the applicant will be an excellent EM resident and EM physician.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Reviewed. Please include in your CV.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Reviewed.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We recognize that not all students will be able to complete an elective in
Ottawa due to the limited spot available. Competitive candidates will have
demonstrated a strong interest in emergency medicine by way of elective
training and rotations done in their own medical schools as well other
institutions (this however does not necessarily mean that _all_ your electives
must be in emergency medicine). Having participated in scholarly work in the
field of Emergency Medicine is encouraged but is not a mandatory requirement.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  This component is evaluated in the interview   
Collegiality |  This component is evaluated in the interview   
Communication skills |  This component is evaluated in the interview   
Health advocacy |  This component is evaluated in the interview   
Interest in the discipline |  This component is evaluated in the interview   
Interest in the program |  This component is evaluated in the interview   
Leadership skills |  This component is evaluated in the interview   
Professionalism |  This component is evaluated in the interview   
Scholarly activities |  This component is evaluated in the interview   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Welcome from the  Program Directors!**

Welcome to the University of Ottawa’s RCPSC Emergency Medicine Residency! Our
exemplary residency program in emergency medicine at the University of Ottawa
is designed to graduate clinicians with excellent clinical skills, while
providing our trainees the opportunity to foster their own interests within
emergency medicine and in doing so, produce the leaders of tomorrow of our
great specialty.

One of our huge strengths is the dedication of our 90 plus emergency staff
physicians to the residency training program.  Our physician group includes
national and international experts in many fields - all who have a love for
emergency medicine and for training residents.  The support that is received
from this group is evident by way of continuous teaching, coaching, academic
support, resources, social events and mentorship for the residents.  It is
clearly an environment where staff and residents work well together to train
and succeed.

The residents are the backbone of our program. Our goal is to support our
residents not only academically, but also personally and professionally. The
program is one that embraces the core tenants of equity, diversity and
inclusion to ensure that we meet the needs of our residents.

Our core training sites include the Ottawa Hospital General Campus, The Ottawa
Hospital Civic Campus and the Children’s Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO).

Recent fellowships that our residents have pursued include: Critical Care,
Prehospital and Transport Medicine, Point of Care Ultrasonography, Simulation
Education, Toxicology, Pain Medicine, Palliative Care, Paediatric Emergency
Medicine, Masters of Science in Clinical Epidemiology, Masters of Medical
Education, Masters of Health Administration, Masters of Business
Administration, and Masters of Quality Improvement and Patient Safety.

Meeting the PDs: We’d like the opportunity to meet with you! Every fall, the
PDs host regular in-person meetings with groups of medical students who are
interested in our program. If you are interested in attending one of these
meetings, please contact our program administrator, Lise Levesque
([lilevesque@toh.ca](mailto:lilevesque@toh.on.ca)). We recognize that not
everyone will have the opportunity to visit Ottawa and meet us in person. We
will be holding a virtual panel discussion with the PDs, chief residents and a
few other residents and staff followed by an open Q&A. Date and Sign-up
Information for the current CaRMS cycle, will be available at the end of
August through our social media accounts (see links below).

Finally, Ottawa is a fantastic place to live! It is a beautiful urban,
multicultural city with great nightlife, fantastic restaurants and active
music, arts and cultural scenes. There are more festivals in Ottawa than any
city in Canada celebrating everything from poutine and beer to all musical
genres. Ottawa is a city for the active as well with its extensive
cycling/walking/cross-country skiing pathways, Rideau canal, beaches, Gatineau
park and nearby skiing.

We look forward to meeting you!

Jeff Landreville, Mike Ho & Lauren Lacroix



**Follow us at: @rcpscemottawa**

(https://www.instagram.com/rcpscemottawa/)

(https://twitter.com/rcpscemottawa)

(https://emottawablog.com)







* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Royal College has implemented Competence by Design (CBD) in Emergency
Medicine (EM) in Canada and the University of Ottawa EM Program has embraced
this exciting curriculum.  CBD is perfect for Ottawa EM because it ensures
competence, but teaches for excellence - that’s our style.

One of our huge strengths is the diversity of talent within our faculty that
includes over 90 physicians. Our group includes national and international
experts in simulation, EMS, ultrasound, medical education, forensics,
toxicology, quality improvement, journal editing; our teachers have been
awarded in excellence and have been rated among the best in the Faculty of
Medicine. Importantly, our researchers are highly recognized internationally
for their major research contributions to emergency medicine (if you are
interested in doing research in emergency medicine, the University of Ottawa
is definitely the place for you).  But remember - you don't have to want to be
a researcher to come to Ottawa.

We are excited to announce the incorporation of several new components of our
residency program. These include patient advocacy; equity, diversity and
inclusion; implicit bias and a robust transition to practice curriculum.

Our core training sites include the Ottawa Hospital General Campus, The Ottawa
Hospital Civic Campus and the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO).

Curriculum

The Emergency Medicine program follows the Royal College designed Competence
by Design Curriculum.

Throughout the four stages of CBD (Transition to Discipline, Foundations, Core
and Transition to Practice), residents complete:



33 blocks of Adult Emergency Medicine

6 blocks of Paediatric Emergency Medicine

1 block of Prehospital and Transport Medicine

2 blocks of Internal Medicine

1 block of General Surgery

1 block of Orthopaedics

2 blocks of Anesthesia

1 block of Psychiatry

1 block of Obstetrics/Gynaecology

1 block of Neurology (Stroke/Consults)

3 blocks of Adult ICU

2 blocks of Cardiology / CCU

1 block or Elective Critical Care Experience (Emergency Medicine, Paediatrics
ICU, Adult ICU)

1 block of Trauma

1 block of Toxicology

3 blocks of Electives

We've also developed local modules to specifically address the competencies
in: Neurosurgery, and Plastic Surgery

In this new curriculum, residents are also required to complete six months in
an area of concentrated expertise (ACE), or previously known as an area of
subspecialty.  Our residents have the opportunity to pursue any area of
interest to them that relates to emergency medicine.  Historically our
residents have completed fellowships in Critical Care, Prehospital and
Transport Medicine, Point of Care Ultrasonography, Simulation Education,
Toxicology, Pain Medicine, Palliative Care, Paediatric Emergency Medicine,
Masters of Science in Clinical Epidemiology, Masters of Medical Education,
Masters of Health Administration, Masters of Business Administration, and
Masters of Quality Improvement and Patient Safety. We are open to studying any
field that supports a career in Emergency Medicine.

Scholarly Project  
  

The Department of Emergency Medicine at the University of Ottawa has a world
renowned program in emergency medicine scholarship. All residents are expected
to produce a research or educational project supported by our research faculty
and administrative team. Presentation at our Annual Research Day and
preparation of a draft manuscript is required. Many residents present their
work and national/international conferences and successfully publish in peer-
reviewed journals.

  
  

Academic Full Day

There is a weekly, protected academic **full day  **for all Emergency Medicine
residents. This consists of emergency medicine grand rounds, core rounds, case
presentations, practice oral examinations and other activities. A core content
seminar series (based on the Rosen's textbook and more) covers the required
knowledge content, over the course of the residency. During the afternoon,
simulation sessions occur in our state-of-the-art Simulation Centre. We are
continuously using resident feedback to ensure that all of our academic
activities are as high-yield as possible.



Other Rounds

Journal Club, Medical Education Journal Club, Point-of-Care Ultrasound Journal
Club and Trauma Rounds are held monthly.

  
  

Courses and Funding

The DEM covers the cost of ACLS, ATLS and PALS. Many of our residents become
ACLS and ATLS instructors. Additional funding exists for books and courses and
when our residents are presenting their work at national or international
conferences.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

-[Department of Emergency Medicine](https://med.uottawa.ca/emergency/residency-education/rcpsc) 

-[Ottawa Hospital - Civic and General Campuses](https://www.ottawahospital.on.ca/) 

-[Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario](https://www.cheo.on.ca/en/index.aspx) 

-[Ottawa Hosptial Research Institute](https://www.ohri.ca//) 

* * *

# Additional Information

**Restricted Registration Licenses**

Residents in excellent standing in the Royal College residency in emergency
medicine at the University of Ottawa are eligible for restricted licenses that
permit them to "moonlight" at community hospitals during their senior years.





* * *

# FAQ

Meeting the PDs: We’d like the opportunity to meet with you! Every fall, the
PDs host regular in-person meetings with groups of medical students who are
interested in our program. If you are interested in attending one of these
meetings, please contact our program administrator, Lise Levesque
([lilevesque@toh.ca](mailto:lilevesque@toh.on.ca)). We recognize that not
everyone will have the opportunity to visit Ottawa and meet us in person. We
will be holding a virtual panel discussion with the PDs, chief residents and a
few other residents and staff followed by an open Q&A. Date and Sign-up
Information for the current CaRMS cycle will be available at the end of August
through our social media accounts (see links below).

We look forward to meeting you!

Jeff Landreville, Mike Ho & Lauren Lacroix



**Follow us at: @rcpscemottawa**

(https://www.instagram.com/rcpscemottawa/)

(https://twitter.com/rcpscemottawa)

(https://emottawablog.com)



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26932?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26932