#  McMaster University - Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery - Hamilton

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on November 05, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Han Zhang  

Address Otolaryngology - Head & Neck Surgery  
St. Joseph's Healthcare Hospital  
hanzhang@stjosham.on.ca  
  

Work

Fax

Websites of Interest [ McMaster University - Otolaryngology Head & Neck
Surgery ](https://surgery.mcmaster.ca/divisions/otolaryngology-head-and-neck-
surgery)  
[ Competency-Based Medical Education (CBME) ](https://cbmepg.mcmaster.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Han Zhang

Title: Program Director

Email: hanzhang@stjosham.on.ca

  

Name: Bianca Mazur

Title: Program Administrator

Email: mazurb@mcmaster.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/).  It is important to review the
requirements carefully.

To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit:
<https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/>

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

The maximum number of reference documents that can be requested by a program
is three (3). We recommend references from academic physicians.  Every
reference letter is read. We do not accept references from senior residents.
Please see Selections Criteria. Late references will not be accepted until the
interview date for those candidates short-listed for interview.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Ophthalmological Report

It is highly recommended the applicant provides a written report from an
Ophthalmologist or Optometrist stating the applicant's visual status,
including stereopsis and colour vision.

Abstract/Publications

Custom Résumé / CV

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

3 reference letters from physicians are requested from each applicant.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 29, 2025

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The interviews for the McMaster
University Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery CMG Stream will take place
virtually on January 29, 2025.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

-An acceptable academic record

-A convincing demonstration in the sincere interest in Otolaryngology -Head & Neck Surgery as a career choice.

-References from academic physicians attesting to enthusiasm, learning ability, proficiency and exemplary interpersonal skills.

-Publication on any topic as an indication of industry and perseverance (any scientific paper).

-Candidates with a demonstrated interest in clinical or basic science research are encouraged.

-Demonstrated or presumed sufficient bimanual dexterity and hand eye coordination to perform delicate surgery.

-Empathy, sensitivity, maturity and excellent communication ability.

-References attesting to exemplary moral attitude, breadth of outlook and character, achievements in extracurricular activities, and community contribution.

## Program goals

The residency training program is a 5-year program with two Ontario Ministry
of Health funded residents each year. During the first 2 years, trainees
receive Surgical Foundations (SF) training. During SF training, residents do 2
weeks of boot camp with SF, 6 weeks on-service for the _Transition to
Discipline_ stage, 3 blocks on-service and 8 blocks off-service the first year
for the _Foundations of Discipline_ stage. The second year of training, the
residents are on-service the entire year completing _Foundations of
Discipline_ and starting the Core stage of the CBD. The remaining 48 months
are spent on-service with 2 months of elective time. The Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons is transitioning to a new competency-based approach
called Competence by Design (CBD). Our program welcomed the first cohort of
CBD residents in July 2017 and as the first group of programs to transition
into CBD, our program has comfortably adapted to the new Royal College
standard of Postgraduate medical learning.  
  
Current faculty consists of 11 full-time Otolaryngologists and 12 adjunctive
faculties from the surrounding community sites that also provide teaching. The
sub-specialty interests of the faculty include otology, neuro-otology,
pediatric otolaryngology, head and neck surgical oncology, facial plastic and
microvascular reconstructive surgery, facial cosmetic surgery, and rhinology.
Adjunctive appointees to the Department have expertise in head and neck
surgical oncology, rhinology, facial plastics, and maxillofacial trauma,
vestibular medicine and communicative disorders.

The Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery resident training program at McMaster
University provides complete and thorough surgical training. The strength of
the program is our exceptional faculty core supported by adjunctive teachers
who combine to not only prepare our residents for the full breath of community
Otolaryngology practice but also the foundation to pursue further sub-
specialty academic training.

## Selection process goals

We are looking for eager and bright individuals with exceptional interpersonal
skills and good clinic judgement. We value individuals who represent good
ethical and high professional standards. Candidates should have demonstrated a
real interest in Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery. A successful candidate
will also have exhibited sufficient bimanual dexterity and the ability to
judge depth perception on bi-ocular vision.

No preference will be given to any candidates from a particular medical
school. Our program thrives on looking for the best candidates that will make
the brightest future Otolaryngologists. Our selection process is based on the
submission package, curriculum vitae, reference letters, interview process as
well as personal performance during electives. Interviews are mandatory and
will be a traditional format with faculty members as well as current
residents.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is comprised of the Program
Director, chief resident and other faculty members on the Residency Program
Committee (RPC). We also have residents from our RPC assist with the review of
the candidate's applications.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
We had 200 applicants in the last 5 years.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  evaluated   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  evaluated   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  evaluated   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  evaluated   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  evaluated   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  We evaluate personal letters. Please frame your personal letter to discuss your rationale for pursuing Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery as a profession. Please specifically discuss your strongest personal qualities and how they would make you a good fit within our program here at McMaster.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Reference letters will be evaluated. Reference letters from the institution/discipline WILL NOT BE required for consideration of interview.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  evaluated   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  evaluated   
Other file component(s) |  A report from either an ophthalmologist or optometrist stating the candidate’s visual status, including stereopsis and color vision is highly recommended.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Electives in our discipline are recommended but not
mandatory.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  Possible Technical Skills Station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evaluated   
Collegiality |  Evaluated   
Communication skills |  Evaluated   
Health advocacy |  Evaluated   
Interest in the discipline |  Evaluated   
Interest in the program |  Evaluated   
Leadership skills |  Evaluated   
Professionalism |  Evaluated   
Scholarly activities |  Evaluated   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Hamilton Health Sciences and St. Joseph's Healthcare serves approximately 2.3
million people in Hamilton, central-south and central-west Ontario. Residents
therefore acquire exposure to a variable spectrum of common and less common
diseases related to our specialty.

The strengths of the McMaster Otolaryngology - Head & Neck Surgery program are
the enthusiastic teaching by the faculty, the family atmosphere that prevails
among the staff and the residents, and the early hands on experience in a
surgical suite. Research acumen and experience is also a rapidly expanding
focus of the training program. Junior residents are matched to a short term
and long-term project upon admission into the program.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Applying Competency-Based Practices to Residency Education**

Residents entering Otolaryngology – Head & Neck Surgery

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called Competence by Design
(CBD), aims to enhance patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong
learning with evolving patient needs and empowering learners to more fully
engage in their education process.

Competence by Design (CBD) will use time as a framework rather than the basis
for progression. It is not anticipated that the duration of training will
change for the majority of trainees. Residency programs will be broken down
into stages. Each stage will have a series EPA(s) (Entrustrable Professional
Activity) with milestones based on required competencies. These milestones
will create more targeted learning outcomes and involve more frequent,
formative assessments within the clinical workplace to ensure residents are
developing and receiving feedback on the skills they need.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes. All CBD programs will continue to lead to Royal
College approved certification. Certification for trainees in CBD will also be
assessed against program milestones throughout their training. Within a CBD
program, all milestones (documented within an electronic portfolio) and the
Royal College examination must be successfully completed to achieve
certification.

For more information, please contact [cbd@royalcollege.ca
](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca)

Otolaryngology - Head & Neck Surgery at McMaster University is a five-year
program. During the first two years, trainees receive Surgical Foundations
(SF) training to provide a solid background in the principles of surgery
related to Otolaryngology - Head & Neck Surgery. During Surgical Foundations
training, residents do two weeks of boot camp with SF, six weeks on-service
for the _Transition to Discipline_ stage, three blocks on-service and eight
blocks off-service the first year for the _Foundations of Discipline_ stage.
The second year of training, the residents are on-service the entire year
completing _Foundations of Discipline_ and starting the Core stage of the CBD.
Residents are expected to pass the Surgical Foundations examination of the
Royal College of Surgeons after they have completed the first two years of the
program.  Surgical Foundations started CBD July 1, 2018 and have their own
EPAs to complete.

**PGY 3 to 5  **

The Core stage will continue through your 3rd, 4th and first half of your 5th
year.

The emphasis during the PGY3 year is on General Otolaryngology, Pediatric
Otolaryngology, Laryngology, Rhinology, Facial Cosmetic and Trauma and in
basic Head and Neck/Endocrine Surgery. Also the resident does
elective/community rotations for 2 months, one month of the elective rotation
must be spent in the community.

The emphasis in the PGY4 year is on Otology, Neurotology, advanced Pediatric
Otolaryngology, Rhinology, Facial Plastic and Reconstruction Surgery; as well
as, Head and Neck/Endocrine Oncology.  A one-month optional elective rotation
can be done upon the approval of the Program Director.

The emphasis in the senior PGY5 year is on Head and Neck/Oncology and
Endocrine , Otology, Neurotology and a consolidation in advanced Endoscopic
Sinus/Skull base Surgery, Facial Plastic and Reconstruction Surgery and
advanced Pediatric Otolaryngology.  

Lectures, journal clubs, rounds are attended by all residents. Temporal bone
dissection is attended by our senior residents bi-weekly in our new lab
facility. An endoscopic sinus course is attended in the beginning of year
three of training. All residents are required to participate in either
clinical or basic science research during their training.

**Electives:  **

Residents are afforded a total of two blocks of elective time. One block in
PGY 3 and one in PGY 4.

**Subspecialties**

The full spectrum of adult and pediatric Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery
is represented by our program. General Otolaryngology exposure is available in
all teaching hospitals and rotations as well as community based rotations.

Subspecialty training can be afforded at the following centers:

St. Joseph's Healthcare: Head and Neck Surgical Oncology/Microvascular
reconstruction, Otology/Neurotology

Juravinski Cancer Center: Head and Neck Surgical Oncology

McMaster Hospital: Pediatric Otolaryngology, Otology, Rhinology, Skull base
surgery

Hamilton General Hospital: Otology, Rhinology, Skull base surgery

**Research**

Residents will present their research at the Annual Otolaryngology - Head &
Neck Surgery Research Day held in the Fall.  Also, residents have
opportunities to present their research at national and international
conferences.

**Seminars**

**Academic Half Days:  
**Wednesday mornings city-wide Otolaryngology - Head & Neck Rounds from
7:30-8:30 for all residents, followed by the Surgical Foundations Program for
junior residents from 9:00-12 noon (pending change).

The PGY 3-5 year residents attend Comprehensive Otolaryngologic Curriculum
Learning through Interactive Approach (COCLIA) sessions from 14:00-16:00.
COCLIA is a novel teaching tool designed to help residents systematically
acquire Otolaryngology - Head & Neck Surgery knowledge.  Based on adult
learning principles, the program provides a discussion platform for basic
anatomy, physiology, diagnosis, management and decision-making of over 100
major Otolaryngology topics.  This is a resident-driven teaching session.
Following COCLIA is a Teaching Session led by staff from 16:00-18:00 for all
residents.

**Examination**

\- In-House oral and written exams every six months for PGY 2-5 residents and
yearly for first year residents.

\- National In-Training (NITE) exam annually (written) is for PGY 2-5
residents in December.

\- Royal College exam for PGY5 is in the Fall.

\- Surgical Foundations exam of Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons in
PGY2 is in the Fall.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Resources  **

Electronic resources are available through the Department of Surgery and the
Teaching Hospital's Libraries.

Affiliated Sites of Training:

  * St. Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton
  * Juravinsinki Cancer Center
  * Hamilton General Hospital
  * McMaster Hospital 
  * Cambridge Hospital*
  * Guelph Hospital*

*Community affiliated practice site



**Description**

The **Otolaryngology - Head & Neck Surgery** service functions out of both the
Hamilton Health Sciences and St. Joseph’s Healthcare with different areas of
emphasis at each centre.  Current faculty consists of 11 full-time
Otolaryngologists and 12 adjunctive faculties from the surrounding community
sites that also provide teaching. The sub-specialty interests of the faculty
include otology, neuro-otology, pediatric otolaryngology, head and neck
surgical oncology, facial plastic and microvascular reconstructive surgery,
facial cosmetic surgery, and rhinology. Adjunctive appointees to the
Department have expertise in head and neck surgical oncology, rhinology,
facial plastics, and maxillofacial trauma, vestibular medicine and
communicative disorders.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27090?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27090