#  University of British Columbia - Vascular Surgery - Vancouver

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 20, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Jonathan Misskey  

Address Department of Surgery - Division of Vascular Surgery  
Vancouver General Hospital  
4213 - 2775 Laurel Street  
Vancouver, British Columbia, V5Z 1M9  

Work  (604) 875-5495

Websites of Interest [ Division of Vascular Surgery Website - UBC
](https://vascularsurgery.med.ubc.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Jenny Salvatierra

Title: Senior Program Administrative Assistant

Email: jenny.salvatierra@ubc.ca

Phone: 604-875-4111 ext 23111

  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Please find further information under the Documentation Tab.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

A minimum of three reference letters are required. A maximum of 5 letters will
be accepted. References should be from consultant level physicians. References
are due by the CARMS reference letter deadline.

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

A CV outlining past experiences, awards and scholarly activities is required.
List any research activities you have have been involved in, volunteer
activities (within and outside of medical school), and any extracurricular
activities in which you are actively participating.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1200

  

A personal letter of no longer than 1200 words is required. The letter should
outline the following; unique aspects of the candidate, reasons for pursuing a
career (and training) in Vascular Surgery with the University of British
Columbia, and what will the candidate contribute to the training program.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

A photo is required as a memory aid

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

The University of British Columbia Division of Vascular Surgery residency
selection committee will be responsible for selecting the CMG CaRMS resident.
This committee is approved by the Residency Program Committee and will consist
of 8 surgical faculty (including the program director) and 4 non-graduating
residents. All applications will be reviewed by this committee and decisions
for offering an interview will be made based on selection criteria below.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 3, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held on February 3, 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will be conducted via
Zoom. The applicant can expect to be interviewed (separately) by at least six
faculty and four current residents. Further details on interview events will
be provided to successful candidates.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The UBC Vascular Surgery Residency Program seeks candidates who have shown
ability and potential academically, technically and professionally. Candidates
will be expected to demonstrate an understanding of the field of vascular
surgery. Given the importance of the inter and intra-disciplinary team
approach to vascular surgical patients, excellent communication, leadership
and collaborative skills are essential.

## Program goals

At UBC, we are committed to training physicians who will ultimately be serving
BC and Canada.

Residents in our program are are expected to demonstrate clinical and academic
excellence, exceptional interpersonal and teamwork skills, research
experience, and a sense of responsibility and dedication to the profession.
Residents are expected to be active community members and demonstrate balance
as evidenced by engagement in volunteer, extracurricular or other types of
activities.

At UBC, we rely on the entire province for training. This includes sites
throughout the lower mainland (metro Vancouver), Vancouver Island, and
Kelowna.

## Selection process goals

Identify applicants interest in Vascular Surgery, and those who will develop
into exceptional surgeons.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability to interact appropriately
with patients, colleagues, and various healthcare team members alike.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated attributes highlighted in the
CanMEDS competencies.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability and enthusiasm to learn and
are able to adapt to the various demands of residency training.

Identify applicants who have a sincere interest to serve British Columbians.

## File review process

Review team composition : The CaRMS Selection Subcommittee is approved by the
Residency Program Committee and will consist of 8 surgical faculty (including
the program director and division head) and 4 non-graduating residents.
Surgical faculty representatives (site leads) from all 5 training sites are
among the 8 surgical faculty.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  
All paper applications are reviewed by all members of the CaRMS Selection
Subcommittee and the competitiveness of the applicants ranked by the strength
of the application, dedicated interest in vascular surgery, reference letters,
and academic/personal accomplishments. Final ranking of those selected for
interview is determined by consensus of the CaRMS Selection Subcommittee.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Evaluate content, including research, publications, electives   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Clinical evaluations (in particular those from vascular rotations or electives)   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Voluneeting (medical and non-medical) and mentoring   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Holding office in a student government, club or organization   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstrated interpersonal skills   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in discipline and program location   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interaction with colleagues and patients   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in participating in future research projects   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
Other file component(s) |  Any MCC exam results, IMG Clinical Assesment Program results (if applicable), academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due
to weather, technology failure or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high-quality patient care through working in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Behaviour, attitude, ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Ability to communicate effectively and clearly with patients, their families, and members of the health care team.   
Health advocacy |  Knowledge of social and economic determinants of health   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated interest and ability in the specialty; evidence for compassion   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest in the program, setting, and serving British Columbians   
Leadership skills |  Ability to initiate programs, lead organizations or groups, and make an impact   
Professionalism |  Correspondence with staff, residents and administrative personnel   
Scholarly activities |  Research publications   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Strengths of the UBC Vascular Program include the faculty, clinical resources,
and an atmosphere of collegiality, cooperation and excellence.

Vascular Surgery and Endovascular rotations are based at 5 hospitals
throughout British Columbia: Vancouver General Hospital (6 vascular surgeons),
St. Paul's Hospital (3 vascular surgeons), Royal Jubilee Hospital in Victoria
(5 vascular surgeons), Kelowna General Hospital (5 vascular surgeons), and
Royal Columbian Hospital (5 vascular surgeons). Each program has an excellent,
award-winning record for delivering  enthusiastic, quality education. The
University of British Columbia division of vascular surgery has discontinued
its fellowship training program in 2016, and carries a total of 5-7 direct
entry residents, providing robust and frequent operative and clinical
experience to residents across all 5 sites.

The University of British Columbia Division of Vascular Surgery prides itself
on its comprehensiveness, with training that spans all aspects of vascular
care. This includes complex and standard endovascular thoracic, abdominal, and
thoracoabdominal aortic interventions; open thoracic, abdominal and
thoracoabdominal aortic surgery, peripheral arterial bypass, advanced lower
extremity endovascular intervention, carotid artery intervention for stroke
prevention, open and endovascular creation of dialysis access, open and
endovenous management of varicose veins, deep venous stenting, thoracic outlet
surgery, surgical exposures for anterior approaches to spine surgery,
collaboration for oncologic procedures, and the treatment of arteriovenous
malformations. There are significant collaborations with cardiac surgery,
interventional radiology, cardiology, nephrology, plastic surgery and surgical
oncology that offer candidates the widest breadth of exposure possible.

All residents are afforded elective time during their senior years (PGY-4 and
PGY-5) that are designed to help gain experience in areas of interest and
explore employment opportunities. Residents in the past have organized
electives throughout Canada, the United States and internationally.

Research is a strong focus of the program and focuses primarily on clinical
outcomes, basic science and surgical education. Numerous opportunities exist
for conducting research throughout the residency program through either
individual projects or as part of a graduate degree, including funded graduate
programs such as the Clinical Investigator Program and the Centre for Health
Education and Scholarship Clinical Educator Fellowship.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The resident starting in 2025 will be following the the new Competency by
Design pathway for training initiated in 2021. The fundamental tenet of the
Competency by Design framework is a greater emphasis on demonstrating and
documenting achievement of core clinical and operative competencies. There
will be substantially more attention to both clinical and operative
assessments, individual learner progress, and less focus on strict time-based
advancement through training. As a result of these modifications, training
focus on vascular surgery starts earlier with greater early vascular surgery
exposure, with less focus on off-service surgical/medical training. The off-
service rotations have been significantly curtailed and now are limited to
general surgery - hepatobiliary, perioperative medicine, and cardiology during
the Transition to Discipline and Foundations of Discipline phases (correlating
to PGY-1 to PGY-2). The remaining time is dedicated exclusively to vascular
surgery training at one of the 5 core training sites.

The first two years are the Surgical Foundations years. Surgical Foundations
is a core curriculum for all surgical residents at UBC during PGY-1 and PGY-2
and involve weekly seminar seminars, technical skills laboratory sessions,
online case-based learning modules, Principles of Surgery Examination Review
Lectures, and a series of formative assessments. This is supplemented by the
CRASH course, a month-long block dedicated to certification for Advanced
Trauma Life Support, critical care-focused training, and the development of
foundational surgical skills (suturing, chest tubes, tracheostomy, intubation,
line insertion, etc.). The Surgical Foundations program at the University of
British Columbia culminates with the completion of the Royal College of
Physicians Surgical Foundations Examination, a requirement of Royal College
certification and completed generally during the second year of surgical
training.

The last ~3 years involve comprehensive vascular surgical training. The core
training will involve extensive exposure to all areas of vascular surgery at
all 5 training sites. During this time residents will consolidate their
knowledge and skills in the goal of becoming licensed vascular surgeons. A new
facet of the Competency by Design framework is a final transition to
discipline stage, where residents in the final stages of training will gain
additional experience managing OR slates, organizing and running outpatient
clinics, and developing skills required to have them ready to start practice.

The vascular surgery training program is supported by a robust academic
curriculum. This includes weekly academic half-days with didactic teaching in
addition to weekly technical skills, endovascular and open simulation, wet-
lab, and case-based learning. In addition, there are monthly journal clubs,
weekly city-wide rounds presentations, activities for residents-as-teachers,
and weekly TEVAR rounds and Vascular-Interventional Radiology
Interdisciplinary rounds.



* * *

# Training Sites

UBC Division of Vascular Surgery

The UBC Vascular Division has five hospitals through which residents will
rotate: Vancouver General Hospital, St. Paul's Hospital, Royal Columbian
Hospital, Kelowna General Hospital and Royal Jubilee Hospital in Victoria.
These centres provide the faculty and training necessary to complete the Royal
College Requirements for a 5 year Vascular Surgery residency program. Each of
these centres has its own advantages and strengths and the program's objective
is to utilize these sites to optimize the training and experience of UBC
Vascular Surgery residents.

**Vancouver General Hospital:** Large quaternary referral teaching hospital, a
Level 1 Trauma centre, and the second largest hospital in Canada. 6 full-time
clinical vascular faculty treat the entire spectrum of vascular procedures in
a hybrid OR with a second hybrid room in development. Specific highlights of
Vancouver General Hospital include a high volume of open and endovascular
aortic surgery involving all aspects of the abdominal and thoracic aorta. VGH
is the primary referral site for the province for advanced open
thoracoabdominal aortic pathology. VGH offers a high volume carotid practice
and is the quaternary stroke centre for the province of British Columbia. VGH
also has high volumes of advanced open and endovascular reconstruction for
lower extremity arterial disease, first rib resection for thoracic outlet
syndrome, and endovenous procedures for deep venous obstructive disease.
Collaboration with surgical oncology is frequent for the reconstruction of
arterial and venous structures during surgical oncology procedures. There is
also a high volume private vein practice where residents will be exposed to
treatment of venous pathology of all forms from ulcers to cosmesis, and will
gain experience with all forms of open and endovenous treatment of veins.

**St. Paul's Hospital:  **Large downtown teaching hospital with the largest
renal replacement program in British Columbia. Highlights of St. Paul's
Hospital include a very high volume of basic and advanced dialysis access
surgery, extensive lower extremity arterial disease reconstruction, and a
multidisciplinary collaboration for advanced endovascular aortic cases and
EVAR with interventional radiology. 2 trained vascular surgeons have cross
appointments in interventional radiology and have dedicated operating time in
IR with treatment of a wide variety of common and uncommon vascular pathology,
as well as the only site in British Columbia providing endovascular
arteriovenous fistulas. In addition St. Paul's Hospital has a high volume
heart transplant program and one of the highest volume minimally invasive
cardiac valve programs in Canada with frequent complex vascular access issues
for both procedures and ECMO.

**Royal Columbian Hospital:** The largest and highest volume community
hospital in British Columbia. The Royal Columbian Hospital provides the
largest volume of advanced (e.g. fenestrated, branched and physician modified)
endovascular aortic cases in the province including abdominal and thoracic
pathology. In addition to a high volume of conventional vascular surgery
pathology, RCH has the largest volume of advanced peripheral endovascular
pathology in the province and provides residents to a large volume of cases
with alternate access (retrograde pedal, percutaneous axillary, etc.) for all
levels of peripheral arterial pathology. Current construction of a new
hospital will provide access to 2 hybrid surgical suites and to outpatient
cath labs for dedicated endovascular cases. Resident will rotate at Royal
Columbian Hospital as a mid-level trainee and again near the completion of
training.  

**Kelowna General Hospital:  **Serves the majority of the British Columbian
interior and provides excellent exposure to junior and mid-level trainees to a
very high volume community practice of open and endovascular arterial
pathology. Kelowna General Hospital provides a regular exposure to
endovascular and open management of aortic aneurysmal disease, aortic
dissection, carotid pathology and the management of peripheral arterial
disease. Kelowna General Hospital has a strong reputation for outstanding
resident teaching and for offering an early opportunity for operative exposure
in more junior years where residents do not have to compete for cases. Housing
during this rotation is fully covered by the Postgraduate Medical Education
Office at UBC.

**Royal Jubilee Hospital (Victoria):  **Serves the entirety of Vancouver
Island. With the oldest health authority in Canada, RJH provides some of the
highest volume community based vascular surgery in Canada, including one of
the highest volume carotid practices in the country. RJH is recognized for
having a very busy open and endovascular aortic program with an excellent
exposure to conventional open vascular surgery. Residents gain significant
operative experience and autonomy during their senior rotation at RJH to all
aspects of vascular surgery, with most trainees rotating through during their
5th year of training. Housing during this rotation is fully covered by the
Postgraduate Medical Education Office at UBC.



* * *

# Additional Information

Vancouver is a world class multicultural city with a variety of attributes and
activities for all to enjoy!

Stunning scenery - there are countless activities to occupy you in summer and
winter, and you can say goodbye to anything that looks like a Canadian winter
during your time in Vancouver. Vancouver has an enormous variety of award
winning restaurants and world class entertainment including the Vancouver
Symphony, live theatre, summer festivals and sporting events, including the
Vancouver Canucks, the Whitecaps, and the BC Lions. Enjoy the incredible
amount of urban greenspace including Stanley Park, the Vancouver Seawall,
numerous incredible botanical gardens and the world-famous Vancouver Aquarium.

There is no province with more to do out of doors year round than in British
Columbia. Enjoy skiing at multiple world class mountains only a short drive
from Vancouver, including Whistler (only an hour north of Vancouver), Grouse
Mountain, Cypress, and world class skiing in the British Columbia Interior
including Sun Peaks, Big White, and Revelstoke to name just a few. Enjoy
hiking, fishing, river rafting and camping in the summer throughout countless
provincial and national parks. Enjoy snorkeling, scuba diving, and even
surfing on Vancouver Island in some of the most beautiful coastal areas in
Canada. The Okanagan is the northernmost serious wine-producing region in the
world and home to many internationally recognized wines.



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27312?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27312