#  University of Saskatchewan - Family Medicine - South East - Rural  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 05, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Sheila Smith  

Address Department of Family Medicine  
601 Wright Road  
Moosomin, Saskatchewan, S0G 3N0  

Work  306-435-6292

Websites of Interest [ South East Residency Video
](https://medicine.usask.ca/familymedicine/learners/south-east.php)  
[ South East Instagram ](https://www.instagram.com/se.familymed/)  
[ Facebook - USask Family Med ](https://www.facebook.com/usaskfamilymed)  
[ Instagram - USask Family Med ](https://www.instagram.com/usaskfamilymed/)  
[ Twitter - USask Family Med
](https://medicine.usask.ca/familymedicine/about/about-us.php)  
[ Department of Family Medicine ](https://medicine.usask.ca/familymedicine/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Kristin Foy

Title: South East Site Director

  

Name: Bobbie McLaughlin

Title: Program Administrative Assistant

Email: bobbie.mclaughlin@usask.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

## **Welcome from  South East Site Director**

Thank you for considering the South East training site! SE is a new, unique
distributed site focused on helping residents become competent rural
generalist family physicians. It has been my pleasure to be the site director
since the site's inception in 2022. I grew up in South East Saskatchewan and
returned home to practice and raise my family as I love the variety of
medicine, friendly communities, and recreational activities. I look forward to
meeting applicants through the CaRMS process and wish you the best of luck.

**Welcome from the Program Director**

Welcome to the University of Saskatchewan Family Medicine Program! My name is
Sheila Smith and I will be your program director. We want to support you to do
your best work. Our program provides opportunities to practice inclusive and
equitable care to our patients and our communities. You will experience
learning environments that are strengthened by our diverse and inclusive
teams. Our program is constantly learning and innovating and we welcome you to
be part of our journey.

**Important Information for Applicants**

The Family Medicine CMG stream is open to CMGs and graduates of US allopathic
schools. Applicants are responsible for reviewing the [University of
Saskatchewan Policies for the R1 Match](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-
residency-match/eligibility-criteria/saskatchewan/) to determine if they meet
all requirements and eligibility criteria. Failure to meet or provide proof of
any of the stated requirements or documents may result in an applicant’s file
not being reviewed or ranked.

**Casper Test**  
All applicants must complete the Casper test. Please refer to the Examinations
section for more information.

**Family Medicine Professional Choices Assessment (FMProC)  
** All applicants must complete the Family Medicine Professional Choices
Assessment (FMProC). Please refer to the Examinations section for more
information.

**Licensing  
** Matched applicants must be eligible for an educational register license
with the [College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Registration___Licensure/web/Applicants/Licensure/Registration_and_Licensure_Landing.aspx?hkey=75b022f8-df64-4f34-8e2a-a09bea881787)
(CPSS) for a July 1st start date and must maintain eligibility for an
educational register license throughout their entire training program. Matched
applicants who are graduating in the spring will need to provide a copy of
their medical degree/diploma to the PGME office and the College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Saskatchewan (CPSS) prior to the start of residency training.
Any delays in providing all required documentation to CPSS may result in the
following:

  * delay in issuance of an educational register license and a delay in start of postgraduate training beyond July 1st
  * release from CaRMS match contract

**Applicants completing medical education at the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)**  are
required to submit proof of English language proficiency before the rank order
deadline to demonstrate they meet CPSS requirements. More information is
available under Supporting Documentation-Language Proficiency.

**NOTE:**  Applicants who are considering a delay to their convocation date
must be aware that a medical degree cannot be issued to a student until they
have convocated. CPSS bylaws require that new residents must have received
their medical degree prior to the commencement of residency training. Choosing
to delay convocation will affect a matched applicant’s ability to commence
their residency training program in Saskatchewan on July 1. Please refer to
the [U of S CaRMS Deferral Policy](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/carms-
deferral-of-training-start-date---match-violation-release-from-
match.php#relatedForms) for additional information.

**Credentialing**  
In order to commence and continue in Postgraduate Medical Education training
programs, matched applicants must be eligible for and maintain privileges
within the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) as determined by their
credentialing process. The Saskatchewan Health Authority requires successful
applicants to submit immunization records and a current criminal record check
as part of their pre-resident application for appointment. Applicants with
criminal records will be considered on a case by case basis by the College of
Medicine in consultation with the Health Authority.

Any delays in providing all required documentation to the Saskatchewan Health
Authority may result in a delay in the start of postgraduate training beyond
July 1st.

**Resident Boot Camp  
** All matched applicants must attend a mandatory three-day Resident Boot Camp
scheduled for late June. The purpose of the Boot Camp is to provide additional
support to trainees as they transition to residency by introducing and
consolidating baseline skills and knowledge needed to flourish during their
residency years. The program will include interactive case-based and hands-on
practice sessions. Stipends will be provided to trainees.

Attendance is required and absences are only permitted in exceptional
circumstances, with prior approval of PGME.

**Advanced Cardiac Life Support  
** Matched applicants are required to provide proof of ACLS certification
(current as of July 1, 2025) to the PGME office prior to starting their
training program. The ACLS course must be endorsed by the Heart and Stroke
Foundation of Canada and/or the American Heart Association. ACLS training that
is not certified by these two organizations and/or is completed entirely
through an online course will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for
all costs associated with obtaining ACLS certification.

**Personal Transportation**  
Applicants who match to the Family Medicine residency training program are
required to have a valid driver’s license and access to a vehicle in order to
drive to mandatory rural and remote educational experiences. Residents are
also expected to be able to travel within communities for educational
experiences. Applicants should be aware that not all training sites have
access to public transportation and residents are required to provide their
own transportation. Residents receive mileage reimbursement as per PGME
guidelines.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

  

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

All applicants must be Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents at the time of
application and must submit a notarized/certified photocopy of one of the
accepted citizenship documents.

Proof of citizenship must be current at the time of application and expired
documents will not be accepted.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum of 7.0 in each of the components

**Language assessment document accepted:**

  1. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on paper at a test venue
  2. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on a computer at a test venue
  3. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine at Home

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum grade of B

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of 9 in all sections

Applicants may be required to provide proof of proficiency in the English
language to meet licensing requirements of the [College of Physicians and
Surgeons (CPSS) of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Licensure/Requirements_Content/English_Language_Proficiency.aspx).

Applicants who graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States,
where English is the language of instruction **are not**  required to submit
proof of English language proficiency.

**Canadian applicants with medical education from the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)  are required
**to meet the English language proficiency requirements of the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan and must complete one of the language
exams listed above.

Applicants who are required to complete a language exam must submit a valid
test score in their CaRMS application **by the deadline for submission and
assignment of applications and documents.** Applicants who do not provide
acceptable proof of language proficiency, if required, will not be ranked.

Applicants must meet all of the criteria in one of the IELTS, OET or CELPIP
examinations. Please note that results from examinations cannot be combined,
unless the testing institution offers a sub-test.  
NOTE: Only OET offers sub-tests. CPSS will accept sub-tests obtained within
the same 24-month period as the original OET exam was sat.

Please direct any questions about language requirements to
[della.toews@usask.ca](mailto:della.toews@usask.ca). Applicants should not
contact CPSS directly about their eligibility for licensure.

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Family Medicine programs have adopted the Canadian Family Medicine Structured
Reference Form (SRF). All FM programs requesting a reference will require the
form. Traditional narrative letters will NOT be accepted. Should your referee
submit a traditional letter it will not be reviewed and your application may
be deemed incomplete.  New references are mandatory with each admissions
cycle.

Three (3) reference letters using the Canadian Family Medicine Structured
Reference Form are required. Please submit the same reference letters to each
site you apply to. Applicants should familiarize themselves with [how to
request](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408366069133-How-do-I-
request-a-Family-Medicine-Structured-Reference-Letter-) a Family Medicine
Structured Reference Letter on the CaRMS website. Applicants can direct their
referees to the [example](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/sample-FM-structured-
reference-letter-CMG.pdf) of the reference letter on the CaRMS website.
Letters by Primary Care Providers are strongly recommended.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter describing yourself and your career interest is required.
Please address the personal letter to the overall program "Dr. Sheila Smith
and Selection Committee" and NOT to each site. Submit the same personal letter
to each site you are applying to.

As Family Physicians, we are interested in learning about you in the same way
we are interested in learning about the context of our patients.  Your letter
must include your motivations for applying to Family Medicine and selecting
the University of Saskatchewan for training. Please also reflect on qualities
that are critical to being a Family Physician, service to rural, remote and
underserved populations and strengths that you will contribute to our program.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Matched applicants who are graduating in the spring will need to provide a
copy of their medical degree/diploma to the PGME office and
[CPSS](https://www.cps.sk.ca/) prior to the start of residency training.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025
  * January 25, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interview dates:  
  

  * January 22, 23, 24, 25, 2025

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Details regarding interview date and
time will be forwarded upon notification of the applicant. One interview will
be offered for all sites on a first come first serve basis. Our interview team
consists of program and site leadership, designated faculty and residents and
program administrators. Applicants rotate through four 15-20 minute interviews
conducted by faculty and resident interviewers. Interviewers may be from
various sites. Applicants must attend all interview stations to be considered.  
  
CaRMS has mandated that only virtual interviews can be offered for the 2025
match; in person interviews cannot be considered for any applicants. Virtual
interviews will be conducted using Zoom.  
  
During the interview period, those applicants selected for interviews will be
offered the following information sessions and wellness opportunities.  
  

  1. Site lounges - these sessions are hosted by the sites as an informal way to provide site specific information and opportunities for personal and focused interaction.
  2. Community spaces - these sessions are hosted by the University of Sasktachewan medical school clubs and are offered as safe spaces for applicants. To protect applicant confidentiality the program is not involved beyond arranging for hosts to be available and providing applicants with information to access the spaces.

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

The goal of the Department of Family Medicine and the Postgraduate Family
Medicine Residency Program at the University of Saskatchewan is to produce
caring and compassionate Family Physicians who are ready to provide
comprehensive care to all patients in Saskatchewan, especially those serving
rural, remote and underserved populations.

Our mission is to create, teach and develop the knowledge, skills and
attitudes specific to the discipline of Family Medicine.

  * We will work to optimize health by demonstrating excellence and innovation in service, education and scholarly activity.
  * We will provide university, hospital and community-based education consistent with the principles of Family Medicine.
  * We will focus our efforts on working with communities in response to their health needs.

## Selection process goals

Identify applicants who have shown an interest in and commitment to generalist
Family Medicine.

Identify applicants who have shown an interest in and commitment to rural,
remote and underserved populations.

Identify applicants and who have clinical and life experiences that will
assist them in understanding the context of their patients, and adapt to the
communities they will train in and serve, in the future.

Identify applicants who are self-directed that seek out feedback and
opportunities to learn.

Identify applicants who work well with other residents, patients, and staff
and team members.

Identify applicants who are interested in providing care across the family
medicine professional profile as described in the practice narratives found in
the CFPC's Residency Training Profile.

Identify applicants who can demonstrate attributes highlighted in the CFPC
Skill Dimensions and CanMEDS-FM 2017/2025 roles.

Identify applicants who are eligible for licensure in the province of
Saskatchewan and have an interest in providing primary care to the patients of
Saskatchewan.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team consists of the program and site
leadership, designated faculty and program administrators.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 601 +  
Our program accepts applications from IMGs in the first round of the match.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  
Resource limitations may result in the inability to interview all qualified
candidates.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Demonstrate a high level of achievement in diverse activities and interests. Demonstrate evidence of life and work experience that indicates applicant's ability to adapt to future communities they will train and serve in.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Elective experience in Saskatchewan is encouraged, if possible, but is not significantly weighted in terms of selection criteria for interviews or positions.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  All applicants must complete a Casper exam to be eligible for consideration. The PGME Office has provided programs with guidelines on how scoring can be used for file review and ranking. The FMProC exam is also mandatory for our program. It is for information only and will not be weighted until it is validated further. IMG applicants (and graduates of US osteopathic schools) are required to pass the MCCQE1 and NAC exams.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Demonstrate evidence of varied interests outside of medicine.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Demonstrate evidence of leadership experience.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evaluated for any identified concerns regarding the applicant, as well as exceptional achievements.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstrate evidence of suitability for generalist Family Medicine and experience with rural, remote and underserved populations. Demonstrate evidence of life and work experience that indicates applicant's ability to understand the context of their patients and adapt to future communities they will train and serve in. Evaluated for style.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Demonstrate evidence of suitability for generalist Family Medicine and experience with rural, remote and underserved populations.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Demonstrate evidence of Family Medicine scholarly work experience.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evaluated for indications of difficulty with the academic requirements for a medical degree.   
Other file component(s) |  Candidates are assessed for their willingness to practice in Saskatchewan, as well as their ties to the province.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  Applicants rotate through four 15-20 minute interviews conducted by
faculty and resident interviewers. Interviewers may be from various sites.
Applicants must attend all interview stations to be considered.  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Demonstrate effective collaborative skills.   
Collegiality |  Demonstrate collegiality.   
Communication skills |  Demonstrate effective communication skills.   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrate health advocacy.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrate interest in generalist Family Medicine and/or rural Family Medicine.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrate interest in the University of Saskatchewan's Family Medicine program and experience with rural, remote and underserved populations.   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrate effective leadership skills.   
Professionalism |  Display professional behaviour.   
Scholarly activities |  Demonstrate interest in life long learning.   
Other interview component(s) |  Demonstrate understanding of cultural safety and sensitivity.   
Demonstrate clinical reasoning and effective integration of clinical
information.  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  All interactions with the program, program staff, preceptors, and
residents may be considered in the application and interview process.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  All interactions exhibited outside the interview process with our
program, program staff, preceptors, and residents may also be considered.
Final eligibility for ranking is determined by the selection committee which
has representatives from all sites. A final assessment is made as to whether
the applicant is considered a good overall fit for each site.  
  
Our program strives to be inclusive. All applicants, regardless of gender,
gender identity, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity or religious affiliation,
are encouraged to apply.  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

## **South East**

The South East Family Medicine Residency Training Program is the newest
addition to the University of Saskatchewan’s cadre of exemplary FM residency
programs.  The South East program is administratively based out of Moosomin,
Saskatchewan. Humboldt, Weyburn, and Moosomin make up the 3 home base sites.
Following the CaRMS match, residents will be asked if they have preferences
for a home base site and, if so, to rank them. An internal match will occur,
taking into account residents' preferences.  Unfortunately, we are unable to
guarantee matching to a specific home base. While we strive for similar
experiences, each home base is unique, so experiences won’t be identical.
However, all home bases are similarly equipped and qualified.

In this geographically distributed program, you will be paired with one of 3
home base communities and maintain that continuity throughout your training.
These home base communities are SMALL! Family physicians are the main
physicians providing services and have broad scopes of practice.  You will
become a competent, skilled, and knowledgeable rural family physician working
alongside our expansive faculty with a low learner to faculty ratio. There are
plenty of opportunities for individualized learning. Sometimes you may be the
only resident in the community for a period of time while others are on off-
service rotations.

Shifts in the emergency department are integrated throughout family medicine
blocks in order to help you become comfortable and competent managing acute
patients so that you are able to practice family medicine in any community
size upon completion of residency. Our ERs may be small, but they are busy!
Residents get plenty of hands-on experience managing the sickest patients and
doing a wide variety of procedures.

Along with family medicine clinic and emergency department call, family
medicine blocks include integrated inpatients, long-term care/care of the
elderly, palliative care, and minor procedures. Residents based out of
Humboldt and Moosomin can also participate in low-risk obstetrics provided in
these communities. This rural generalist focus provides a breadth of learning
experiences. If you want more exposure to a particular area of family medicine
during your training, this can usually be accommodated through the flexibility
of our program or covered during your ample elective time.

Your learning will be enhanced with additional experience in our
regional/tertiary centers for specialty blocks and smaller supporting sites
for remote/underserviced learning.  Specialty rotations include obstetrics,
pediatrics ER, psychiatry, internal medicine/hospitalist, surgery, and
anesthesia.  Thus, a driver’s license and a reliable, winter-safe vehicle are
essential!  When outside of your home base, housing is looked after for you,
leaving one less thing for you to worry about.  Please see the program
curriculum below to get a better idea of travel requirements.

Though our 3 home bases are all rural communities, a selective rotation in a
smaller underserviced community can also take place in your second year of
training. Communities to choose from vary year to year but could include Fort
Qu'Appelle, Indian Head, and Strasbourg.  Each community is unique with their
own strengths and patient populations. Should you choose not to take advantage
of this opportunity, you will stay in your home base completing more family
medicine.

Though distanced geographically, SE residents attend the same academic half
days virtually on Thursday afternoons.  Residents have the opportunity to
learn from local and provincial faculty.  Most of the content is based on the
105 topics for the CCFP exam and there are dedicated CCFP exam prep days
including SAMPS and SOOs.  Opportunities for collegiality between residents
are further created via in-person sims days that are held in-person on a
rotating schedule through our home base communities a few times/year.
Residents also organize wellness activities during these times.

### Moosomin

Moosomin is a community of ~3,200 people and provides a medium-sized rural
community experience with no current local or visiting specialists. The
Southeast Integrated Care Centre in Moosomin opened in 2008 and has 27
inpatient acute care beds, 57 long term care beds, an emergency department,
and provides low-risk obstetrical care. Local family physicians provide
services to 5 satellite clinics. Residents will have the opportunity to
provide care to a diverse population including First Nations and immigrant
patients. Residents do most specialty rotations in Yorkton, the nearest
regional hospital to Moosomin.

Located 2.25 hours east of Regina, 1.5 hours southeast of Yorkton, and 1.5
hours west of Brandon, MB, Moosomin is a true rural community. It is located
along the busy Trans-Canada highway and boasts an abundance of recreational
activities including a swimming pool, skating arena, sports fields, golf
course, lake, and sports simulators. Cross country ski trails are nearby. It
is a farming community with large potash mines to the north.

### Humboldt

Humboldt is a small city of ~6,000 people and provides a larger-sized rural
community experience. Alongside family physicians, Humboldt has a family
practice anesthetist and visiting specialists. Humboldt District Health
Complex opened in 2011 and has 38 inpatient acute care beds, 2 operating rooms
(one functioning as an endoscopy suite), an emergency department, and provides
low-risk obstetrical care. Residents do most specialty rotations in Yorkton,
with the exception of anesthesia, which is done locally in Humboldt.

Located just over an hour east of Saskatoon, Humboldt has a number of parks
and other recreational activities including an aquatic center, skating arena,
golf course, sports fields, and cross country ski trails. There is a local
SJHL team, the Humboldt Broncos. The area also has many farms.

### Weyburn

Weyburn is a small city of ~12,000 people and provides a larger-sized rural
community experience. Alongside family physicians, Weyburn has psychiatry and
visiting specialists. Weyburn General Hospital has 40 inpatient acute care
beds, including mental health beds, and an emergency department. Construction
of a new hospital is underway. Residents do most specialty rotations in
Yorkton.

Located just over an hour southeast of Regina, Weyburn is located on the
Souris River and is the largest inland grain gathering point in Canada.
Recreational amenities include a golf course, arena, indoor and outdoor pools,
walking paths, and sports fields. The newly built Credit Union Spark Centre is
a multi-purpose facility featuring an art gallery, pottery studio, indoor
track, indoor playground, and sports simulators. There is an SJHL team, the
Weyburn Red Wings. Alongside agriculture, oil and gas play an important role
in the economy.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**South East  Curriculum**

**R1 Rotations/longitudinal:**

Orientation - 1 week  
Family Medicine - 33 weeks  
Obstetrics & Pediatrics - 4 weeks  
Psychiatry - 2 weeks  
Anesthesia - 2 weeks

General Surgery - 2 weeks

Electives - 6 weeks

Consolidation week - 1 week

Seasonal Slowdown - 1 week



**R2 Rotations/longitudinal:**  
Family medicine – 29 weeks  
FM remote/underserviced selective -6 weeks (otherwise residents do FM in home
base)  
Obstetrics – 4 weeks  
Hospitalist/Internal Medicine - 4 weeks  
Electives - 6 weeks  
Exam week - 1 week

Consolidation week - 1 week

Seasonal slowdown - 1 week



**Experiences:**  
Behavioural medicine curriculum

Evidence-based medicine curriculum  
Academic half-day programming - both site-specific presentations from faculty
and residents and common provincial programming  
Integrated inpatients, long-term care/care of the elderly, palliative care,
minor procedures, and emergency medicine.



**Elective Time:**  
R1 - 6 weeks  
R2 - 6 weeks

**Unique features of  South East site: **

  * Low resident to faculty ratio
  * Small-town hospitality and ability to be involved in community activities
  * Plenty of opportunity to do procedures, inpatient care, and emergency care
  * Flexible scheduling

**Rural or Urban, time spent in the other environment:**  
R1 – obstetric/pediatrics (4 weeks), psychiatry (2 weeks), surgery (2 weeks),
anesthesia (2 weeks)  
R2 – FM selective (6 weeks), obstetrics (4 weeks), hospitalist/internal
medicine (4 weeks)

**Number of Residents**

Total Number of Family Medicine Residents on site: 8

2025 Quota: 4 CMG, 1 Competitive

**Additional Learners on Site**

Range of 0-2 undergraduate learners at a site at any given time

* * *

# Training Sites

### **Site name:**

South East Family Medicine Residency Program

**Training sites:**

Moosomin, Humboldt, Weyburn, Yorkton, Regina, Saskatoon

Size of community and catchment area:

Moosomin: population 3200; catchment area ~20000 <https://www.moosomin.com/>

Humboldt: population 6000; catchment area ~30000 <https://humboldt.ca/>

Weyburn: population 12000; catchment area ~20000 <https://weyburn.ca/>

Yorkton: population  ~ 16300 <https://www.yorkton.ca/en/index.aspx>

* * *

# Additional Information

**South East:**

  1. Faculty members that are diverse in training and interests.
  2. Low resident to faculty ratio allows for personalized education and mentorship.
  3. Plenty of continuity of care in home bases.
  4. Accommodations are provided on any mandatory rotations outside of the resident’s home base.
  5. There is an emphasis on rural medicine.  Residents learn how to practice in rural settings and come out of residency with confidence in their clinical and procedural skills.
  6. Extensive learning in the emergency room to support management of high acuity patients.
  7. Accessible recreation and wellness opportunities within the home bases and/or nearby.
  8. Flexibility and support to meet personal career goals.
  9. Learner-centered rather than service-based rotations.
  10. Resident feedback is highly valued and taken into consideration.

**Connect with us on social media!  
** Facebook: [@usaskfamilymed  
](https://www.facebook.com/usaskfamilymed)Instagram:
[@usaskfamilymed](https://www.instagram.com/usaskfamilymed/)

* * *

# FAQ

### **What types of training sites are offered through the University of
Saskatchewan?**

The University of Saskatchewan’s Department of Family Medicine is distributed
into 8 unique sites throughout the province. These postgraduate training sites
are designated as Urban, Regional, Rural or Northern.

  * **Urban** : A community with at least one Provincial Hospital (Regina and Saskatoon)
  * **Regional** : A community with health services that include a regional hospital
  * **Rural** : A community with health services that include a community or district hospital or other facility (Integrated Health Facility, Collaborative Emergency Centre).
  * **Northern** : A community situated in the Northern Saskatchewan Administrative District

Prospective residents are encouraged to attend virtual information sessions to
learn more about the various programs offered at each unique site:

  * La Ronge - Rural/Northern
  * Moose Jaw – Regional
  * North West – Regional/Rural
  * Prince Albert - Regional/Rural
  * Regina – Urban
  * Saskatoon - Urban
  * South East – Rural
  * Swift Current – Regional



### **What application streams are available through the University of
Saskatchewan?**

All sites have two streams (CMG and competitive) except La Ronge (competitive
only). Canadian and US allopathic medical school graduates are encouraged to
apply to both streams. IMGs including graduates from US osteopathic schools
may apply to the competitive stream of each site.



### What is the ratio of CMGs to IMGs matched to the University of
Saskatchewan Family Medicine Program?

Over the past 3 years, the ratio of CMGs to IMGs matched to the University of
Saskatchewan’s Family Medicine Program has been nearly equal. IMGs have
consistently made up close to 50% of the matched residents in the program.
This balanced representation ensures a diverse and inclusive training
environment where IMGs can find peer support and camaraderie throughout their
residency experience.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27180?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27180