#  University of Manitoba - Dermatology - Winnipeg

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited through joint institutional agreement

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Marni Wiseman  

Address Section of Dermatology  
336a- 820 Sherbrook Street  
Health Sciences Centre  
Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3A 1R9  

Work  204-787-8696

Websites of Interest [ University of Manitoba ](http://umanitoba.ca/)  
[ City of Winnipeg ](https://www.winnipeg.ca/interhom/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Tammy Corman

Title: Program Administrator

Email: tcorman@hsc.mb.ca

Phone: 204-787-8696

  

* * *

# Important Information

The University of Manitoba and University of Toronto are offering a conjoined
training position in Dermatology.

The successful candidate will complete the first 24 months of training
(PGY1&2) at the University of Manitoba in Winnipeg, completing extensive
training in Internal Medicine and other subspecialties,  according to Royal
College training requirements. The remainder of the training (PGY3–5
Dermatology portion) will be completed in the Dermatology Program at the
University of Toronto.

**The Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation, which is  mandatory, will be
held on June 26, 2025. **

* * *

# Return of Service

Applicants matched to the Dermatology residency training program are required
to sign a five (5) year return of service agreement  
---  
  
* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

You are required to declare any real or perceived conflicts of interest to
documents submitted in your application. For example (not an exhaustive list):
publications or projects done with family members, monetized dermatology
related projects, funding sources for experiences.

As the University of Manitoba program is only accepting CMG applicants, the
language proficiency section can be disregarded.  It is entered by PGME and
cannot be removed for this program description.

**Commitment to Equity, Diversity and Inclusion**

The joint dermatology residency program between the University of Manitoba and
the University of Toronto is committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff, and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society and assure that our program and curriculum prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 2

Two reference letters are required, but up to three will be accepted from
physicians who have worked with the applicant. See selection criteria. Please
make every effort to have referees include an email contact in their letter of
reference. If possible, you are encouraged to obtain at least one reference
from a dermatologist; this is helpful but not required. References should
attest to your interest and proficiency in the specialty as well as include
comments on exemplary interpersonal skills.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

Personal Letter - A personal letter expressing academic and career goals,
dermatology interests, and experiences is required. Please include a statement
in your personal letter indicating if you did, or did not, use Chat GPT or
other AI to generate any part of the letter.

Maximum word count: 1,000 (no minimum requirement)



Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Current [Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current-ear Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action required
from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to CaRMS on
your behalf for you to assign.

  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Current

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

Required if you attended an undergraduate program. Order from your Registrar.
If you do not have an undergrad transcript, please upload a document
explaining why.

Graduate Transcript (Master/PhD Degree)

Required if you have completed a Master's and/or PhD degree. Order from your
Registrar.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 9, 2025

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process:

Date: 9 February 2025

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process:

Interviews for dermatology will be program-initiated. All applications will be
reviewed by the Admissions Committee and scored by a minimum of 8 reviewers
with emphasis on the following criteria: outstanding academic record; quality
of personal letter; quality of references; evidence of proficiency with
CanMEDs competencies; elective experiences (see Electives Criteria);
interpersonal skills; publications and presentations; extra-curricular
involvement; and experience in research. The top ranked candidates will then
be invited for an interview. Interviews will occur in a virtual format,
details TBA. The inclusion/exclusion process will not be discussed with
applicants after interview selections are made. The selection process will
also not be discussed with interviewees after the CaRMS match.







* * *

# Selection Criteria

1\. A superior academic record demonstrating special proficiency in subjects
related to our specialty.

2. Candidates should have a proven interest in our specialty, demonstrated by at least one elective in dermatology or a related field.

3\. Two references are required; a third reference will be accepted.  If
possible, you are encouraged to obtain one reference from a dermatologist;
this is helpfu but not required. References should attest to your interest and
proficiency in the specialty, as well as include comments on exemplary
interpersonal skills. No more than three letters will be accepted or reviewed.

4\. Candidates with an interest and/or proven experience in research, either
at the level of basic science or clinical research, are encouraged to apply.

5\. Applicants are encouraged to outline unique circumstances that may have
had an impact on their education or career trajectory.

6\. A list of all elective rotations completed in medical school is required
(stated within the e-CaRMS AWS).

7\. Transcripts of ALL university courses taken are required (undergraduate,
medical school and graduate studies if applicable).

8\. Candidates should have a demonstrated commitment to working in Manitoba.

Elective Requirements:  
We encourage applicants to have completed at least one elective in our
specialty.

  
On-Site Elective:  
We do not require applicants to have done on-site electives.

## Program goals

The goal of the joint Dermatology Residency Program at the University of
Manitoba and University of Toronto is to provide an outstanding, broadbased
education in dermatology. Established in Toronto in 1964 to enable medical
school graduate physicians to receive specialty training in dermatology, it is
the largest such faculty in Canada and one of the largest in the world.
Clinical education encompasses both medical and surgical approaches to skin
disorders in a diverse population.

We are excited to combine training at both sites to accomplish these goals.



## Selection process goals

Successful applicants will possess the skills to obtain a broad-based
education in dermatology. In general, these skills include being organized,
responsible, reliable, and professional. Excellent verbal and written
communication skills and the ability to work in a team environment are highly
valued. Interest and experience in research and/or teaching are also
beneficial. Successful applicants will possess skills suited for lifelong
learning, teamwork, and interprofessional collaboration. They will also
benefit from good visual competency as well as having some facility in
procedural medicine. Successful candidates will be trained to provide
compassionate high quality patient care and contribute meaningfully to the
program, University, and profession. We aim to train dermatologists who
reflect the diversity of the Canadian population and who will work in a
variety of community and/or academic environments, in geographic locations
across the country.

## File review process

Review team composition : Review team composition: Program Directors from
University of Toronto and University of Manitoba, Division Director, 6–15
members of faculty, Chief Resident(s)  
  
Average number of applications received by University of Toronto program, in
the last five years: 51–200  
Average percentage of applicants offered interviews: 26–50 %  
  
As the joint University of Manitoba/University of Toronto program is
relatively new, there are no available applicant stats for the University of
Manitoba.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
No applicable stats for University of Manitoba

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  
No applicable stats for University of Manitoba

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Overview of applicant educational and work experience.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Interest in dermatology, exploration of other fields.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of extra-curricular engagement.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of leadership.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evidence of excellent medical student performance.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Evidence of commitment to dermatology, motivations, and written communication skills.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Objective assessments of applicant suitability for discipline and program.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Evidence of ability to be involved with and complete research.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evidence of academic excellence.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Candidates should have a proven interest in our specialty, demonstrated by at
least one elective in dermatology or a related field.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  Details regarding the interview process: This information can be
found in the INTERVIEW section above.  
  
  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence of collaborative ability   
Collegiality |  Evidence of collegiality   
Communication skills |  Demonstration of communication skills   
Health advocacy |  Evidence of health advocacy   
Interest in the discipline |  Evidence of interest in discipline   
Interest in the program |  Evidence of interest in our specific program   
Leadership skills |  Evidence of past leadership skills which may carry forward   
Professionalism |  Demonstration of professionalism   
Scholarly activities |  Evidence of previous scholarship   
Other interview component(s) |  Interviews will be conducted virtually. Details TBA. The offered virtual interview on the assigned day must be attended as no other interview days are available.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Quick Facts (Winnipeg)**

a. There are 14 part-time faculty in the Section of Dermatology in Manitoba.
Many of these members participate in resident education.

b. The University of Manitoba provides residents with access to electronic
medical resources.

c. There are monthly academic meetings for the section, which the resident
would be a part of.

**Quick Facts (Toronto)**

a. There are sixteen full-time faculty in the Division of Dermatology, who,
along with faculty in the Division of Paediatric Dermatology, form the full-
time staff at each of the major teaching sites. There are many major full- and
part-time faculty that participate regularly in resident teaching.

b. The Division supports a full academic day (Fridays) for PGY3–5 and a half-
day (Fridays) for PGY1 and PGY2 residents.

c. All residents are funded to attend continuing medical education events
within the Division (Toronto Psoriasis Day, Robert Lester Post-graduate Day,
Pediatric Dermatology Day, Women's Dermatology Day, etc.).

d. The University of Toronto provides residents with access to electronic
medical resources.

e. There are no mandatory rural rotations in our Program; community rotations
in Dermatology are a component of the PGY2 and PGY5 years.

f. Research Requirement: see Program Curriculum.



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

This program residency is five year(s) as per Royal College guidelines.

The goal of the joint Dermatology Residency Program at the University of
Toronto and University of Manitoba is to provide outstanding, broad-based
education in dermatology.

PGY1 and 2 years will be composed of extensive training in internal medicine
and subspecialty medicine, which will occur at the University of Manitoba
teaching sites. Residents in PGY1 and PGY2 will participate virtually in the
academic half day at the University of Toronto whenever possible.

First and second years consist of 13 blocks, each 4 weeks in duration.

  

The detailed rotations are:



**PGY1 Rotations (University of Manitoba)**

Rotation |  Duration |  Location / Notes  
---|---|---  
Ward Medicine  |  8 weeks |  Health Sciences Centre, St. Boniface Hospital, Grace Hospital   
Emergency Medicine  |  4 weeks  |   Health Sciences Centre, St. Boniface Hospital, Grace Hospital   
Peds CTU/Emerg/Clinic |  8 weeks |  Health Sciences Centre, St. Boniface, Community clinics  
Infectious Disease |  8 weeks  |  Health Sciences Centre, St. Boniface Hospital  
Rheumatology |  8 weeks |  Health Sciences Centre  
Dermatology  |  8 weeks  |  Various Dermatology clinics  
Allergy |  4 weeks |  Health Sciences Centre  
Vacation |  4 weeks |     
  
---  
  
**PGY2 Rotations (University of Manitoba)**  
|  Rotation |  Duration |  Location / Notes  
---|---|---  
Plastic Surgery  |  8 weeks |  Health Sciences Centre  
Peds Dermatology |  8 weeks  |  Health Sciences Centre  
Dermatology  |  8 weeks  |  Various Dermatology clinics  
Allergy and Immunology |  4 weeks  |  Health Sciences Centre  
Pediatric Rheumatology |  4 weeks  |  Health Sciences Centre  
Dermatopathology |  4 weeks |  Various Dermatology clinics  
Psychiatry |  4 weeks |  Health Sciences Centre  
Tropical Medicine / Wound Care |  4 weeks |  TBD  
Gastroenterology |  4 weeks  |  Health Sciences Centre, St. Boniface Hospital  
Medical Genetics |  4 weeks |  TBD  
Vacation |  4 weeks |      
  
  |   |    
  
  

**PGY3–5 (University of Toronto)**

Three years of dedicated resident training in dermatology. This includes:

Rotation |  Duration |  Location / Notes  
---|---|---  
General Clinical Dermatology including inpatient and outpatient exposure  |  15 months  |  Sunnybrook, Toronto Western Hospital, Women's College Hospital   
Pediatric Dermatology  |  4.5 months  |  Hospital for Sick Children   
Dermatopathology  |  6 months  |  Sunnybrook, University Health Network, Women's College Hospital   
Dermatologic Surgery  |  3 months  |  Women's College Hospital   
Elective or Dedicated Research Time |  6 months  |   Various sites  
Community Clinics  |  1.5 months  |  Community  
Senior Resident Clinic (concurrent in PGY4 or PGY5 years) |  3–12 months |  Hospital for Sick Children, Sunnybrook, Toronto Western Hospital, or Women's College Hospital  
  
All residents attend weekly case conferences and are invited to attend
quarterly case conference meetings of the Toronto Dermatological Society.



**Research**

All residents are encouraged to participate in research. A portion of Elective
time over PGY4–5 can be dedicated to full-time research at the discretion of
the Program Director, Research Director, and Competence Committee. Research
projects may encompass anything from Basic Science to Clinical and Health
Systems Research. Key areas of expertise within the faculty include molecular
medicine and health systems, research/epidemiology, and quality assurance. The
resident will liaise with either the Research Director (for research projects)
and/or the Program Director (for electives) a minimum of 6 months prior to the
start of the rotations.



**Seminars**

PGY1 and PGY2 - Please note: These sessions are hosted virtually through the
University of Toronto. Residents have a protected full academic day for the
first 6–8 weeks at the start of each academic year. This time involves a
dermatology boot camp focusing on staff-led lectures and workshops on core
aspects of dermatology as well as participation in City-wide Rounds. After
this introductory course, the protected academic time shifts to an academic
half-day that focuses on City-wide Rounds, CanMEDs competencies, and a
longitudinal staff-led lecture series and workshop over the two years. This
includes topics in morphology, differential diagnoses, and disease management.

PGY3 to PGY5 residents participate weekly in a full academic day, which
includes morphology sessions, topic reviews, dermatopathology, City-wide
Rounds, journal club and various topics focusing on CanMEDs competencies.
Additional seminar series include weekly basic sciences rounds and monthly
dermatologic surgery workshops. In addition, each teaching site conducts its
own Patient or Dermatopathology Rounds and seminar teaching.

Residents are encouraged to attend clinical scientific meetings in Canada, the
United States, and abroad.

* * *

# Training Sites

PGY 1–2: Winnipeg

The Division includes various clinical rotations within Health Sciences
Centre, St. Boniface General Hospital, and various dermatology clinics within
the city of Winnipeg. Specific details will be provided as a resident is
scheduled.



PGY 3–5: Toronto

The Division of Dermatology includes four main teaching sites: the Hospital
for Sick Children, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, University Health
Network (Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, Toronto General Hospital, Toronto
Western Hospital), and Women's College Hospital.

Multidisciplinary specialty clinics are held at the Hospital for Sick
Children, Sunnybrook, Women's College, and Toronto Western Hospital. Plastic
surgeons, dermatologists, radiation and medical oncologists, and
dermatopathologists work together to optimize therapy for patients in
cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, pigmented lesion, and skin cancer clinics. In the
Adverse Drug Reaction Clinic, clinical pharmacologists, immunologists, and
dermatologists collaborate to solve difficult clinical problems. In the
epidermoloysis bullosa clinic, multiple specialties work with the pediatric
and wound care dermatologists to optimize patient care. Other combined
specialty clinics include the pediatric morphea clinic, the adult combined
morphea clinic, the pediatric CTCL clinic, melanoma clinic, genodermatoses
clinic, and the occupational health clinic.

* * *

# Additional Information

PGY 1 and 2 residents will be required to complete a series of web based
modules of PGME Core curriculum courses, as part of their residency program
curriculum.







Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26368?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26368