#  University of Toronto - Radiation Oncology - Toronto  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 08, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Andrea Bezjak  

Address Radiation Oncology  
Princess Margaret Hospital  
610 University Avenue  
Toronto, Ontario, M5G 2M9  

Work  (416) 946-2853

Fax  (416) 971-2110

Websites of Interest [ Radiation Oncology at U of T
](http://www.radonc.utoronto.ca/radiation-oncology-residency)  
[ PGME at U of T ](http://www.pgme.utoronto.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Andrea Bezjak

Title: Program Director, Radiation Oncology Residency Training

Email: andrea.bezjak@uhn.ca

Phone: 416-946-2853

  

Name: Catherine Wong

Title: Postgraduate Coordinator

Email: catherinek.wong@utoronto.ca

Phone: 416-978-3223

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion**  
All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of the
University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

  
**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)  
** The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.  
  
_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

If possible one or more letters from a faculty member in Radiation Oncology is
helpful but not required.

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  800

  

Please include the following information in your Personal Letter:

-What do you know about Radiation Oncology?

-Why are you applying to Radiation Oncology?

-What makes you a strong candidate for Radiation Oncology residency and specialty?

Personal Letter should be maximum 2 pages (no more than 800 words)  
  
_Important Note: Please address any gaps in training or remediation periods in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count._

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 28, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews to be held Tuesday, January 28,
2025 (virtual interviews)  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All applications will be reviewed by
the selection committee using a standardized, objective application assessment
protocol to short list candidates for interview. The interview date has been
coordinated with all the other Radiation Oncology Programs in Canada.  
  
The interview is semi-structured, with several panels, each focusing on a
specific characteristic. This has been developed to assess specific
characteristics of the candidate.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates should have:

\- A strong academic record

\- A proven interest in our specialty, demonstrated by experience in our
specialty or related fields

\- References should attest to proficiency in clinical skills and provide
comments on maturity, interpersonal skills, ability to work independently and
potential for an academic career

\- Evidence of Research or Scholarly activity is mandatory.

\- Elective rotations at the University of Toronto are not required.

\- A personal letter is mandatory.

## Program goals

The program aims to attract and nurture dynamic enquiring individuals who are
interested and enthusiastic about radiation oncology. Through an adaptive and
responsive training program, trainees will learn about all areas of oncology
and gain specific expertise within the radiation oncology field to allow them
to contribute and advance the profession. Scholarly enquiry is emphasized and
facilitated with active encouragement to undertake research in basic science,
translational or clinical areas. With a dedicated faculty and excellent
resources, we encourage and guide our residents to utilize the many and myriad
learning opportunities to enable them to maximize their potential and lead the
way in radiation oncology.

## Selection process goals

  * High academic achievement record as evidenced by transcripts, examination scores, comments, CV and awards
  * Demonstrated strong clinical competency and knowledge
  * Demonstrated strong interpersonal, communication and collaboration skills
  * Demonstrated motivation, initiative
  * Proven interest in scholarly activity, ability to complete projects (as appropriate to their academic background/environment) and intellectual curiosity
  * Commitment to learning
  * Familiar with and has a good /realistic understanding of RO and demands of residency and specialty
  * Demonstrated leadership qualities, initiative, dedication to some cause
  * Motivated to excel in a busy/demanding environment
  * High ethical and professional standards

## File review process

Review team composition : Residency Program Director, Associate directors,
physics director/representatives, Residency research director, chief/senior
residents, and additional faculty representatives

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  All contents including research endeavors, publications, volunteer activities & interest   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We recognize that arranging for electives is impacted by factors that may be outside the candidate’s control. We hope that candidates will have had electives that allow them to understand our specialty well.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We evaluate academic results   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Look for evidence of involvement and interests   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership positions and programs that help develop leadership skills   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  We evaluate all past performance   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Familiarity with and interest in radiation oncology, reasons why he/she is interested in our program   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Familiarity with radiation oncology, candidates clinical and research abilities, their strengths   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Participation & dedication to research activities as well as publications   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  All academic performance including undergraduate, medical school & any other programs enrolled in   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We evaluate the ability to work in a team environment to provide exemplary care   
Collegiality |  We evaluate behaviour, attitudes and professionalism as demonstrated by the candidate   
Communication skills |  We evaluate proficiency in effective written and spoken English within a team environment   
Health advocacy |  We evaluate ability to advocate for quality and safety of patient care.   
Interest in the discipline |  We evaluate interest, and dedication to the knowledge and skills required to practice   
Interest in the program |  We evaluate interest and commitment to our Radiation Oncology Residency program   
Leadership skills |  We evaluate a commitment to developing leadership skills   
Professionalism |  We evaluate the ability to demonstrate professional conduct at all times   
Scholarly activities |  We evaluate all scholarly activity including research, publication and teaching   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

We are a fully accredited program and Competency by Design (CBD) has been
fully launched in Radiation Oncology training programs across Canada in
2019-2020 academic year. The program will continue to be a 5 year program,
divided into four stages of the Competence Curriculum:

Transition to Discipline (i.e. orientation) – 2 months

Foundations of Discipline (i.e. medical, surgical and related training that is
the foundation of radiation oncology) – 9-12 months

Core of discipline (i.e. radiation oncology rotations) - 36 - 44 months

Transition to Practice (after the Royal College Specialty examination) - 5 -9
months

More frequent assessments of clinical competencies and documentation of
mastery of entrustable professional activities (EPAs) occur on rotations both
within radiation oncology and other specialties where our trainees are
rotating.

More information about CBD can be found at the Royal College website:

<http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e>_    _

The sections below describes the curriculum and schedules for the July 2024
cohort, and is anticipated to be the same or similar for the July 2025 cohort
of residents:

**  
PGY-1 Year – Transition to Discipline and Foundations of Discipline**

This first postgraduate year stresses a broad based education with a 2 block
(8 week) rotation that starts in Radiation Oncology, with a combination of
lectures, orientations, and clinical experience in clinics and on inpatient
wards, both at Princess Margaret and Odette Cancer Center. These two blocks in
July and August offer teaching in basic oncology, clinical skills,
communication skills, research methods, ethics, in addition to introduction
and orientation to systems, technology, clinics, wards and expectations during
residency, and constitute the “Transition to Discipline” (TTD).

The expectation is that residents will be able to demonstrate competencies in
the following two entrustable professional activities (EPAs): EPA
TTD-1-RadOnc: History and Physical Exam, and EPA TTD-2-RadOnc: Patient
Handover

Following these two initial blocks the residents will rotate in a variety of
medical and surgical specialties, including some or all of the following:
internal medicine, surgical oncology, medical oncology, ENT, palliative care.
These rotations take place at one of several University of Toronto teaching
hospitals (University Health Network i.e. Toronto General, Toronto Western and
Princess Margaret Hospital, Sunnybrook hospital which includes Odette Cancer
center, Mt. Sinai Hospital).

These rotations form the “Foundations of Discipline” (FOD). In addition to
goals and objectives specific to each rotation, residents will be expected to
work towards the following EPAs during this phase:

EPA FOD-RadOnc-1 Assessing and managing patients with common medical and
surgical problems in various settings

EPA FOD-RadOnc-2 Identifying learning needs from clinical encounters and
addressing one’s own gaps in knowledge and skills with guidance

EPA FOD-RadOnc-3 Assessing and managing patients with a cancer diagnosis in
various settings

In addition to teachings and learnings during rotations, the Physics
curriculum begins in the PGY1 year and will carry on into the PGY2 year, and
the Academic Half day for all Radiation Oncology residents (PGY1-5) takes
place every Friday AM, 9-12, in-person at PMH or Odette.

**  
PGY-2 Year - starting Core of Discipline**

In the second postgraduate year, residents will begin their radiation oncology
rotations, starting with rotations that focus on one clinical site at a time
(e.g. lung, palliative RT, breast cancer, or GU cancers), working with several
staff oncologists, and gradually progressing to more complex clinical sites.
Focus is on acquiring knowledge about workup and management of those cancers,
and developing skills in radiation planning (outlining targets for radiation,
organs at risk, evaluating plans etc). Residents at both PMH and Odette have
on-call duties, looking after inpatients and taking urgent calls from
outpatients after hours and on weekends (not during the day). The on-call at
PMH is in house and includes carrying the code pager after hours and on
weekends (not during the day M-F), and at Odette is from home, but the
resident may need to come in, eg to see consults in ER. Residents are always
supported by staff while on call. Call frequency is well within PARO
guidelines, and residents have a day off post-call for in-house call.

Clinical oncology teaching sessions are scheduled for all residents in a
weekly academic half-day (Friday AM) and include case-based drills regarding
patient management and treatment planning. All residents are expected to
attend AHD and are freed from clinical duties to do so.

The six EPAs that are the focus of the Core of Discipline (COD) are:

EPA COD-RadOnc-1 Performing and presenting initial assessment

EPA COD-RadOnc-2 Developing and communicating a management plan

EPA COD-RadOnc-3 Developing, evaluating and implementing radiation treatment
plans

EPA COD-RadOnc-4 Managing patients with cancer through their treatment

EPA COD-RadOnc-5 Developing plans for follow-up, surveillance, and
survivorship, for patients with cancer

EPA COD-RadOnc-6 Delivering scholarly teaching to a wide variety of audiences

**  
PGY-3 and 4 Years – Core of Discipline**

These years primarily consist of radiation oncology rotations at PMH & OCC.
All the clinical sites will be covered (gynae, GI, sarcoma, lymphoma,
pediatric, ENT etc), working typically with one or more staff RO at a time,
for two to three months at a time. Focus is on developing competencies in all
aspects of radiation oncology decision making and planning, including seeing
patients in clinic (new patient consults, follow-ups, reviews), contouring and
plan evaluation, monitoring of patients, assessment of response, dealing with
toxicities and ongoing surveillance, as well as interacting with the radiation
therapy team and the multidisciplinary team in providing care for the
patients..

The formal curriculum includes: weekly academic half-day consisting of
treatment planning drills and lectures covering all aspects of the radiation
oncology curriculum, as well as career planning and resident wellness and
other topics to cover all CANMEDS roles.

Written or planning exams are held annually so that residents can be assessed
and prepared for the Royal College exams.

There is a mandatory community RO rotation (at Southlake Regional or Royal
Victoria Hospital, as per resident choice) and opportunities for electives in
other centres.

The UTDRO program places a large emphasis on research and scholarly work. Each
resident is expected to complete several research projects during the program
and submit manuscripts for publication. Opportunities to present completed
work are available annually and residents are supported to present their work
at national and international conferences. Research time can be taken if the
project requires dedicated time, and if the resident is progressing well in
their clinical training.

Throughout the entire training program, clinical conferences,
seminars/tutorials and formal courses emphasize and reinforce the academic
aspects of the specialty. We support residents going to conferences and
provide stipends for elective rotations.

**  
PGY-5 – Completion of Core of Discipline, Transition to Practice**

It is anticipated that all Core EPAs will be completed by this time, and that
residents will be proceeding to the Royal College specialty exams (written are
currently anticipated to occur in spring of the PGY4 year and oral in the fall
of the PGY5 year. Successful residents will then enter a Transition to
Practice (TTP) phase of their training in which they will consolidate their
clinical knowledge further, gain more independence and pursue other activities
that fit with their career goals. The following EPAs will need to be completed
during this phase:

EPA TTP-RadOnc-1   Providing radiation oncology consultation and management
for patients with cancer or other indications for radiation therapy

EPA TTP-RadOnc-2   Contributing to administrative and professional aspects of
a radiation oncology practice

EPA TTP-RadOnc-3   Managing a medical error/adverse event

EPA TTP-RadOnc-4   Executing a scholarly project relevant to Radiation
Oncology

It is only upon completion of all aspects of their training, and successful
completion of the Royal College Specialty Exams, that residents will have
completed their Radiation Oncology Specialty training and be granted FRCPC
status.









Research  
  

Each resident is encouraged to complete one or more research projects during
the program and produce a manuscript for publication. Opportunities to present
completed work are available annually and residents are supported to present
their work at national and international conferences.

  
  

Seminars & Courses  
  

Throughout the entire training program, clinical conferences,
seminars/tutorials and formal courses emphasize and reinforce the academic
aspects of the specialty.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

\- University Health Network (UHN) incorporating the Princess Margaret Cancer
Centre, The Toronto Western Hospital (TWH), and The Toronto General Hospital
(TGH).

\- Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre (SHSC) incorporating the Odette Cancer
Centre (OCC)

\- Mount Sinai Hospital (MSH)

\- Hospital for Sick Children (HSC)

\- Southlake Regional Hospital, Newmarket

\- Royal Victoria Hospital, Barrie  
  

For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>

  * A flexible, tailored education experience based at two large radiation oncology centres in Toronto: The Princess Margaret & The Odette Cancer Centre.
  * A multidisciplinary and inter-professional teaching faculty and clinical environment
  * An excellent pass rate on national RCPSC certification examinations
  * Leading international experts for teaching, mentorship, and career counselling within faculty
  * Supportive educational enviroment and collegial peer group 
  * State of the art technology for training
  * Great research opportunities and variety of research training options
  * All the advantages of living in a large multicultural city

* * *

# Additional Information

  1. **Permanent Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education office in order to comply with current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry of Colleges and Universities
  2. **Matched applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data file to the matched university’s postgraduate education office. The postgraduate office will share the information as needed, but not limited to, the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:**  The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure to meet or provide proof**  of any of the stated requirements may result in applicant file being removed at any point during the match.

Quick Facts:

\- The Department of Radiation Oncology at the University of Toronto is one of
the largest radiation oncology academic departments in the world.

\- There are opportunities for electives during residency training, with a
small stipend provided. Residents must be in good academic standing in order
to be considered for the out-of-town electives.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26978?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26978