#  Queen’s University - Family Medicine - Oshawa Lakeridge  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on February 19, 2025

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 9

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Kim Curtin  

Address Family Medicine  
Bowmanville-Oshawa-Lakeridge Site  
1 Hospital Court  
Oshawa, Ontario, L1G 4T5  

Work  613-533-2240

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Queen's University Department of Family Medicine
](https://familymedicine.queensu.ca/academics)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Seema Jain

Title: Bowmanville-Oshawa-Lakeridge Site Director

Email: seema.jain@dfm.queensu.ca

  

Name: Julie Hodges

Title: Bowmanville-Oshawa-Lakeridge Senior Site Program Coordinator

Email: julie.hodges@queensu.ca

  

Name: Hollee Wedge

Title: Bowmanville-Oshawa-Lakeridge Site Program Coordinator

Email: hollee.wedge@queensu.ca

  

Name: Mary Mejia

Title: Program and Events Coordinator

Email: DFM-carms@queensu.ca

Phone: 613-533-6000 ext 78038

  

* * *

# Important Information

Your application to the Queen's Family Medicine Residency Program will be
centrally processed for all four training sites: Kingston-1000 Islands,
Belleville-Quinte, Peterborough-Kawartha, and Queen's-Bowmanville-Oshawa-
Lakeridge. This process means that you will only have one interview, with
results communicated to each site you have applied to. You must make a
separate application to each site you are interested in. Please _include all
required_  documentation in each application and submit the same documentation
to each site. You will have the opportunity to individually rank each site you
are interested in.

Family Medicine at Queen's is a fully accredited program with strong oversight
and communication across all four sites. Each site has a Site Director,
Curriculum Lead, Assessment Lead, Research and Informatics Lead, Faculty
Development Lead and a Program Coordinator to ensure there is strong
collaboration and communication across the sites.

**Note to Couples:**

You are welcome to indicate if you are applying to us as a "couple match". We
will make every attempt to schedule you and your partner for clinical
rotations/experiences that will allow you to have time together.

**EDIIA Institutional Statement:**

The goal of resident selection is to identify trainees likely to succeed both
in training and, once out in practice, in meeting the health care needs of
patients and Canadian society.  We know that having a physician workforce that
reflects the demographics of the patients that they serve improves health care
outcomes.  There are many populations within Canada under-represented in
medicine (UIM) with a paucity of health care practitioners who are Black,
Indigenous, Persons of Colour, 2SLGBTQ+, from lower socioeconomic backgrounds
and/or with disabilities, and other under-represented in medicine (UIM)
groups. Diversity within training programs has also been shown to improve
training environments.  Queen’s University PGME is strongly committed to
diversity and inclusion within its community for these reasons as well as
being part of the solution to address historic and contemporary inequities.

**Equity and diversity**

We welcome diversity among our trainees and seek to foster an environment that
is welcoming to all, regardless of gender identity, race, religion, or sexual
orientation.

We are committed to advancing equitable and inclusive practices.  Please refer
to the [PGME website](https://meds.queensu.ca/academics/postgraduate/faculty-
staff/applicant-selection) for additional information / resources including
[QHS EDIIA Initiatives](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi) and [EDIIA
statements](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi/accessibility-
statements) (Indigenous Land Acknowledgement, Anti-Discrimination Statement,
Inclusion Statement, and Statement on Social Accountability)

**Note to First Nation, Inuit and/or Métis  applicants:**

At the present time, CaRMS does not have a self-identification process for
First Nation, Inuit and/or Métis applicants. The Queen's Department of Family
Medicine is committed to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission’s Calls to
Action on Health. For this reason, we offer any First Nation, Inuit and/or
Métis applicants to our residency program the opportunity to self-identify in
their personal letter during the application process. We also invite First
Nation, Inuit and/or Métis applicants offered interviews to self-identify when
selecting interview dates. This information helps us identify ways in which
the residency program can connect First Nation, Inuit and/or Métis applicants
to specific resources and supports.

**FMProC Details:**

All applicants (CMG and IMGs) to ALL Canadian Family Medicine Programs, in the
1st and 2nd rounds of the CaRMS cycle, are required to sit an online
Situational Judgement Test (SJT), called “FMProC” (Family Medicine
Professional Choices).

Registration window for first round:

  * Registration opens September 11th at 12 noon ET and closes on November 7th at 10AM ET. If you register before October 23rd, 2024, you will receive the test link on or before October 28th, which can be accessed once the test window opens. If you register after October 23rd, you will receive the test link within two business days.
  * Applicants should register early and take the test early during the dates posted.
  * First Round testing window is open from October 28, 2024, 8AM ET to November 11, 2024, 10AM ET.

**Requests to register or to sit the test outside of the posted deadlines
_will not be considered_. All deadlines are final. It is your responsibility
to review the deadlines carefully.**

To register and ﬁnd out more about the test please go to
[fmproc.com](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.fmproc.com%2F&data=05%7C02%7Ckim.wallace%40queensu.ca%7C1c1691b7f7264e0b6ebc08dcd7115566%7Cd61ecb3b38b142d582c4efb2838b925c%7C1%7C0%7C638621716649322963%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=NO06Y1RNsuzKpyL2CWb%2FYwK2AluDYneWEdBPsMQzmn4%3D&reserved=0).
All test related updates will be posted on the website.

Your FMProC score will be submitted to CaRMS and automatically uploaded into
your individual applicant account. You will receive an email notification from
CaRMS when the FMProC score has been uploaded into your account. Your FMProC
score will be automatically assigned to family medicine programs that you
apply to through CaRMs.

**COVID-19 vaccination requirements:**

Please refer to the 'Restrictions' section of the [Ontario eligibility
criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/) for messaging regarding COVID-19 vaccination requirements.

**Gaps in Training, Remediation, or Professionalism issues**

Please address any gaps in training, remediation, or professionalism issues in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph at the end of your personal
letter titled Transcript Addendum. This will not count towards your maximum
word count.



* * *

# Return of Service

If you have a ROS agreement in another province please ensure you aware of the
commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

**FMProC Information**  

All applicants (CMG and IMGs) to our Family Medicine Program, in the 1st
**and**  2nd rounds of the CaRMS cycle, are required to sit a new online
Situational Judgement Test (SJT), called “FM-ProC” (Family Medicine
Professional Choices).

For the 2025 residency selection cycle ALL FM residency programs in Canada
require applicants to sit FMProC for those applying in both rounds of CaRMS.
To support this we provide the test with the following registration and test
window dates:  
  
**1st round  
Registration:  
**Opens 11th September @ noon ET.  
**Closes 7th November @ 10 AM ET.**  
We strongly advise you not to leave registration till the last minute.  
  
**Test Window:**  
Opens 28th October @ 8 AM ET.  
**Closes 11th November @ 10 AM ET.  
  
**ALL 18 FM Residency Programs require the FMProC for both rounds of the
upcoming CaRMS cycle, but you only need to register, pay for, and sit the
test, once.

To register and ﬁnd out more about the test please go to
[fmproc.com](fmproc.com). All test related updates will be posted on the
website.

**  
**THESE DEADLINES ARE FINAL AND NO REQUEST FOR LATE REGISTRATION OR LATE
SITTING OF THE TEST WILL BE CONSIDERED****



Please note that due to the volume of applications our program receives we are
not able to provide individual feedback to applicants who are not successful
in the match.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Examinations

Required

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Reference letters using the Family Medicine Structured Reference Letter
submitted through CaRMS will be the only form of reference letters accepted.

Three (3) references are required, at least one of which should be from a
Canadian Family Physician.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

The personal letter is a crucial part of your CaRMS application. Your letter
should be approximately 500 words and should focus on you as an individual,
and your interest in Family Medicine. Please read the description of our
program and our goals on our
[website](https://familymedicine.queensu.ca/academics). In your personal
letter, indicate why you feel that Queen's Family Medicine Program would be a
good match for you. We are particularly interested in your life experiences
and goals that you feel make you an excellent candidate for our program.
Please include your personal contact information in your letter (e.g. address,
email, phone etc.).

Please address any gaps in training, remediation, or professionalism issues in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph at the beginning of your personal
letter titled Transcript Addendum. This will not count towards your maximum
word count.

Custom Résumé / CV

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

**Proof of Medical Diploma (MD)**

Documents that are not in English must be accompanied by a notarized
translation. Students applying in the last year of medical school will need to
submit their most recent marks/transcripts, and will need to provide proof of
their MD to CPSO prior to the start of residency training.

Optional - will be reviewed

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Photograph will be used for memory aid/recall purposes only.

Name Change

If any of your documents bear a name different from the one you are currently
using, please provide official proof of your change of name.

Abstract/Publications

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Your application will be reviewed in December 2024. You will be notified by
email if you have been selected for an interview. This email will contain
information about how to schedule your interview.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 28, 2025
  * January 30, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interview Dates: Tuesday, January 21, 2025,
Thursday, January 23, 2025, Tuesday, January 28, 2025 and Thursday, January
30, 2025  Please note: All interviews will be in a virtual format this year.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: We believe strongly in the interview
process. The interview is as much for you to learn about us as it is for us to
learn about you. We will be hosting all interviews over Zoom. If needed,
please let us know how we can best accommodate you. We will host an
information session with our Program Director, Site Directors, Enhanced Skills
Program Director, and current residents at the beginning of the interview
period. This session provides an overview of our program, and information
about our amazing learning experiences, teaching sites and learning resources.
There will be ample opportunity to have your questions answered. There is no
examination component to the interview. We look forward to meeting you
virtually!  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We seek mature, compassionate, enthusiastic individuals with a broad range of
life experiences who are committed to practicing the breadth of Family
Medicine and who will be actively engaged in their learning and with the
program.

## Program goals

In keeping with our motto "Train at Queen's. Work Anywhere", Queen's trains
highly competent generalist family physicians who are equipped to work
anywhere in Canada and provide skilled medical care to their communities.
While adhering to the College of Family Physicians of Canada's competency-
based "Triple C" Curriculum (Comprehensive learning, Continuity of patient
care, curriculum and supervision, and Family Medicine centered education) and
leveraging community specific resources, each of our training sites fully
equips future family medicine physicians to be leaders, scholars, and
clinicians who will serve and lead in the rapidly changing Canadian healthcare
environment.

## Selection process goals

Our selection process seeks to identify and recruit future physicians who have
demonstrated alignment with our program goals. We are interested in applicants
who clearly excel in all CanMEDS roles with particular attention to a strong
academic record, communication skills, and collaboration skills. We also seek
to select those applicants who will be engaged in the ongoing improvement of
our program.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our file review team consists of Queen's faculty
members.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 601 +  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Research, awards, electives, employment, and extracurriculars   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We look for understanding and interest in family medicine   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  FMProC score   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Well-balanced applicants who have demonstrated interests outside of medicine   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Recent leadership successes are an asset   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic performance, endorsements of interpersonal and professional qualities   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  An interest in Family Medicine and Queen's   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Well-rounded applicants skilled in all CanMEDS roles and interested in Family Medicine   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research experience and publications are an asset but not a requirement   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  High scholarly performance. Absences from training must be noted and clearly explained your personal letter   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives
and realize the opportunities to do these are limited.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We are looking for evidence of interest and understanding of Family Medicine.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Communication style, review of inter-professional collaborative experiences   
Collegiality |  Communication style and demeanour   
Communication skills |  Clear and concise style   
Health advocacy |  Demonstration of advocacy is an asset   
Interest in the discipline |  Clear interest in primary care   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest in the Queen's Family Medicine Program   
Leadership skills |  Any aspect of the LEADS framework may be explored during the interview   
Professionalism |  Communication, demeanour, discussion and demonstration of professional conduct   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Queen’s University Family medicine is a highly regarded program which was
established in 1972. Our two-year program is based on  
the College of Family Physicians of Canada competency-based “Triple C”
Curriculum (Comprehensive learning; Continuity of patient  
care, curriculum, and supervision; and family medicine-centred education). The
program consists of core family medicine experiences  
complemented by experiences in other specialties relevant to family medicine.

In 2010, our program expanded from a single site in Kingston to three sites
across South Eastern Ontario (Kingston & 1000 Islands,  
Belleville-Quinte, and Peterborough-Kawartha). In 2012, a fourth site
(Queen's-Bowmanville-Oshawa-Lakeridge) was added. Our motto  
is, “Train at Queen’s. Work Anywhere.” This is demonstrated by our graduates
practising all over Canada from remote and rural areas  
to large inner-city practices. Using centrally set objectives and assessment
standards, all four of our vibrant sites use their unique local  
strengths and resources to deliver exceptional training. Residents match to
and train at one of our four sites, with all the sites coming  
together three or four times a year for innovative teaching sessions and
social events. Queen’s Family Medicine has twice earned the  
Professional Association of Residents of Ontario (PARO) Residency Program
Excellence Award [Residency Program Excellence Award](https://myparo.ca/paro-
awards/#residency-program-excellence-award), making us the only program to win
this prestigious resident-driven recognition more than once. Furthermore, so
far we are the only Family Medicine program in the province to receive this
award.  In addition to our two wins, we have been nominated for this award in
five other years, from 2012 to 2023 inclusive. We were also honoured to
receive the 2014 [Keith Award](https://www.srpc.ca/past-winners), given to the
program with the greatest number of residents practising in rural communities.
Make sure to explore our four program sites on our
[website](https://familymedicine.queensu.ca/academics)!

Our postgraduate program typically includes boot camp (an introductory block
to residency that residents endorse as setting a great foundation for their
training); a robust global health curriculum; a bi-annual wilderness retreat,
alternating professional sustainability retreat; innovative simulation courses
(including our highly regarded Nightmares FM course); opportunities to teach
and engage in research. Experiences in rural and remote community hospitals
(including Moose Factory, Ontario, and the Falkland Islands). It also offers
international electives. Additionally, we have many enhanced skills programs.

Queen's-Bowmanville-Oshawa-Lakeridge (QBOL) Program Highlights:

  * Our site was designed based on the CFPC's Triple C Competency-based curriculum
  * Academic days have been mapped to cover the 105 Priority Topics during PGY1
  * A wide variety of speciality and Family Medicine preceptors experienced in teaching Family Medicine residents
  * The first two months of PGY1 are designed to provide you with a basic “tool kit" which frontloads foundational academic and simulation teaching to increase your confidence and consolidate your skills
  * Longitudinal availability for your Family Medicine clinic
  * One four-week block of inpatient care during both PGY1 and PGY2 and 8 weeks of total elective time
  * An 8- to 12-week block of rural family medicine in PGY2

Besides the blocks mentioned above, you will learn in a Family Medicine clinic
longitudinally about half the time, with additional integrated learning
experiences scheduled alongside. These experiences include the labour and
delivery ward in the first half of your PGY1 year. Those shifts will switch
over to ER shifts midway through your PGY1 year, although you have the option
to also continue with additional OB shifts. Other clinical experiences such as
outpatient procedural skills, pediatrics, palliative care, long-term care, and
dermatology will also be part of your schedule.

We also pair you to a different Family Medicine preceptor for your PGY2 year
to allow you to see additional practice styles and have opportunity to
experience different patient populations and practice styles. In addition, our
residents have access (but are not limited) to preferred rural rotations in
Port Perry, Haliburton, and Lindsay.

For more information about the QBOL program, [visit our
website](https://familymedicine.queensu.ca/academics/program-sites/queens-
bowmanville-oshawa-lakeridge-qbol).



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Program Summary:**

  * “Tool kit" in first two months of PGY1 to assist in transition to residency:
    * Queen’s Nightmares FM Simulation Course
    * NRP course
    * Introduction to community services and resources
    * Team building
    * Introduction to evidence-based medicine and research
    * Start in FM Clinic and acclimatize to EMR
  * Horizontal “Triple C” curriculum (Comprehensive learning, Continuity of learning, and family medicine-Centred education)
  * About half of your time will be spent in family medicine clinic each week with your primary preceptor
  * Additional horizontal experiences in other disciplines relevant to family medicine
  * Eight weeks of electives available over the two years
  * Four weeks of dedicated hospitalist/inpatient medicine per year
  * Graduated responsibilities and volume in emergency medicine; starting at Lakeridge Health Bowmanville   
in PGY1 to build proficiency, then moving to Lakeridge Health Oshawa and
Lakeridge Health Ajax-Pickering in PGY2 for increased volume and complexity

  * OB shifts in a high-volume setting in the first half of first year to build proficiency
  * 8 to 12 weeks of rural community family medicine in PGY2
  * Surgical and procedural skills through outpatient/office procedures in addition to core experiences such as emergency and inpatients

**PGY1:**

  * First two months provide “tool-kit” of important skills and training
  * Full-day academic teaching spaced out over the year mapped to the CFPC Priority Topics
  * Journal club
  * Family medicine on-call and urgent care clinics
  * Four weeks of hospitalist/internal medicine
  * Additional horizontal experiences:
    * OB call (24-hour shifts)
    * Emergency medicine
    * Office procedures
    * Dermatology clinics
    * Psychiatry/behavioural medicine
    * Pediatrics
    * Long-term care
    * Palliative care
    * Other outpatient clinics (e.g. cardiology, student health clinic, etc.)
  * Four weeks of electives available

**PGY2:**

  * Change Family Medicine preceptor for PGY2 for different practice profile, style, and locale
  * Teaching specific to PGY2 focused on evidence-based medicine review and consolidating for exam
  * Family Medicine on-call and urgent care clinics
  * Eight to 12 weeks of rural community family medicine (locations include Lindsay, Port Perry, or others)
  * Graduated responsibility and complexity in ER as you progress
  * Continued horizontal experiences from first year



* * *

# Training Sites

**QBOL Site Communities**

Beyond our modern curriculum, practising in the Durham Region (which spans
from Pickering to Newcastle) gives you the opportunity to learn and work in
both large and small communities. You will serve a broad and diverse patient
population of all ages and social and economic backgrounds.

Lakeridge Health Corporation is a large multispecialty hospital with sites in
Ajax-Pickering, Bowmanville, Oshawa, Port Perry, and Whitby. Lakeridge Health
Oshawa (LHO) features one of the busiest emergency departments in Ontario and
is home to the Durham Regional Cancer Centre. Lakeridge Health Bowmanville is
a community-based hospital largely run by family physicians. Your Family
Medicine rotations will be at area clinics that have been carefully selected
for their size and quality; all also utilize EMR.

The Lakeridge Health Education and Research Network (LHEARN) Centre at LHO
offers excellent resources and support for learners in the region. The centre
features simulation labs, a resident lounge, a library, study rooms, and
various classrooms and meeting rooms. You will also have electronic access to
all Queen's University library resources.

As of 2023, there are now also Queen’s medical students based out of Lakeridge
Health, which adds to the richness of the training environment and has
provided increased teaching opportunities for residents.

**Bowmanville**

[Visit Clarington Tourism](https://www.clarington.net/en/tourism/index.asp)

Bowmanville is the central town in Clarington, which is a collection of
vibrant small communities including Courtice, Newcastle Village, and Orono.
All these communities are surrounded by scenic farmland and countryside that
are favourites for cyclists. Clarington captures the spirit of a small town
without sacrificing the amenities of a larger city and balances urban services
with small-town appeal, and is close to both Toronto and cottage country.

Clarington features recreational opportunities for all ages: two indoor and
three outdoor swimming pools, five arenas (with seven ice pads total), an
indoor soccer/outdoor lacrosse facility, six golf courses, three driving
ranges, and more than 90 parks. Canadian Tire Motorsport Park is a great place
to take in a race or even participate in a track day. Families always enjoy
outdoor activities and picking seasonal produce at Watson Farms or Pingles
Farm, Jungle Cat World provides an opportunity to take a walk on the wild
side! And in the winter, Brimacombe offers wonderful skiing.

**Oshawa  **

[Oshawa Visitors Guide](https://www.oshawa.ca/en/parks-recreation-and-
culture/visiting-oshawa.aspx)

Oshawa is the largest municipality in Durham Region which is the eastern
gateway to the Greater Toronto area. Sitting on the north shore of Lake
Ontario, Oshawa extends north to the beautiful landscape of the Oak Ridges
Moraine, yet is only 45 minutes from downtown Toronto and 40 minutes from
cottage country, traffic not withstanding.

There are an enormous variety of things to enjoy while living here.

Downtown Oshawa is undergoing a renaissance with the Tribute Communities
Centre, a modern arena that hosts the OHL Oshawa Generals hockey team.
Additional events such as concerts, family entertainment, and other sporting
spectacles have all utilized this venue. There is also the newly restored
historic Regent Theatre for live performances. Redevelopment of the downtown
has also supported a variety of new and interesting restaurants.

For outdoor enthusiasts, one can ride beautifully treed, off-road bike paths
from downtown over rivers and streams to the waterfront trail at Lakeview Park
on Lake Ontario, where beaches, picnic areas, and children's playgrounds
beckon. Just remember it’s downhill to the lake and uphill back!

Other interesting features of Oshawa include historic Parkwood Estate; the
Canadian Automotive Museum; the Robert McLaughlin Art Gallery; Oshawa Little
Theatre; Ontario Philharmonic Orchestra; the Oshawa Centre (regional mall);
the annual Peony Festival; the international flavours of the annual Fiesta
Week; and the Oshawa Aeronautical, Military and Industrial Museum at the
Oshawa Municipal Airport (yes, they offer flying lessons!).

Oshawa boasts cultural and culinary festivals, and the shopping, sports, and
recreational facilities expected of a city of its size and stature.

**Durham Region**

[Discover Durham Region](https://www.durham.ca/en/tourism/index.aspx)

Clarington and Oshawa are both within Durham Region, which offers a wide
variety of additional activities such as hang gliding, recreation, skiing,
golf, restaurants, indoor kids' playgrounds, trampoline parks, escape rooms,
archery, movie theatres, paintball, indoor skydiving, treetop trekking,
further shopping opportunities and much more!  
  
And if that’s not enough, Toronto is a short trip away for access to major
arts, sporting events, and big-city life.

* * *

# Additional Information

Comprehensive learning means we will guide you as you become proficient in the
full scope of family medicine: office and community-based care, inpatient
care, emergency medicine, chronic care, obstetrics, and the psychosocial
aspects of medicine that affect all age groups.

Continuity of patient care means we prioritize giving you opportunities to
follow patients in your family medicine clinics, hospitals, and long-term care
facilities. Continuity of supervision means you will have a designated primary
preceptor during each core family medicine placement and you will have one
academic advisor assigned for the duration of your residency. Continuity of
curriculum means each of your experiences will build upon the others as you
develop into a fully proficient and independent family physician. You will
also receive ACLS, ALARM, and NRP training.

During your first year, you will participate in our ‘Nightmares FM’ course,
which is unique to Queen’s and provides residents with a high level of code
and pre-code training. The course helps prepare you for your worst nightmares
while on call. You could be asked to resuscitate a simulated patient in a mock
ER, ward, or office setting. At the start of your first year you will
participate in two full days of Nightmares boot camp, followed by three half-
day follow-up sessions throughout the year to consolidate your skills.

Family medicine-centred education means you are always learning through the
lens of family medicine. You will work in many different clinical settings
with other family physicians and specialist colleagues who are enthusiastic
about family medicine learners.

Over your two years, you will complete a resident project. Options for the
project include: critical review, advocacy project, research project, ethics
project, and IT project — this culminating in either a poster or oral
presentation at our annual Primary Care Research Day. During your first year,
you will also complete a quality-improvement project within your family
medicine practice.

While each training site develops its own individual schedule, all our staff
work diligently to ensure your needs as a learner and as an individual are
met. As a resident, you will receive vacation time each year and educational
leave to attend conferences. Parental leave can easily be arranged, and if you
and your partner are both training at the same site, we will strive to ensure
your schedules are complementary. You will receive access to multiple point-
of-care tools as well as all other university resources. You will also be
entitled to a resident allowance that can be used to purchase learning
resources and subscriptions or to attend conferences. You will have a primary
clinical preceptor, an academic advisor, and a learner advocate who are
available for discussion and assistance and to help guide you in your
competency development.  
  
You will also have the opportunity to complete elective placements during your
residency. We encourage residents to complete electives that complement their
learning or enhance their understanding of an aspect of family medicine.
Residents may also target their electives towards global health, either by
going abroad or by working with a vulnerable population in Canada. You will
work with your academic advisor to determine your personal electives plan.

The Queen’s Department of Family Medicine offers a wide variety of enhanced
skills programs in the following areas: emergency medicine, anesthesia, global
health, women's health, care of the elderly, Indigenous health, enhanced/rural
skills, palliative care, and care of the developmentally disabled. These
programs are based out of our Kingston & 1000 Islands site, however, learners
complete placements in a variety of locations. These enhanced skills programs
are open equally to applications from residents from all sites.

Queen's offers a flexible program in family medicine delivered at four
different sites across South Eastern Ontario (Kingston & 1000 Islands,
Belleville-Quinte, Peterborough-Kawartha, and Queen's-Bowmanville-Oshawa-
Lakeridge). Each site covers the same program objectives but has unique
curricula. Make sure you explore our four program descriptions or [visit our
website](https://familymedicine.queensu.ca/academics). Our postgraduate
program includes a robust global health curriculum, an annual wilderness
retreat, international electives, opportunities to teach and engage in
research, and experiences in rural and remote community hospitals (including
Moose Factory, Ontario).

At Queen's, we respect you as an adult learner. We provide a program with many
diverse opportunities and resources to help you in your development as a
family physician.

Train at Queen's. Work Anywhere!

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27225?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27225