#  Queen’s University - Pediatrics - Kingston

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on February 19, 2025

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Kirk Leifso  

Address Queen's University  
Kingston Health Sciences Centre  
76 Stuart St, Watkins 3-220  
Kingston, Ontario, K7L 2V7  

Work  6135496666 ext 6766

Websites of Interest [ Prospective Residents at Queen's (PGME)
](https://meds.queensu.ca/academics/postgraduate/prospective)  
[ Queen's Department of Pediatrics ](http://pediatricsatqueens.ca/)  
[ Queen's University ](http://www.queensu.ca/ )  
[ Kingston Health Sciences Centre ](https://kingstonhsc.ca/)  
[ City of Kingston ](http://www.cityofkingston.ca/ )  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Kirk Leifso

Title: Program Director

Email: kirk.leifso@queensu.ca

  

Name: Dr. Laura Wheaton

Title: Assistant Program Director

  

Name: Elizabeth King

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: kinge@queensu.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Altus Suite - admissions assessments of non-cognitive skills**

All applicants applying to the Pediatrics program, at Queen's University are
required to complete the Casper Test (Altus Suite), to assist with our
selection process for the 2025 Application Cycle.

 Altus Suite is a standardized, two -part online assessment of non-cognitive
skills, interpersonal characteristics, and personal values and priorities that
we believe are important for successful students and graduates of our program.
Altus Suite will complement the other tools that we use for applicant review
and evaluation. In implementing Altus Suite, we are trying to further enhance
fairness and objectivity in our selection process.

 Altus Suite consists of:

  * **Casper:**  a 60-90 minute online situational judgment test (SJT)

 You will register for Altus Suite for Canadian Postgraduate Medical Education
(**CSP-20201 –  ****Canadian Postgraduate Medical Education)** ,

Access [www.TakeAltus.com](https://takealtus.com/) to create an account and
for more information on **important dates and requirements** , and the Altus
Suite assessments.

The test dates are:

English:

> September 26, 2024, at 8 pm EST (English)

> October 16, 2024, at 8 pm EST (English)

> November 5, 2024, at 8 pm EST (English and French)

COVID-19 vaccination requirements:

Please refer to the 'Restrictions' section of the [Ontario eligibility
criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/) for messaging regarding COVID-19 vaccination requirements.

**EDIIA Institutional Statement:**

The goal of resident selection is to identify trainees likely to succeed both
in training and, once out in practice, in meeting the health care needs of
patients and Canadian society.  We know that having a physician workforce that
reflects the demographics of the patients that they serve improves health care
outcomes.  There are many populations within Canada under-represented in
medicine (UIM) with a paucity of health care practitioners who are Black,
Indigenous, Persons of Colour, 2SLGBTQ+, from lower socioeconomic backgrounds
and/or with disabilities, and other under-represented in medicine (UIM)
groups. Diversity within training programs has also been shown to improve
training environments.  Queen’s University PGME is strongly committed to
diversity and inclusion within its community for these reasons as well as
being part of the solution to address historic and contemporary inequities.

**Equity and diversity**

We welcome diversity among our trainees and seek to foster an environment that
is welcoming to all, regardless of gender identity, race, religion, or sexual
orientation.

We are committed to advancing equitable and inclusive practices.  Please refer
to the [PGME website](https://meds.queensu.ca/academics/postgraduate/faculty-
staff/applicant-selection) for additional information / resources including
[QHS EDIIA Initiatives](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi) and [EDIIA
statements](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi/accessibility-
statements) (Indigenous Land Acknowledgement, Anti-Discrimination Statement,
Inclusion Statement, and Statement on Social Accountability)

**Gaps in Training, Remediation, or Professionalism issues**

Please address any gaps in training, remediation, or professionalism issues in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count.

* * *

# Return of Service

If you have a ROS agreement in another province please ensure you aware of the
commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

There are  between 18-22 residents to approximately 31 full time faculty in
our training program. For an overview of the training program by year, go to:
Queen's Pediatrics Program Overview.



Please note that due to the volume of applications our program receives we are
not able to provide individual feedback to applicants who are not successful
in the match.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Please submit 3 letters of reference (note if more are submitted only the
first 3 will be read). One letter **must** be from a **non-physician,  non-
medical** person who knows you well and can comment on the attributes you
possess that would make you a good pediatrician. If possible, one or more
reference letters from a faculty member from Pediatrics is helpful, but not
required.** ** Letters of reference must not be dated more than 1 year ago.

**Please advise your non-medical referee that they do not need to follow the
categories outlined in the standardized CaRMS referee form, as they are likely
not applicable**.  

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

The personal letter should be no longer than 750 words.

We are looking for an honest, original, and thoughtfully written letter. Do
not be afraid to write in a frank manner about your past experience. _**Your
personal letter should discuss  why you want to pursue training in Pediatrics
and should include examples of the qualities and attributes you will bring to
the Queen's training program and your residency colleagues.**_

We are looking for candidates who demonstrate an intrinsic sense of
responsibility with a high degree of collegiality and who have a strong desire
for a career in pediatrics. Candidates who are successful in moving forward to
the interview will be considered to be well rounded and have demonstrated a
genuine interest in pediatrics through an articulate and insightful personal
letter.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Documents that are not in English must be accompanied by a notarized
translation. Students applying in the last year of medical school will need to
submit their most recent marks/transcripts, and will need to provide proof of
their MD to CPSO prior to the start of residency training.

Optional - will be reviewed

Custom Résumé / CV

Abstract/Publications

Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS)

Note - completion of ACLS is required for registration in postgraduate program
at Queen's - so would be required to be completed prior to starting residency.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All applications are reviewed by Faculty members and pediatrics residents
under the direction of the Residency Program Committee. **Only complete
applications that include a non-medical reference letter will be considered.**  

All applicant files submitted before the deadline will be reviewed by the
selection committee. Each file is evaluated on a number of merits, including
but not limited to academic potential, interest in scholarship, leadership
activities, the strength of reference letters, and the candidate's personal
statement. Our program values a broad range of electives, both in and outside
of pediatrics. The program may contact any elective supervisor listed on your
CaRMs application.  

After a review of documents, selected applicants will be offered a virtual
interview. Due to the number of applications received, not all applicants
meeting the minimum requirements may be offered an interview. The final
ranking process is determined by a combination of file review and interview
scores.



* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 24, 2025
  * January 27, 2025
  * January 31, 2025
  * February 3, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: The time commitment for the interview day
will be approximately 1-2 hours, which includes a virtual interivew through
Zoom and a Q&A session with current residents and the Program Director. 2025
Interview dates are: Mon Jan 20 afternoon; Fri Jan 24 afternoon, Mon Jan 27
afternoon, Fri Jan 31 afternoon, and Mon Feb 3 afternoon. Times EST  
  
There will be 3 groups per interview date. Each group will be approximately
1-hour.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will be offered to those
applicants considered most suitable to our residency program based on the
submitted package. The program will notify all applicants of their status as:
selected to interview, on waitlist for an interview, not selected for an
interview. Applicants on the waitlist will be notified if interview spaces
become available.  
  
An email notification will be sent to CMG applicants.  
  
Interviews will be held in a multiple mini interview (MMI) format. All
applicants will go through a series of stations with faculty and chief
residents, some of which may require role play. These stations will evaluate
the candidates' thought processes, attributes, and communication skills. All
candidates will have 10 minutes to meet (virtually) in a less structured
interview with the program director. The process for CMG and IMG applicants is
the same.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Selection criteria for interviews will include a review of the complete file
looking for academic performance, 3 letters of reference (**which must include
1 from a non-physician**), recent & relevant clinical experience, and a
personal letter.

The **non-medical **reference letter must be from someone who has known you
for more than 1 year, **outside of medicine and a clinical context** , and who
can comment on your attributes that would make you a good pediatrician. **Non-
medical means non-physician** , including any physician even if you did not
work with them in a clinical setting. We are looking for a non-physician
letter.

The personal letter should be no longer than 750 words.

We are looking for an honest, original, and thoughtfully written letter. Do
not be afraid to write in a frank manner about your past experience. _**Your
personal letter should discuss  why you want to pursue training in Pediatrics
and should include examples of the qualities and attributes you will bring to
the Queen's training program and your residency colleagues.**_

We are looking for candidates who demonstrate an intrinsic sense of
responsibility with a high degree of collegiality and who have a strong desire
for a career in pediatrics. Candidates who are successful in moving forward to
the interview will be considered to be well rounded and have demonstrated a
genuine interest in pediatrics through an articulate and insightful personal
letter. Elective experience at Queen's is not necessary. After the interviews,
a composite score from the MMI and file review will help determine the rank
list. The chief residents and the Residency Program Committee contribute to
this process.

## Program goals

The Queen's University Pediatric Training Program produces highly skilled and
knowledgeable pediatric physicians capable of providing excellent care for
children in any setting. The program recognizes the need for both general
pediatricians and pediatric subspecialists and is designed to provide an
excelleng clinical training for both these major career paths. The program
achieves this objective with abundant practical clinical experiences, formal
educational sessions, graded responsibility in the acquisition of clinical
decision making and leadership skills, and curricular flexibility in the final
year of training.

By the end of their training, the residents will have developed the skills and
confidence needed to practice general pediatrics expertly in any sized
community. Those who successfully complete the pediatric residency program at
Queen's will not only have the medical expertise needed, but also the skills
required to function as a consultant pediatrician in a variety of settings,
including community hospitals where they must balance a busy outpatient
clinical load, consultations in emergency departments, attendance at
deliveries and neonatal resuscitations, and care of admitted inpatients,
including neonates in special care nurseries.

## Selection process goals

We are looking for candidates who show evidence of being dedicated team
players with a desire for a career in pediatrics. We strive to identify
candidates who are well-rounded, have a growth mindset, are curious and take
ownership of their learning. Candidates will have demonstrated a genuine
interest in pediatrics through an articulate and insightful personal letter.
Elective experience at Queen's is not necessary. After the interviews, a
composite score from the MMI and file review will help determine the rank
list. The chief residents and the Residency Program Committee contribute to
this process.

## File review process

Review team composition : Files are reviewed by members of the Department of
Pediatrics.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Used to provide supporting evidence for other file components during the file review   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We are looking for applicants who have completed a broad range of electives in Pediatrics   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Used to provide supporting evidence for other components of the file review, ie leadership   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Demonstrated skills with evidence of research, advocacy, quality improvement, etc   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Reviewed for unexplained gaps in training or other concerns with the applicant’s academic training   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  We are looking for honest and thoughtfully written letters   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  We are looking for reference letters that demonstrate specific evidence of personal attributes   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Demonstrates interest and experience with participation in a research project   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Reviewed for unexplained gaps in training or other concerns with the applicant’s academic ability   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have completed a broad range
of electives including in our discipline. We do not require applicants to have
done onsite electives. We understand that some applicants choose to pursue a
career in Pediatrics late in clerkship; thus, interest in Pediatrics should be
demonstrated by your choice of referees and the content of your Personal
Letter irrespective of electives completed.

** We understand that electives may have been difficult to arrange due to
Covid-19 and university restrictions.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due
to weather, technology failure or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Works well with others in a constructive manner   
Collegiality |  Not specifically evaluated but interactions with faculty, residents and staff may be used   
Communication skills |  Thoughtfully and clearly expresses ideas. Minimal use of jargon. Easily adjusts style & tone.   
Health advocacy |  May be evaluated to support candidates skills or experience   
Interest in the discipline |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrates specific knowledge of our program   
Leadership skills |  May be discussed within specific stations   
Professionalism |  Professional behavior is expected throughout the interview   
Scholarly activities |  May be evaluated to support candidates collaborative and leadership skills   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

** We are a smaller center with no subspecialty training programs. As such,
residents are first in line for learning experiences, working directly, often
one-on-one, with the faculty. There are subspecialty residents or fellows,
with the exception of clinical fellows in the NICU.

 ** The program is rewarding for self-reflective and motivated learners who
are proactive in identifying their own learning goals, excel in seeking out
feedback and learning opportunities, are great team players, and have a sense
of responsibility to their patients and colleagues. Residents always note the
excellent hands-on experiences with early, supported, responsibility while on-
call.

 ** Queen's is an innovator in competency-based medical education. As early
adopters having fully moved to competency-based assessment and progression in
2017, we have developed innovative tools for assessing CanMEDS competencies
and facilitate competency-based assessment and training. See the Important
Information section for details on Queen’s and competency-based medical
education.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The pediatric residency training progresses over 4 years. The program length
of training does not exceed the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Canada standard.

The Department of Pediatrics at Queen's includes academic general
pediatricians, community consultant pediatricians, and academic
subspecialists. Particular strengths include general pediatrics, behavioural
and developmental pediatrics, neonatology, and genetics. Our philosophy is
geared towards providing excellent foundational training in pediatric medicine
for those planning a career in general pediatrics, whether in private, mixed,
or academic practice, or for those planning to pursue subspecialty training
where having a strong clinical base in general pediatrics is a must.

The relatively small size of the program allows for a close and supportive
working relationship among our trainees and faculty. Each resident is assured
an exposure to a wide diversity and optimal number of patients relative to our
program's size. Excellent hands-on and broad ranging clinical opportunities at
Queen's are enhanced by subspecialty and core rotations at the Children’s
Hospital of Eastern Ontario, in Ottawa, and by community neonatal and
consulting pediatrics rotations at Lakeridge Health, in Oshawa.

Our program is committed to providing each trainee with experiences
individualized to his/her personal career goals. Residents, by the end of
their training, will have developed the confidence and skills needed to
expertly practice general pediatrics in any sized community.



**Transition to Residency and Foundations of Discipline (PGY-1):**

The first stage of residency training will give the trainee a solid base in
general pediatrics. By the end of the Foundations of Discipline stage, the
resident will be skilled in the diagnosis and initial management of less-
complex presentations.

**Rotation/Area** | **Number of Weeks  ****(scheduled in 2- and 4-week blocks)**  
---|---  
Outpatient Pediatrics (ambulatory pediatrics including general pediatrics clinics, minor emergency, and pediatric subspecialty clinics) |   16 weeks  
Inpatient Pediatrics |   8 weeks  
NICU |    4 weeks (level 2 NICU - Lakeridge Health in Oshawa)   6 weeks (level 3 NICU)  
Hematology/Oncology |   4 weeks (2nd half of academic year)  
Pediatric Anesthesia |   2 weeks  
Research / Quality Improvement and Patient Safety |   2 weeks  
Pediatric Emergency Medicine (CHEO-Ottawa) |   4 weeks  
  






**Core of Discipline (PGY-2 and PGY-3):**

Now that the resident has acquired foundational knowledge of the field of
general pediatrics, the Core of Discipline stage is designed to provide a
deeper exposure to subspecialty areas of pediatrics and to coach the resident
into a leadership role in the care of each patient. As this stage progresses,
the resident transitions into a senior supervisory role, responsible for the
management of ward and/or ambulatory patients, including those with complex
problems. The resident also takes on a supervisory role over more junior
trainees. In the latter half of this stage, the resident assumes supervisory
roles on the in-patient acute pediatric medicine service and neonatal
intensive care unit. This stage encourages the development of a sense of
critical judgment and increasing self-confidence.

**Rotation/Area**   |  **Number of Weeks**  (scheduled in 4-week blocks, except subspecialty rotations which may be contiguous and night float and research)  
---|---  
 NICU |   8 weeks  
 Inpatient Pediatrics |   12 weeks  
 PICU (CHEO-Ottawa) |   8 weeks  
 Infectious Disease (with Allergy) |   8 weeks  
 Cardiology / Respirology |   8 weeks   
 Pediatric Surgery (General, Orthopedics,  Otolaryngology, Ophthalmology) |   4 weeks  
 Neurology |   4 weeks  
 Genetics |   4 weeks  
 Developmental Pediatrics |   4 weeks  
 General Pediatrics |   4 weeks  
 Subspecialty (CHEO- Ottawa): Nephrology, Rheumatology |   8 weeks (4 weeks each)  
 Child Psychiatry |    4 weeks  
 Endocrinology / Gastroenterology |   8 weeks  
 Hematology/Oncology |   4 weeks (first half of 3rd academic year)  
 Community Pediatrics  |   4 weeks  
 Electives  |   8 weeks in PGY2 and 4 weeks in PGY3   
 Research  |   2 weeks in PGY2 and 2 weeks in PGY3  
 Night Float |  2 x 2 weeks in PGY3  
  




**Transition to Practice (PGY-4 equivalent):**

The Transition to Practice stage is designed for the refinement of the
knowledge, skills, and attitudes learned in the preceding stages. The primary
clinical experience of the Transition to Practice stage is ambulatory
pediatrics. Residents identify their own learning needs and fill in knowledge
gaps with a variety of experiences including ambulatory and in-patient blocks,
and a longitudinal "teaching" consulting clinic. The residents also assume a
junior attending supervisory role in our pediatric urgent care clinic and the
inpatient acute medicine ward.



**Rotation/Area** | **Number of Weeks  ****(scheduled in 4 week blocks)**  
---|---  
Ambulatory Pediatrics (combination of ambulatory general pediatrics, subspecialty pediatrics, minor emergency, senior resident consulting clinic) |   32 weeks  
Junior Attending (inpatients) |   4 weeks  
Community Pediatrics (Lakeridge Health - Oshawa)   |   4 weeks  
Electives |   8 weeks  
Night float |  2 x 2 weeks  
  
**Education and Assessments:**

The Academic Half-Day rotates through a 2-year core curriculum that includes
teaching in general and subspecialty pediatrics. Mock oral examinations
(observed History/Physical Examination) are held twice per year for all
residents. In addition, formative OSCE examinations are held twice a year, as
preparation/practice for the Royal College exam in pediatrics; these are part
of national OSCE collaboration between all other pediatric programs. This
program takes advantage of the Clinical Education Centre and the Standardized
Patient Program at Queen's University. Residents write the American Board of
Pediatrics in-training examination every July, as well as biannual MCQ/SAQ
Canadian In-Training practice exams.

**Scholarly Work:**

Each resident is expected to complete a scholarly project. A research mentor
is available to each resident to assist in this process. Training in research
methodology is provided in first year. All residents are expected to present
at the annual Department of Pediatrics Research Day, held as a forum for the
presentation and discussion of resident research projects and other basic
science or clinical projects affiliated with the Department of Pediatrics.
Presentation are made to resident and faculty colleagues, plus an expert panel
consisting of a moderator, prominent in research and a statistician or
epidemiologist to critique the project methodology, statistical analysis,
tabulation of results and appropriateness of the conclusions. Ongoing work
such as literature reviews or interim results can be presented by residents
who have not completed their projects. A prize is awarded to the resident with
the best presentation.

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

\- Kingston Health Sciences Centre including Kingston General Hospital (KGH)
and Hotel Dieu Hospital (HDH) Site

\- Lakeridge Health, Oshawa

\- Quinte Healthcare, Belleville

\- Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO), Ottawa

* * *

# Additional Information

Benefits: Accommodation for mandatory rotations at CHEO, Community Pediatric
sites (Oshawa and Belleville), Moose Factory

PALS & NRP courses provided in PGY1 year with recertification at the beginning
of PGY3 year.

Education and Conference leave funding is available to residents every year.

There is an annual resident retreat

Canadian Pediatric Society, and American Academy of Pediatrics
memberships/registration provided

Access to electronic journals, electronic textbooks, Medline, through Queen's
Health Sciences Library.

Residents are matched with an Academic Advisor and meet at least 4 times per
year. The Academic Advisor reviews the residents' performance, advocates for
the resident in all ways and offers career counseling.  

Elective blocks are available. There are 5 blocks that can be taken through
the PGY2 through PGY4 years, with a maximum of 2 in any given year. Electives
may be undertaken at interprovincial and international sites.

There are three community-based rotations:

   \- 4 weeks of community level 2 NICU at Lakeridge Health in Oshawa during
the Foundations stage (PGY1)

   \- 4 weeks of community pediatrics at Quinte Healthcare in Belleville
during the Core stage (PGY2)

   \- 4 weeks of community pediatrics at Lakeridge Health in Oshawa during the
Transition to Practice stage (PGY4)

* * *

# FAQ

RE: Non-medical reference letter.

Q: Who can write it?

A: This **must** be written by a **non-physician** from a **non-clinical, non-
medical setting**. The better someone knows you, the better the letter they
will write. In the past, candidates have used work colleagues and supervisors,
teachers, religious leaders, camp directors, and volunteer supervisors.
Letters from from family members will not be considered. Many people inquire
whether this can be written by a physician they know but in a non-clinical
setting. The answer is no, it must be written by a non-physician.

Q: Why are you requesting this?

A: In an effort to get more information about the candidate their qualities
outside of clinical medicine.

Q: I don't have a non-medical letter. Will you still consider my file?

A: No. Only complete files will be considered for an interview. If you do not
have a non-medical reference letter, your file is not complete and will not
undergo file review.



RE: Interviews

Q: How many candidates do you interview?

A: Typically 10-15 candidates for each position

Q: Can I change my interview date?

A: There is an increasing interest in Pediatrics and we turn down qualified
applicants for interviews each year. We will do our best to accommodate
changes; however, as there are only certain number of slots per day to
facilitate the interview process, changes can be quite difficult and are
generally unlikely.



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27056?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27056