#  University of Saskatchewan - Public Health and Preventive Medicine -
Saskatoon

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on August 30, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Cory Neudorf  

Address Community Health and Epidemiology  
Health Sciences Bldg., Ewing #3230  
104 Clinic Place  
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, S7N 5E5  

Work  306-966-8248

Work  306-966-8752

Websites of Interest [ U of S PHPM Residency website
](https://medicine.usask.ca/department/schools-
divisions/che.php#PHPMPostgraduateMDProgram)  
[ Explore the PHPM program at the U of S
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FCqvlzSKVEQ&list=PLh39DxXdNODVX3U0xQZhFWNHCpeVthZxT&index=10)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Amanda Willms

Title: Program Administrator

Email: amanda.willms@usask.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Applicants are responsible for reviewing the [University of Saskatchewan
Policies for the R-1 Match](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/saskatchewan/) to determine if they meet all
requirements and eligibility criteria. Failure to meet or provide proof of any
of the stated requirements or documents may result in an applicant’s file not
being reviewed or ranked.

**Casper Test**  
All applicants must complete the Casper test. Please refer to the Examinations
section for more information.

**Licensing  
** Matched applicants must be eligible for an educational register license
with the [College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Registration___Licensure/web/Applicants/Licensure/Registration_and_Licensure_Landing.aspx?hkey=75b022f8-df64-4f34-8e2a-a09bea881787)
(CPSS) for a July 1st start date and must maintain eligibility for an
educational register license throughout their entire training program. Matched
applicants who are graduating in the spring will need to provide a copy of
their medical degree/diploma to the PGME office and the College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Saskatchewan (CPSS) prior to the start of residency training.
Any delays in providing all required documentation to CPSS may result in the
following:

  * delay in issuance of an educational register license and a delay in start of postgraduate training beyond July 1st
  * release from CaRMS match contract

**Applicants completing medical education at the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)**  are
required to submit proof of English language proficiency before the rank order
deadline to demonstrate they meet CPSS requirements. More information is
available under Supporting Documentation-Language Proficiency.

**NOTE:**  Applicants who are considering a delay to their convocation date
must be aware that a medical degree cannot be issued to a student until they
have convocated. CPSS bylaws require that new residents must have received
their medical degree prior to the commencement of residency training. Choosing
to delay convocation will affect a matched applicant’s ability to commence
their residency training program in Saskatchewan on July 1. Please refer to
the [U of S CaRMS Deferral Policy](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/carms-
deferral-of-training-start-date---match-violation-release-from-
match.php#relatedForms) for additional information.

**Credentialing**  
In order to commence and continue in Postgraduate Medical Education training
programs, matched applicants must be eligible for and maintain privileges
within the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) as determined by their
credentialing process. The Saskatchewan Health Authority requires successful
applicants to submit immunization records and a current criminal record check
as part of their pre-resident application for appointment. Applicants with
criminal records will be considered on a case by case basis by the College of
Medicine in consultation with the Health Authority.

Any delays in providing all required documentation to the Saskatchewan Health
Authority may result in a delay in the start of postgraduate training beyond
July 1st.

**Resident Boot Camp  
** All matched applicants must attend a mandatory three-day Resident Boot Camp
scheduled for late June. The purpose of the Boot Camp is to provide additional
support to trainees as they transition to residency by introducing and
consolidating baseline skills and knowledge needed to flourish during their
residency years. The program will include interactive case-based and hands-on
practice sessions. Stipends will be provided to trainees.

Attendance is required and absences are only permitted in exceptional
circumstances, with prior approval of PGME.

**Advanced Cardiac Life Support  
** Matched applicants are required to provide proof of ACLS certification
(current as of July 1, 2025) to the PGME office prior to starting their
training program. The ACLS course must be endorsed by the Heart and Stroke
Foundation of Canada and/or the American Heart Association. ACLS training that
is not certified by these two organizations and/or is completed entirely
through an online course will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for
all costs associated with obtaining ACLS certification.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Applications accepted in English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

All applicants must be Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents at the time of
application and must submit a notarized/certified photocopy of one of the
accepted citizenship documents.

Proof of citizenship must be current at the time of application and expired
documents will not be accepted.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum of 7.0 in each of the components

**Language assessment document accepted:**

  1. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on paper at a test venue
  2. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on a computer at a test venue
  3. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine at Home

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum grade of B

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of 9 in all sections

Applicants may be required to provide proof of proficiency in the English
language to meet licensing requirements of the [College of Physicians and
Surgeons (CPSS) of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Licensure/Requirements_Content/English_Language_Proficiency.aspx).

Applicants who graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States,
where English is the language of instruction **are not**  required to submit
proof of English language proficiency.

**Canadian applicants with medical education from the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)  are required
**to meet the English language proficiency requirements of the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan and must complete one of the language
exams listed above.

Applicants who are required to complete a language exam must submit a valid
test score in their CaRMS application **by the deadline for submission and
assignment of applications and documents.** Applicants who do not provide
acceptable proof of language proficiency, if required, will not be ranked.

Applicants must meet all of the criteria in one of the IELTS, OET or CELPIP
examinations. Please note that results from examinations cannot be combined,
unless the testing institution offers a sub-test.  
NOTE: Only OET offers sub-tests. CPSS will accept sub-tests obtained within
the same 24-month period as the original OET exam was sat.

Please direct any questions about language requirements to
[della.toews@usask.ca](mailto:della.toews@usask.ca). Applicants should not
contact CPSS directly about their eligibility for licensure.

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference, written by a physician, are required.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1500

  

The personal letter is intended to serve as an introduction to the document
reveiwers - use it to describe who you are, how you arrived at where you are
today and your aspirations for the future. It must be written in narrative
format and should be no more than 3 double-spaced pages in length. You can
find additional information about personal letters on the CaRMS website.

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

There will be a review of all applicants by a sub-committee of the Residency
Program Committee.

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: TBD  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: There will be a panel interview of
shortlisted candidates.  
  
All interviews will be virtual for the 2025 R-1 match.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Applicants should demonstrate knowledge of what range of professional work the
specialty involves, ideally acquired in an elective in the specialty.

The selection is based generally on the overall quality of the candidate,
his/her likelihood of being able to contribute to the specialty in the future,
and how well the specialty fits with the career plans of the candidate.

## Program goals

To provide a diverse training environment conducive to train specialists in
Public Health and Preventive Medicine that are prepared to work in any of the
diverse settings and roles available to our specialty, in urban, rural and
remote public health. Public Health and Preventive Medicine is the medical
specialty primarily concerned with the health of populations. The discipline's
focus is disease and injury prevention and control, which is achieved through
health protection and health promotion activities. A Public Health and
Preventive Medicine specialist monitors and assesses the health needs of a
population and develops, implements, and evaluates strategies for improving
health and well-being through interdisciplinary and inter-sectoral
partnerships. Building on foundational competencies in clinical medicine and
the determinants of health, the Public Health and Preventive Medicine
specialist demonstrates competencies in public health sciences, including but
not limited to epidemiology, biostatistics, and surveillance, planning,
implementation and evaluation of programs and policies, leadership,
collaboration, advocacy, and communication. These competencies are applied to
a broad range of acute and chronic health issues affecting a population,
including those that may be related to environmental exposures.

## Selection process goals

_Applicants providing  **evidence of academic potential**_** ** in _the CaRMS
application file will be considered first, especially in areas relating to
public health and preventive medicine. This includes academic achievement in
the form of  **academic standing or awards** , **scholarship**  (e.g.
research, publications, innovation), **evidence of leadership capacity and
experience**  (e.g. committee memberships), and/or **teaching excellence.**_

Other skills and attributes of a successful applicant include:

\- demonstrated ability to interact appropriately with peers, community groups
and partners

\- recent clinical experience

\- demonstrated interest in prevention, health promotion, and population
health approaches

\- high level of proficiency in the English laguage, both spoken and written

\- demonstrated leadership potential

## File review process

Review team composition : The selection committee includes the program
director, a resident representative, and 2 to 3 members of the Residency
Program Committee (faculty).

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
Under 10 in the first round, and between 150-200 if a second round is required

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  
75 - 100% in the first round, and 5% if a second round is required

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We evaluate the content, including volunteer activities, interests, related to public health   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Evaluations of all electives with emphasis on those related to public health   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  All applicants must complete a Casper exam to be eligible for consideration   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering and memberships on community groups and agencies relating to public health   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Memberships and roles on committees, boards and groups pertaining to social justice, and prevention   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstrated interpersonal skills and teamwork   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in the discipline and location   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interactions with colleagues and groups   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in evidence informed practice and application of research and data   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance especially in population health and epidemiology   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work in teams in various capacities and roles depending on need   
Collegiality |  Able to work well with peers and partners individually and in groups   
Communication skills |  Excellent spoken and written English language skills   
Health advocacy |  Evidence of using health advocacy skills in a variety of settings   
Interest in the discipline |  Knowledge of the various career paths and skills needed to do well in this discipline   
Interest in the program |  Evidence of electives and volunteer activities, or participation in interest groups in Public Health   
Leadership skills |  Evidence of using leadership abilities and styles in various settings   
Professionalism |  Ability to represent their perspective in a professional and respectful manner   
Scholarly activities |  Demonstrated interest in continuous learning and evidence informed practice   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The strength of the program will be in helping residents learn how to function
effectively as specialists in Public Health and Preventive Medicine within an
integrated regionalized healthcare system, able to work in a public health
department, and with other parts of the healthcare system.

The variety of public health experiences available in rural, northern and
urban settings as well as the provincial level will provide a well balanced
learning environment. The small size of the program will also ensure a greater
ability to exercise responsibility through the program and to adapt training
to their career goals.

As well as being a good learning environment for educating public health
"generalists", there are the academic resources to support other career goals
in the specialty, whether that includes academic medicine, medical
epidemiology, administrative medicine or a combination of practice and public
health work.

The University of Saskatchewan has a unique combination of academic units
related to health issues, including a veterinary college, agriculture college,
School of Public Health, School of the Environment, School of Public Policy,
and a world class vaccine development centre [Vaccine and Infectious Disease
Organization].

Being embedded in a relatively small healthcare system serving just over 1
million people, this program will provide residents with the opportunity to
get to know first-hand the important components of the public health system.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The curriculum is designed to meet Royal College requirements for the
specialty, with the usual length of training after medical school of 5 years
of postgraduate medical education tailored to support the candidate's career
goals, whether those are related to a role in the public health system, as a
medical epidemiologist, in clinical preventive medicine, health
administration, an academic setting or in administrative medicine.

As Public Health and Preventive Medicine programs across the country will be
transitioning to a Competence By Design model as of July 2025, changes to the
current curriculum are underway to adapt to this model. As decisions are made,
details about our curriculum by stage of training will be posted on our
website.

### PGY1 and 2

The first year will consist of a Transition to Discipline stage in the first
two months followed by a Foundations stage comprised of a combination of
academic training and clinical experiences. The clinical experiences focus on
topics, settings and populations of special relevance to public health and
preventive medicine including rotations in primary care, social pediatrics,
emergency medicine, mental health and addictions, and clinical areas within
public health such as TB, STBBI, and travel medicine. More emphasis is placed
on community based and ambulatory clinical experiences rather than hospital-
based care. The academic training consists of course work to meet the learning
objectives related to the Royal College requirements for the specialty. These
are most commonly fulfilled by the course work in a Master of Public Health
degree including a practicum placement within a public health setting in the
Saskatchewan Health Authority. A Master's degree in Epidemiology or in
Community and Population Health Sciences are also possible.  



### PGY3 and 4

This is the Core of Discipline stage of training and will include core
placements in public health settings such as Public Health Intelligence,
Communicable Disease Control/Immunization,  Environmental Public Health and
Health Promotion and Health Equity in addition to experiences in rural
settings, urban settings, Indigenous public health, and the Provincial
Ministry of Health.

### PGY5

The final year of training includes elective time and a Transition to Practice
experience where residents learn to function at a more independent level
within a Public Health Leadership experience where the resident co-manages a
public health program area in a dyad role with an administrative manager in
Regina or Saskatoon. The elective time is meant to allow residents  time to
tailor their training to their career objectives or to do further academic
work.

* * *

# Training Sites

**University of Saskatchewan,**

[**Department of Community Health and
Epidemiology**](http://www.medicine.usask.ca/che/index.html "Department of
Community Health and Epidemiology")  
Provides content expertise in the area of epidemiology and epidemiologic
methods during the program. It also houses a Master's degree program in MCPHS
[Community and Population Health Sciences], which is one option for the
academic content of the residency program. Staff in the department have a
particular focus on qualitative data as well as quantitative methods.

**University of Saskatchewan,**

[**School of Public Health**](http://www.usask.ca/sph/ "School of Public
Health")

Courses related to the MPH degree housed in the School of Public Health are an
important option for acquiring the academic content related to the residency
program. Examples include epidemiologic methods, health promotion, program
evaluation.  Detailed course descriptions are available on the School of
Public Health website.

It is anticipated this will be the most common academic background.

**Population and Public Health, Saskatoon Area, Saskatchewan Health
Authority**

This training site will provide an introductory orientation to regional public
health, prior to the start of academic course work. It is the main site for
the rotations in Health Intelligence, Environmental Health, Communicable
Disease Control and Immunization, and Health Promotion and Health Equity. It
can also be the site for a senior urban public health 6 month placement in the
R5 year.

It is the largest regional public health department in the province with close
links to the academic centres in Saskatoon.  Staff within this public health
unit work in the full range of local public health roles including health
protection, disease prevention, population health promotion, and surveillance.
As is typical of Saskatchewan, the largest single staff component consists of
public health nurses who work largely in the areas of well child care
including immunizations.

The public health department is one administrative unit of the regional health
authority, and many services are linked to other parts of the health region,
such as maternal and child services, home care, primary care, and addictions
services.

The learning opportunities are broad including many areas of content
expertise, advocacy, public communications, developing management skills and
participating in strategic planning.

A particular strength of the department is the Public Health Department, a
small but active epidemiology/surveillance unit.

**[Public and Population Health Services, Regina
](http://www.saskatoonhealthregion.ca/your_health/ps_public_health_pho_about.htm
"Public Health Observatory, Saskatoon Health Region")Area, Saskatchewan Health
Authority**

This is a large urban public health department in Regina. In relevant years,
it can be the site for rotations in Communicable Disease Control/
Immunization, Environmental Health and a senior 6 month urban public health
placement in the R5 year.

It provides a full range of local public health services covering the
functions of health protection [communicable disease control, environmental
health], disease prevention, health promotion and health surveillance.  The
largest single staff component is that of public health nurses, with much of
their work concentrated on well child care and immunizations.  It is one
administrative unit of the regional health authority, with links to many other
parts of the health region.

The learning opportunities are broad, including many areas of content
expertise, advocacy, public communications, developing management skills and
participating in strategic planning.

Being in the capital city means links to the provincial government, including
the Ministry of Health and the Saskatchewan Disease Control Laboratory are
close.

**[Public and Population Health Services, Regina
](http://www.rqhealth.ca/programs/comm_hlth_services/pubhealth/pubhealth.shtml
" Public and Population Health Services, Regina Qu'Appelle Health
Region")Area, Saskatchewan Health Authority**

This is a large urban public health department in Regina. In relevant years,
it can be the site for a senior 6 month urban public health placement in the
R5 year.

It provides a full range of local public health services covering the
functions of health protection [communicable disease control, environmental
health], disease prevention, health promotion and health surveillance.  The
largest single staff component is that of public health nurses, with much of
their work concentrated on well child care and immunizations.  It is one
administrative unit of the regional health authority, with links to many other
parts of the health region.

The learning opportunities are broad, including many areas of content
expertise, advocacy, public communications, developing management skills and
participating in strategic planning.

Being in the capital city means links to the provincial government, including
the Ministry of Health and the Saskatchewan Disease Control Laboratory are
close.

**[Population Health Unit, La Ronge](http://www.mcrrha.sk.ca/ "Population
Health Unit, Mamawetan Churchill River Health Authority, La Ronge")**

The Population Health Unit provides centralized public health expertise for
the 3 northern health regions and their largely aboriginal population spread
over a large territory.

The range of services provided include health protection [environmental
health, communicable disease control], disease prevention and health
promotion.  Working with the northern population, cultural issues are
important and the impact of the social determinants of health are dominant.

The learning opportunities are broad, including many areas of content
expertise, advocacy, public communications, developing management skills and
participating in strategic planning.  The environmental issues and
communicable disease challenges are often unique compared with those in the
southern parts of the province.

A placement in either a northern or rural health region is mandatory, usually
as a 3 month placement in the R4 year.

**Population Health Branch, Ministry of Health**

This site is the public health component of the Ministry of Health.  The
placement here, usually 3 months in the R4 year, will provide an experience of
the provincial role of a specialist in Public Health and Preventive Medicine,
and an opportunity to learn about the role of a provincial government and its
processes.

Population Health Branch includes staff who focus on environmental health,
health promotion, communicable disease control and epidemiology. The typical
functions of the provincial level branch include development of policies,
standards and legislation, as well a coordination of regional health
authorities, interacting with other branches of government, and liaison with
other provincial and territorial jurisdictions. There will of course be the
opportunity to learn about the provincial role in directing the health system
as a whole by specifying system priorities, engaging in strategic planning,
and effective  management through the budget cycle.

[**Saskatchewan Health Agency of
Canada**](http://www.hqc.sk.ca/portal.jsp?JTUB2LP01tO/a0jFSx/i3TBIzBf0QfLQkUwK4QBZaJs5RT805SdC1YOpOAatQaSakx8VmhwEmSQ=
"Saskatchewan Health Quality Council")

While there are no mandatory placements at the Public Health Agency of Canada,
there are numerous opportunities for elective placements at PHAC detailed in a
catalogue which can provide learning opportunities relevant for residents.
Electives at PHAC will also provide a view of the role of the federal public
health agency, of federal government processes and of the roles of other
federal ministries.

[**Public Health Agency of Canada**](http://www.phac-aspc.gc.ca/index-eng.php
"Public Health Agency of Canada")

While there are no mandatory placements at the Public Health Agency of Canada,
there are numerous opportunities for elective placements at PHAC detailed in a
catalogue which can provide learning opportunities relevant for residents.
Electives at PHAC will also provide a view of the role of the federal public
health agency, of federal government processes and of the roles of other
federal ministries.

**Housing for Distributed Rotations**

Extensive support is available for rotations completed at other sites in the
province. The exact nature of this support varies with location and program.
The communities involved, individual programs, the College of Medicine, and
the Ministry of Health work collaboratively to ensure residents are not
financially disadvantaged by the need to relocate. Temporary housing is
available at no expense to residents who leave their home site to complete
short term mandatory rotations at distributed sites in Saskatchewan. Please
review the [PGME Housing Guidelines](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/pgme-
housing-guidelines-pgme-housing-application-for-short-term-mandatory-
rotation.php#relatedForms) for more detailed information.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27425?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27425