#  University of British Columbia - Internal Medicine - Fraser

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 20, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Tristen Gilchrist  

Address Dept of Medicine  
, British Columbia  

Websites of Interest

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: Site Director

Name: Dr. Birinder Mangat

Title: Assistant Program Director, Fraser

Email: birinder.mangat@ubc.ca

  

General Information: For questions not covered on CaRMS site, email:

Name: Tara Morris

Title: Senior Program Assistant

Email: FraserIM.PGME@ubc.ca

  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required and should be written by attending
physicians.  Preferably at least one letter should be from an internist. No
reference letters will be accepted after November 29, 2024 (9AM PST). Please
do not submit more than three reference letters - any additional letters will
not be reviewed.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

_This should be a maximum of 500 words and should include reasons for applying
to our program, information about yourself we may not find elsewhere. Also
please include what strengths you would bring to our program.   There are no
specific formatting criteria for the personal letter. _



Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.

If your MSPR is in a language other than English or French, you are required
to have the [document translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Custom Résumé / CV

We require an updated CV from each applicant

Optional - will be reviewed

Self-identification questionnaire

UBC is committed to fostering a collegial culture grounded in diversity and
inclusiveness. The university encourages applications from Indigenous persons,
persons with a disability, racialized persons, women, persons of a minority
sexual orientation and/or gender identity, and all candidates who would
contribute to the diversity of our community.

 We are in the data collection phase currently.  Candidates are not required
to submit the CaRMS Self-identification questionnaire, but for those that do
feel comfortable doing so, the information received would only be used for
program selection improvement in future years. It will not be used for
selection purposes this year. Any self-identification questionnaires received
will NOT be reviewed as part of our file review process or used as an aid for
file reviewers for the 2025 match.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All applications are reviewed electronically by two members of the selection
committee. Based on a developed criteria & formula a shortlist is created and
applicants are then invited to an interview. All applicants will receive
notification via email indicating whether or not they are being invited to
interview. Please note that due to time constraints residents will not receive
notification of their interview status until **January 10, 2025**. This is
standard across Canada for Internal Medicine.

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: Interview dates will be throughout the
interview period.  
  

Notification/Invitation: January 10, 2025

Details regarding the interview process: Interview process will be updated
closer to the date.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Initial screening involves review of each applicant file by two independent
reviewers. Following the file review, applicant files are scored and ranked.
Selected individuals are contacted via email on January 10, 2025 and invited
to interview with members of the Selection Committee. The final ranking score
will be based on file review and interview. Applicants not invited to
interview will also be advised via email on January 10, 2025. Criteria for
shortlisting includes: Academic record, Personal letter, Reference letters.

## Program goals

The primary mission of the UBC Internal Medicine Residency Program is to train
residents to attain the knowledge, skills and attitudes to become excellent
general internists who are committed to upholding the highest ethical and
professional standards of medicine. Residents learn to provide compassionate,
respectful, patient-centered and evidence-based care in a variety of academic
and community settings. The primary instructional strategy is experiential
learning, which occurs through the residents' graduated patient care
responsibilities.

Graduates are prepared to enter the practice of general internal medicine or
to pursue fellowship training, either in general internal medicine or the
subspecialties of internal medicine.

## Selection process goals

Identify applicants with demonstrated ability to interact appropriately with
patients and colleagues alike.

Identify applicants interested in internal medicine, and those who will
develop into exceptional internal medicine physicians.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated attributes highlighted in the
CanMEDS 2015 goals.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability and enthusiasm to learn and
are able to adapt to the various demands of an internal medicine residency
training program.

## File review process

Review team composition : Made up of faculty members, senior residents and
subspecialty fellows.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
UBC Fraser stream is a new program. This is its second year in CaRMS.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  
UBC Fraser stream is a new program. This is its second year in CaRMS.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We take a holistic view of the entire application.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We take a holistic view of the entire application.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We take a holistic view of the entire application.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  We take a holistic view of the entire application.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  We take a holistic view of the entire application.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  We take a holistic view of the entire application.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  We take a holistic view of the entire application.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We take a holistic view of the entire application.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We take a holistic view of the entire application.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We take a holistic view of the entire interview.   
Collegiality |  We take a holistic view of the entire interview.   
Communication skills |  We take a holistic view of the entire interview.   
Health advocacy |  We take a holistic view of the entire interview.   
Interest in the discipline |  We take a holistic view of the entire interview.   
Interest in the program |  We take a holistic view of the entire interview.   
Leadership skills |  We take a holistic view of the entire interview.   
Professionalism |  We take a holistic view of the entire interview.   
Scholarly activities |  We take a holistic view of the entire interview.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Distinctive Features

Strengths of the program include the wide variety of clinical settings in
Fraser Health, high quality ambulatory experiences, one day of longitudinal
clinic a month, number of skilled and dedicated clinical teachers, protected
AHD time, 2-week Boot Camp for incoming PGY1s. Our distributed sites
throughout Fraser Health allow residents to see and participate in community
medicine, which has a very diverse population.

The program also has other numerous features:

1) OSCEs

2) Associate Membership to the American College of Physicians

3) Resident Research Day in PGY3

4) Annual Resident Retreat

5) Annual Welcome Event and numerous other social events

6) Simulation/Ultrasound Curriculum

7) One week of annual conference leave with funding available

8) Resident wellness initiatives and events

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The residency program provides four years of comprehensive training in
Internal Medicine.

Competency-by-Design (CBD) principles are embedded within the curriculum
structure, with the curriculum organized in accordance with the 4 phases of
competency development described by the Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Canada: Transition-to-Discipline, Foundations, Core, and
Transition to Practice. Notable enhancements to the traditional PGY 1 – 4
structure are as follows.

First, residents will have the opportunity to complete a once-monthly
longitudinal clinic with a single preceptor, each year for the first three
years; this will provide residents the opportunity to follow some patients
longitudinally and engage with a dedicated mentor in each for their first 3
years.

Secondly, PGY 1 rotations are scheduled to attain Transition-to-Discipline and
Foundations Competencies consecutively. Uniquely, Early Core Senior rotations
have been created for the first 6 months of PGY 2, and Advanced Core Senior
rotations have been created for the remaining 18 months of PGY 2 and 3.

Transition-to-Practice competencies are completed in PGY 4. This structure
ensures that residents are promoted based on demonstrated competency, and
clinical responsibility is increased in an intentional and gradated fashion.

The competitive stream positions are eligible for subspecialty training in any
subspecialty. It also comes with a mandatory three-year return of service
contract in British Columbia, which can be deferred until after subspecialty
training ends. This is applicable for both CMGs and IMGs applying for this
position. RoS for the competitive stream can be fulfilled anywhere in BC, not
being limited to rural areas





PGY 1

**Transition to Discipline Stage** (July - October) **  
  
****Foundations Stage**(November - June)

During their first year, residents will attain competencies foundational to
the management of patients in Internal Medicine. This includes basic medical
management; managing acute issues while on call overnight; managing patients
during their full patient journey (through admission; call appropriate
consultations, and discharge); interacting with allied health professions and
synthesizing their input into a comprehensive care plan; formulating,
communicating, and implementing discharge plans; and reviewing consults with
resident peers. For the first 4 months of the first year (July – October),
residents will complete the Transition to Discipline stage, and in the next 8
months (November – June) they will complete the Foundations stage. Below are
the mandatory rotations under these two stages of training:

  * Bootcamp (aligned with the Vancouver Program)
  * Internal Medicine CTU Junior rotation, with on-call
  * Internal Medicine Ambulatory rotation
  * CCU Junior rotation
  * ICU Junior rotation
  * Subspecialty rotations



PGY 2

**Early Core  **(July - December)

During the first 6 months of their second year (July – December), residents
will attain competencies enabling them to practice more independently as a
senior resident. These include learning how to triage high volume and acuity;
managing complex patients; managing atypical case presentations; providing
consults to other clinical services; and assessing and managing critically ill
patients. Below are the mandatory rotations under this stage of training:

  * Internal Medicine Ward Consults or ED Consult
  * Internal Medicine Ambulatory rotation
  * Community General Internal Medicine
  * CCU Senior
  * Subspeciality rotations



PGY 2 + 3

**Advanced Core  **(January - June) + (July - June)

During the last 6 months of their second year (January – June) and the entire
12 months of their third year, residents will attain competencies preparing
them to act independently as a physician and mentor for other residents. These
including supervising and teaching junior learners; managing a full team of
patients; implementing health promotion strategies in patients with or at risk
of disease; caring for patients at end-of-life; assessing capacity for medical
decision making; performing procedures; discussing serious and complex aspects
of care with patients and families; and resuscitating critically ill patients.
Below are the mandatory rotations under this stage of training:

  * Internal Medicine CTU Senior rotation, with on-call
  * Internal Medicine Senior consult rotation (ward or ED consults)
  * Internal Medicine Community IM rotation
  * ICU Senior – Advanced Core
  * Subspecialty rotations



PGY 4

**Transition to Practice  **

Those residents who choose to complete a 4th year of Internal Medicine
training instead of pursuing a subspecialty fellowship through the 2nd MSM
CaRMS match will be able to tailor this 4th year significantly in accordance
with their interests. At this advanced level of competency, residents will
have the opportunity to spend a significant proportion of their training
practicing community internal medicine at community sites across Fraser
Health.



**Research & Resident Research Day**

Research / scholarly projects are a Royal College Requirement.  All residents
should work towards presenting at Research Day in their PGY 3 year. This event
is in collaboration with UBC's Core Vancouver program.

Fraser Health residents may access the UBC Research Office for assistance in
coordinating research projects. In addition, the infrastructure provided by
the Fraser Health Department of Evaluation and Research will be available to
Fraser Health residents. This includes:

  * Assistance and Guidance from the Clinical Trials and Business Development Team, which includes contract negotiation and execution with external parties; budgeting and financial management; oversight of research operations; clinical research regulatory guidance; and consent to contact patient registry.
  * Attaining Fraser Health Ethical and Operational approval with the assistance of the Research Approvals team.
  * Consultation on Program Evaluation and Evaluation Frameworks.



* * *

# Training Sites

The Fraser track follows a hub-and-spoke model.

Serving as the hub, Surrey Memorial is the home site for this program: it is
one of the fastest growing communities in the province, houses the full
complement of medical subspecialties and required consultative services,
possesses all the physical assets needed to deliver a robust PGME program (UBC
lecture theatre, academic spaces and meeting rooms, resident lounge, call
rooms, etc.), and has a strong and growing reputation for delivering high
quality education.

The following 8 community sites serves as the spokes: Abbotsford Regional
Hospital, Burnaby Hospital, Chilliwack General Hospital, Delta Hospital, Eagle
Ridge Hospital, Langley Memorial Hospital, Peace Arch Hospital, and Ridge
Meadows Hospital.  
Community internal medicine rotations will expose residents to the full
breadth of the diverse Fraser Health region, with Community ICU exposure,
inpatient, consultative and ambulatory experiences built into the Internal
Medicine rotations. As opposed to the one mandatory rotation required in most
Internal Medicine residencies across Canada, the Fraser Health track would
provide the opportunity for residents to have at least 3 rotations in the
community spoke sites in their first 3 years.



* * *

# Additional Information

The Fraser stream falls under one of the health authorities in BC, called
Fraser Health.

Fraser Health is the largest of the five regional health authorities in B.C.
working together with the [Ministry of
Health](https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/health/about-bc-s-health-care-
system/partners/health-authorities). We are responsible for the delivery of
hospital and community-based health services to more than 1.9 million people
in 20 diverse communities from Burnaby to Fraser Canyon on the traditional,
ancestral and unceded territories of the Coast Salish and Nlaka’pamux Nations.

Our communities include a diverse multicultural population including six Métis
Chartered Communities and approximately 62,000 Indigenous Peoples associated
with 32 First Nation communities.

Our team of nearly 45,000 staff, medical staff and volunteers is dedicated to
serving our patients, families and communities to deliver on our vision:
Better health, best in health care.



* * *

# FAQ

  1. WHEN WILL I BE NOTIFIED OF AN INVITATION TO INTERVIEW?

All applicants, whether successful or not, will receive notification on
January 10, 2025.

  2. WILL I KNOW WHO MY INTERVIEWERS ARE PRIOR TO THE INTERVIEW?

You will not have information with respect to your interviewers prior to the
day of your interview.

  3. IS THERE A LEAD RESIDENT OR ANOTHER RESIDENT I CAN CONTACT WITH RESPECT TO PROGRAM-RELATED QUESTIONS?

If you are unable to find answers in the program description, please forward
your questions to FraserIM.PGME@ubc.ca.

  4. IF I AM NOT SHORTLISTED HOW CAN I APPEAL TO HAVE MY FILE REVIEWED AGAIN?

Files are not re-reviewed .  The Department of Medicine receives a large
number of excellent candidates and it is extremely difficult to develop a
shortlist. We do feel, however, that we have developed excellent criteria for
development of a shortlist. We receive many requests from applicants
asking us to review their files again and out of fairness to all applicants
will decline to do this except for very extenuating circumstances.

  5. MY REFEREE HAS NOT SENT MY REFERENCE LETTER TO CARMS BY THE DEADLINE DATE. CAN I SEND YOU A HARD OR ELECTRONIC COPY?

We do not take hard copies of any file materials. The selection process is
completely electronic. No paper copies are printed and our faculty work
directly from the electronic CaRMS site. No materials will be accepted -
electronically or otherwise - after the deadline date.

  7. I WILL BE IN THE LOWER MAINLAND FOR AN ELECTIVE PRIOR TO THE INTERVIEW DATES. IS IT POSSIBLE TO SET UP AN INTERVIEW AT THAT TIME?

No interviews will be set up prior to the shortlisting process or the formal
interview dates. Our process is intended to be equitable to all applicants.

  8. IS THERE ANY SPECIFIC CRITERIA FOR THE PERSONAL LETTER?

We don't want to limit the personal letter to just medical content so along
with telling us why UBC/Internal Medicine interests you please provide
additional information about yourself that may be of interest

  9. IF MY PERSONAL LETTER IS LONGER THAN THE REQUESTED ONE PAGE WILL IT NEGATIVELY IMPACT MY APPLICATION?

No - UBC, however, receives over 400 applications each year and we are
attempting to keep the paperwork down to a minimum for the file reviewers.

  10. WILL THE INTERVIEWERS HAVE ACCESS TO MY FILE ON THE INTERVIEW DAY?

Your interviewer does not have access to your files. The interview scoring is
based solely on the interview.

  11. I HAVE HEARD A RUMOUR THAT UBC RANKS THEIR OWN TRAINEES FIRST. IS THIS CORRECT?

No - UBC has never had a policy of ranking their students first. We believe in
ranking the best applicants we can regardless of where they trained.

  12. IS IT EASY TO FIND RESEARCH MENTORS AND OPPORTUNITIES?

Our research office assists residents in connecting with faculty with related
research interests.

  13. IF I HAVE FAMILY COMMITMENTS WILL I STILL BE REQUIRED TO DO ROTATIONS AWAY FROM THE LOWER MAINLAND AREA?

Residents may be expected to do 3 - 6 blocks away from their 3 core years at
one of our distributed sites.

  14. WHAT IS THE CURRENT ACCREDITATION STATUS OF YOUR PROGRAM.

The UBC Postgraduate Program is fully accredited.

  15. HOW MUCH OUT OF PROVINCE ELECTIVE TIME IS ALLOWED?

Three months during the core three years of training.  This is negotiable for
special requests.

  16. HOW MUCH RESEARCH TIME IS ALLOWED?

Three months during the core three years of training.

  17. HOW MANY RESIDENTS CURRENTLY IN THE PROGRAM?

Our program is brand new and is our first year accepting residents through
CaRMS.

  18. ARE FELLOWSHIP POSITIONS GUARANTEED?

Residents are guaranteed four years of funding. Fellowship positions are
competitive and residents are not guaranteed of a position at UBC.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26952?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26952