#  University of Alberta - Radiation Oncology - Edmonton

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Adele Duimering  

Address Cross Cancer Institute  
11560 University Avenue  
Edmonton, Alberta, T6G1Z2  

Work  (780) 432-8754

Fax

Websites of Interest [ University of Alberta Radiation Oncology Residency
Program ](https://www.ualberta.ca/oncology/programs/residency-
training/radiation-oncology1/index.html)  
[ University of Alberta Department of Oncology
](http://www.oncology.med.ualberta.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Adele Duimering

Title: Program Director

Email: adele.duimering@albertahealthservices.ca

Phone: (780)432-8754

  

Name: Helena Baines

Title: Program Administrator

Email: hbaines@ualberta.ca

Phone: 780 432 8754

  

* * *

# Important Information

​

* * *

# Return of Service

There are no return of service requirements at the University of Alberta.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

The radiation oncology training program at the University of Alberta follows
the guidelines of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. The
program consists of four stages: Transition to Discipline (1 month),
Foundations (9-13 months), Core (36-44 months of radiation oncology), and
Transition to Practice (3-9 months).

There is an established didactic teaching program covering necessary basic
science knowledge such as physics, radiobiology, treatment planning,
biostatistics and medical ethics as well as a two year core curriculum in
oncology which is shared with the medical oncology program and repeats itself
every two years.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Please see the Alberta [provincial
criteria.](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/)

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) are required to provide proof of
English language proficiency as determined by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) who completed their medical education in
Quebec or at the University of Ottawa (French Stream) are required to provide
proof of English language proficiency as determined by the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

CMGs who completed their medical education at the University of Ottawa must
indicate on their application which stream they completed (either French or
English).

_For more information on the CPSA English language requirements, please visit
the  [CPSA website](https://cpsa.ca/physicians/registration/english-language-
proficiency/)._

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three (3) letters of reference are required.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter should accompany all application forms. This should outline
the reason for the candidate's interest in speciality as well as some
background information and an outline of outside interests.

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: January 31 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Student Initiated:  
  
Students who have specific questions about the program not addressed by this
webpage may contact the Program Director at
[adele.duimering@ahs.ca](mailto:adele.duimering@albertahealthservices.ca)  
  
Program Initiated:  
  
Following a review of applications, short-listed candidates will be invited to
an interview.  
  
The virtual interview is conducted by two panels (15 minutes each) of 4-6
people, including resident(s) and the Program Director.  
  
A virtual meet and greet session will be organized for applicants to ask
questions of our current residents prior to the interview day.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates will be chosen on the basis of their:

-Strong academic record, especially in those areas related to our specialty.

-A convincing demonstration of sincere interest in radiation oncology as a career choice. Number of radiation oncology electives will not be considered as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and its effect on elective rotation scheduling.  

-Empathy, maturity, and communication skills.

-Candidates with a demonstrated interest in clinical or basic science are encouraged.

## Program goals

This training program is dedicated to ultimately produce well trained
Radiation Oncologists who can provide exemplary care to cancer patients.  As
well, the graduates should be able to promote the academic aspects of our
discipline as well as be involved in teaching and be prepared to participate
in healthcare administration.  To reach these goals our program must promote
the discipline to medical students through involvement in the undergraduate
curriculum.  Once appropriate candidates have been accepted into our program
it is our goal to provide excellent training as directed by the Royal College
of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada and more particularly the Radiation
Oncology Specialty Committee.  To oversee these goals an appropriate Residency
Program Committee is charged with these duties.

## Selection process goals

A potential candidate should be a well-rounded physician with excellent
interpersonal and communication skills to be able to deal with the demands of
cancer patients.  An aptitude for math and physics is helpful, but more
importantly we are looking for physicians who have explored the components of
radiation oncology which are not apparent to most medical students in their
limited exposure of our specialty.

Candidates require empathy, maturity and communication skills to be able to
deal with oncology patients.  A strong academic record and a demonstrated
interest in oncology is preferred.  Research and/or teaching experience is an
asset.

## File review process

Review team composition : The file review is conducted by a panel consisting
of: residents, program director, staff radiation oncologists, and possibly
physicists or medical oncologists.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Evidence of varied experiences   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  A broad range of electives   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of extra-curricular activities   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of leadership positions   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Comments from rotations   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Required - Outline the reason for candidates interest in specialty   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Required - 3 letters (by practicing physicians)   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Evidence of research involvement   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Required   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: None.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence of prior collaboration   
Collegiality |  Awareness of collegiality   
Communication skills |  Demonstration of communication skills   
Health advocacy |  Awareness of health advocacy issues   
Interest in the discipline |  Understanding of discipline   
Interest in the program |  Understanding of program   
Leadership skills |  Evidence/examples of leadership   
Professionalism |  Awareness of importance of professionalism   
Scholarly activities |  Evidence of scholarly involvement   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

 **Transition to Discipline (TTD) (1 month)**

This stage will introduce residents to the Radiation Oncology specialty.
Residents will have a comprehensive orientation in Radiation Oncology, which
will include: clinical experience (outpatient and inpatient), safety
principles, introduction to the practice of medicine (access to patient
records, policies, and knowledge centre), formal instruction in difficult
conversation and best practices for handover, as well as attendance at
multidisciplinary and peer reviewed rounds.

**Foundations of Discipline (F) (9-13 months)**

The Foundations stage will provide the resident with the knowledge and skills
to provide care to patients in various settings, as well as a broad exposure
to specialties which will help with their ability to qualify for the LMCC
part-two examinations.  Currently there are 10 four-week rotations, as well as
a four week vacation block.  These rotations are as follows:  Internal
Medicine (2 blocks), General Surgery, ENT, Emergency Medicine, Palliative
Care, Medical Oncology (2 blocks), Diagnostic Radiology, and Respiratory
(ATOP).

**Core of Discipline (C) (36-44 months)**

The Core stage of training will focus on the resident’s clinical skills in
radiation oncology. The resident returns to Radiation Oncology/Cross Cancer
Institute for the remainder of their training. The next 36-44 months are
preceptor based two-month blocks in which the resident is exposed to all tumor
sites.

During this stage residents are expected to provide Radiation Oncology home-
call for the Cross Cancer Institute approximately 7 days per block (no more
than 9).  The expectation is that all decisions and advice given by a Junior
Resident (PGY2-3) is reviewed with the Staff Radiation Oncologist on-call
prior to any actions being taken. After the PGY3 year the necessity to review
advice/decisions with the Staff member immediately will be left at the
discretion of the resident.

It is during this stage the didactic course work occurs. Early in Core stage
courses start with Basic Physics and Treatment Planning, with weekly lectures
from the physicists.  The Radiobiology course is also provided early in Core
stage, given by members of the Division of Experimental Oncology. Written
exams are given for each of these courses.  

One month is set aside as a Clinical Physics Month where in depth training and
exposure is provided by the Medical Physicists and Dosimetrists in applying
the basic knowledge learned previously to clinical treatment planning, this is
done after the completion of basic physics and treatment planning.

At the midway point of Core preceptor block rotations are lengthened to three
months to allow a more longitudinal exposure to patients through their
consultation and course of treatment.  At this time residents may also
consider clinical electives relevant to the specialty or completion of a
research project.  There is some flexibility in the timing of electives and
research.

A series of treatment planning seminars which are case oriented are given by
Radiation Oncologists to senior residents in their final year of the Core
stage (after completing their clinical physics month and prior to RC exams).

Mock oral examinations are given with increasing frequency over these years to
help prepare residents for the Royal College Exams.

Written exams are done yearly.

There are three sets of rounds in which residents are expected to make
presentations.  These are the Thursday Resident Rounds, Journal Club as well
as M&M Rounds.  The schedule for these rounds and the resident participation
is coordinated by the Lead Resident.

The Royal College Certification Exam will be written at the end of the Core
stage training.

**Research**

Residents are required to complete a scholarly project during their training.
A research project is encouraged.  The opportunity exists to participate in
clinical or basic science research in conjunction with other members of the
Department of Oncology through individually sponsored projects supplied and
supervised by Faculty members. The Department of Oncology includes a full
contingent of basic scientists doing research in radiobiology, physics and
molecular oncology as well as in clinical research. This ensures a broad and
varied spectrum of research through internal collaborations with expertise
readily available in many areas. For individuals wishing to pursue an academic
career the Department of Oncology has sponsored MSc and PhD programs which can
be integrated within the 5-year residency and is organized under the
University of Alberta Clinical Investigator Program.

**Transition to Practice (TTP) (3-9 months)**

Transition to Practice will refine the residents’ skills as a Radiation
Oncologist.  Residents will manage a radiation oncology practice at a
consultant level for at least four tumor sites.



* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

  * The University of Alberta and other Alberta Health Services Hospitals
  * Community-based cancer centres:  Grande Prairie Cancer Centre, Central Alberta Cancer Centre (Red Deer), Jack Ady Cancer Centre (Lethbridge).
  * A one-month mandatory community-based rotation has been introduced as of July 1, 2014.
  * The Cross Cancer Institute is a freestanding cancer clinic on the campus of the University of Alberta. There are 45 inpatient beds and comprehensive outpatient facilities. The division of Radiation Oncology serves a population base of 1.5 million and treats more than 3,900 patients per year. The division is well equipped for the delivery of standard radiotherapy as well as conformal radiotherapy, SRS/SBRT, intensity modulated radiotherapy and both low and high dose rate brachytherapy. A Centre for Biological Imaging and Adaptive Radiotherapy includes PET imaging, and a 3-Tesla functional MRI unit. New technologies include a GammaKnife ICON unit, and a MRI-Linac. The division is actively involved in international and national clinical trials.

  * Interprovincial and international electives are available only if arranged by the resident and approved by all involved parties (Residency Program Committee, Postgraduate Office, Alberta Health Services)
  * The ratio of residents to faculty is approximately 1:3
  * As most rotations are preceptor based, the patient load is divided among a few inpatients, 12-25 patients on active treatment and outpatient clinics, where there might be 15-30 patient contacts per week.
  * There is a comprehensive integrated computing network with web access, electronic charts and electronic imaging.
  * There is a resident library including textbooks and educational CDs.

* * *

# Additional Information

CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)

The University of Alberta recognizes the importance of diversity, equity,
inclusivity, decolonization, and indigenization (EDIDI) and is committed to
the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry’s policy on anti-racism.

Further, the University is committed to implementing the Truth and
Reconciliation Commission calls to action that are relevant to education and
medicine.The pursuit of diversity and equitable opportunities is a core value
that guides our selection practices.

The University encourages applications from underrepresented groups, including
Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women,
persons of a minority gender identity or sexual orientation, and individuals
who would contribute to the diversity of the medical community. The CaRMS
Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) is an optional form that candidates
can fill out.

Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism in residency
selection, but is currently not using the CSIQ as part of our application
process. We are using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable
opportunities for all applicants.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27446?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27446