#  NOSM University - Urology - Thunder Bay  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on November 11, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Walid Shahrour  

Address Urology  
955 Oliver Road  
Thunder Bay, Ontario, P7B 5E1  

Websites of Interest [ NOSM U Urology ](https://www.nosm.ca/urology)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Shawne Neubauer

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: shneubauer@nosm.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

## NOSM UNIVERSITY UROLOGY INFORMATION SESSION

**Date:**  November 22, 2024  
**Time:** 7 PM EST  
**Location:**  via [WEBEX
HERE](https://nosm.webex.com/nosm/j.php?MTID=m6af1af8f6cce26a28b6b577df5c2fc01)

Join the NOSM University Urology Team to discover details about our Urology
Program. Program leadership and faculty will provide insights and information
on the curriculum, training opportunities, and unique features of our program.

The session will include:

  * An overview presentation of the program
  * Details on resident life and support services
  * A Q&A segment to address all your queries

Whether you're considering a career in urology or looking to learn more about
our offerings, this session is an excellent opportunity to interact directly
with our team. We look forward to your participation.

The Program has an intake of two residents per year, who will be based in
Thunder Bay. The educational model of the Program, from its inception, is the
competence by design (CBD) model of training.  

NOSM University Urology residents will train in two main centres: Thunder Bay,
the Greater Toronto area and potentially Sudbury in the future. Each centre
has unique features and patient populations that will expose residents to
diverse patient populations that span across the province.  Residents will
complete the majority of their rotations at Thunder Bay Regional Health
Sciences Centre (TBRHSC), located in Thunder Bay.  An inter-institutional
agreement with the University of Toronto will provide specific mandatory
training rotations to supplement the residents’ exposure to the disciplines
that the population in Northern Ontario cannot consistently provide them.  

Northern Ontario, a large landmass with approximately 800 000 residents, has a
higher proportion of the population that identify as Indigenous (13%) and
Francophone (16%) compared to the overall proportion in the province.
Furthermore, approximately 40% of the population live in rural communities.
The opportunity for community and rural experience is a major component of
resident training at NOSM University and is one of the aspects which will set
this Program apart from others in Canada.

The Greater Toronto Area (GTA), on the other hand, the largest metropolitan
centre in Canada, encompasses a diverse population, including several ethnic
and social backgrounds. While there are only a few rotations in Toronto,
because of the large population, residents will be exposed to another dynamic
learning environment which is unique to a metropolitan setting and learn from
physicians that are practicing within the benefits and challenges experienced
in a metropolitan centre.

There are numerous communities located in Northern Ontario that do not have
direct access to urological services. The program will help learners
understand the needs and strategies to get urological care to these patients,
including those in indigenous communities. The Program includes experiences in
regional hospitals where residents will go to these smaller communities to
perform clinics and urological procedures. To increase residents' awareness of
the community hospital urologic patient population, residents will be given
the opportunity to interact further through receiving consultation from
peripheral communities during calls and participating in Teleconsultation
clinics.

NOSM University will provide housing for Block placements and the Urology
program will reimburse residents for short term housing and transport for
residents in those clinical settings.

JOIN INFORMATION

Meeting link  
https://nosm.webex.com/nosm/j.php?MTID=m6af1af8f6cce26a28b6b577df5c2fc01

Meeting number  
2426 830 1328

Video address  
24268301328@nosm.webex.com

Audio connection  
CANADA/US TOLL FREE +1-855-699-3239  
TORONTO LOCAL +1-647-798-0132

Access code  
2426 830 1328



**COVID-19 Vaccination Policy**

Please be aware the Ministry of Health has mandated all hospital and health
care employers establish, implement and ensure compliance with a mandatory
COVID-19 vaccination policy. The Ministry directive can be reviewed [here.
](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.health.gov.on.ca%2Fen%2Fpro%2Fprograms%2Fpublichealth%2Fcoronavirus%2Fdir_mem_res.aspx&data=04%7C01%7Cpatricia.houston%40utoronto.ca%7C86b6b0a226f740b1308008d981b97b64%7C78aac2262f034b4d9037b46d56c55210%7C0%7C0%7C637683457388702741%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C2000&sdata=3SetpoSaa6BS0yUqTQ6BsmJN%2FILDWyHNgstp6ZGWkeM%3D&reserved=0)Residents
matched to any Ontario residency program must ensure they are able to comply
with the Ministry directive in order to start training July 1, 2025.

It is important to understand this is an evolving issue. You are required to
review Provincial, Hospital, University and Program information to ensure you
are in continued compliance with directives.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Applications will be accepted through the CaRMS R-1 Main Residency Match
application process.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

_Canadian Citizenship:_

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided by submitting one of
the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.  Failure
to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.  No
other forms of verification are acceptable.

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of the card must be provided and legible.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Letters of Reference must be completed by clinical teachers and/or faculty who
have a reasonable knowledge of you, either through close association in
clinical training situations or as your faculty advisor. If possible, one or
more letters from a faculty member in Urology is helpful but not required.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Appreciated for memory aid.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

**A personal letter (maximum 1000 words) should focus on the following:**

  * Your career interests / goals

  * experiences that led to your interest in urology ;
  * aspects of the NOSM U Urology Residency Program that interest you;
  * connections or personal qualities that make you an ideal candidate for training /practice in Northern and rural settings;
  * how you anticipate this program will assist you in becoming an excellent urologist;
  * your greatest challenge if you are accepted into this program;
  * additional information about yourself that should be considered by the Selection Panel.

**_If your  transcript/CV indicates academic difficulty, failure(s), repeat of
a year or any gaps in your education or work history please attach a
supplementary statement to the beginning of your Personal Letter entitled
"Transcript/CV Addendum" explaining the above._**

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Two members of the resident selection committee will review and score each
applicant file, including reference letters. The scoring system takes into
consideration the selection criteria outlined below. These scores will be
aggregated and reviewed by the selection committee. Unfortunately, we are not
able to interview all of the applicants and we will offer interviews to the
most competitive candidates based on these reviews.  

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 8, 2025
  * February 9, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be scheduled by the Urology
CaRMS Fair Coordinating Office. Interviews will take place on either Saturday,
February 8 or Sunday, February 9, 2025.  The exact date is still to be
confirmed.  Interviews _ _ with our program will be conducted using a virtual
platform.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Candidates who who scored highest on
the file review  
  
Candidates will participate in two panel-style interviews virtually.  
  
This interview will be approximately 20 minutes. Interview teams will be
comprised of faculty members including the Program Director and current NOSM U
Urology faculty. The program coordinator will also be available as a resource
throughout the day.  
  
A program overview will be provided electronically prior to the interview, by
either the Program Director or a faculty member or both. Additional
information will be included in the emailed interview oﬀer and conﬁrmation
package.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates must have an excellent academic record and a strong interest in
urology. This should include electives in urology. Expressed and fulfilled
research interests will be useful, but they do not have to be in urology.
Urologists' references describing motivation, aptitude, maturity,
interpersonal skills, ethical behaviour, and empathy will be highly valued.
Three letters of reference are required, at least two of which should come
from urologists.

## Program goals

Our mission is to educate residents who have a strong surgical and procedural
aptitude to become competent specialists in urology, prepared to practice in
any setting, including rural and northern communities.

Our goal is to deliver a comprehensive hands-on curriculum that's designed to
ensure that all of the urology CanMEDS competencies outlined by the Royal
College are met, thus allowing our residents to acquire and hone all the
necessary skills/knowledge to develop into highly competent, professional, and
skilled urologists.

## Selection process goals

Through our selection process, our Program aims to identify candidates who
have a strong academic history with demonstrated competence and interest in
urology (e.g. surgical rotations, electives, scholarly activities, conference
involvement and other related work or life experiences). We are seeking
candidates who possess superior clinical communication skills and have the
ability to relate to patients, their families, and caregivers with compassion,
empathy, sensitivity and humility.

We are looking for candidates who possess the ability and willingness to work
collaboratively (within and across professional domains) in a team dynamic to
secure optimal patient outcomes, while exemplifying the highest standards of
professional behavior -- inclusive of responsibility, respect, and self-
awareness.

Our program and NOSM university value the importance of equity, diversity, and
inclusion (EDI) in residency education, and achieving a diverse and inclusive
group of residents is a goal of our selection process.

We are also looking to identify candidates who would be a good ﬁt for our
program. Candidates who are well suited to our program are those with a strong
surgical and procedural aptitude, who can adapt and thrive in a hands-on,
distributed rural residency program that requires ﬂexibility and some travel
away from their primary location of residence.

We also believe that candidates who are resilient, can prioritize their
personal well-being and work-life balance, and are also committed to self-
directed learning and reﬂective practice, continuing professional development,
and quality improvement, are well-suited to our program. Through our selection
process we aim to identify and successfully match candidates who possess these
attributes as well.

## File review process

Review team composition : The ﬁle review team consists of program faculty.
Each application will be reviewed and scored independently by a combination of
2-4 program faculty members.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
This is the second year of the Urology Program, and as such, these statistics
are currently not available

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  
This is the second year of the Urology Program, and as such, these statistics
are currently not available

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Academic & work background/experiences, personal/professional achievements/awards, volunteerism   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Urology/Surgical elective(s), diverse range relevant to the discipline, rural and/or northern an asset   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this ﬁle component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  An asset to demonstrate work-life balance and wellness, personal interests. Include in CV   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Any leadership roles held throughout training should be outlined in the CV   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Patient interactions, surgical rotation competencies, academic/personal/professionalism concerns   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Practice goals, interest/knowledge in urology. & our program, personal and northern/rural   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Commitment to surgery., performance, knowledge/clinical skills, character/attitude towards learning   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Past achievements/successes and interest in participating in future scholarly activity   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Strength of academic record, any red ﬂags/concerns   
Other file component(s) |  If any part of your application indicates academic diﬃculty, failure(s), repeat of a year or any gaps in your education or work history, a supplementary statement at the END of your Personal Letter is required. Please entitle your statement as "Transcript/CV Addendum", explaining the above.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Demonstrated ability to work well in a team setting/multidisciplinary environment   
Collegiality |  Personable, respectful towards others, values the importance of a supportive/collegial atmosphere   
Communication skills |  Able to reﬂect and communicate responses clearly and concisely, can communicate well with others   
Health advocacy |  We do not formally evaluate this component during the interview   
Interest in the discipline |  Genuine passion for urology., knowledgeable, competent, clear understanding of our specialty.   
Interest in the program |  Knowledgeable about our program, training sites, northern Ontario patient populations and challenge   
Leadership skills |  Qualities such as: proactive/takes initiative, accountable, innovative, motivated and goal-oriented   
Professionalism |  Conducts themselves in a professional manner, self-aware, unbiased, morally/ethically responsible   
Scholarly activities |  We do not formally evaluate this component during the interview   
Other interview component(s) |  Problem-Solving Skills: Overcoming challenges, conﬂict resolution, ability to rationalize.  
  
Knowledge/Skills: Ability to apply clinical knowledge, assess, plan, and take
appropriate action.  
  
Personal Attributes: Demeanor, personality, attitude towards learning.  
  
Time management: Ability to make good use of time/plan accordingly.  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  In keeping with the CanMEDs roles, please note that throughout the
entire application and interview process, your interactions with NOSM U
personnel may be taken into consideration by the program in their selection
process and ranking decisions.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * Early surgical skill training
  * Individualized educational goals focused on anatomy and surgical procedures; 24 hour in-hospital access to full body cadavers Unparalleled preceptor support from knowledgeable surgeons committed to practicing in Northern Ontario
  * Early integration as a key member of a health care team, dedicated to professionalism, high quality patient care and excellent medical education Exposure to the culture and social fabric of Francophone and Indigenous communities
  * Opportunity to participate in research under expert guidance
  * Opportunity for learning experiences in a range of Northern urban and rural clinical settings Funding available for research, professional development and conferences
  * Provision of ﬁnancial support for resident travel to and from core clinical placements away from the home base and all mandatory educational activities at non home base locations
  * Dedicated career planning

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The educational model of the Program, from its inception, will be the
competence by design (CBD) model of training.

**Curriculum  **

The program includes core rotations in urology and subspecialty rotations
selected to incorporate a diversity of experience and proﬁciency in
subspecialty areas that are integral to community based practice, but less
commonly emphasized in traditional urology residency programs.

Based on the resident`s personal learning plan, the content, sequence of
training, and the schedule of movement between teaching sites may vary. The
majority of rotations will be completed in Thunder Bay with rotations in
Toronto, depending on preceptor and clinical resources. Residents are required
to provide their own vehicle.

**Sample Rotation Plan (rotations in Thunder Bay or northern hospitals unless
noted otherwise; blocks are 4 weeks in length).  ). Please note that rotations
are subject to change based on scheduling availability and Royal College
accreditation standards**

PGY1

General Surgery - 4 block

Vascular - 2 block

Transplant – 1 block

Trauma – 1 block

Urology – 3 blocks

Pediatrics - 2 block



PGY2

Research – 1 blocks

ICU – 2 blocks

Urology – 6 blocks (Sudbury)

Urology - 4 blocks (Thunder Bay)



PGY3

Research – 1 block

Pediatric Urology – 3 blocks (Toronto)

Urology – 9 blocks (6 blocks Thunder Bay & 3 Blocks Sudbury)



PGY4

Infertility – 1 block  (Toronto)

Research – 1 block

Urology – 11 blocks (6 blocks Thunder Bay & 5 Blocks Sudbury)



PGY5

Elective- 1 block

Urology - 11 blocks (6 blocks Thunder Bay & 5 blocks Sudbu

Urology Clinic – 1 block





**Academic Half Days  **

Residents will have protected time to attend weekly academic sessions. Senior
resident(s), fellows, or faculty will prepare and present material in
preparation for the Royal College Exams and from Campbell Walsh Urology
textbook.  A faculty will supervise resident and fellow presentations and
engage the other residents to participate in a discussion on the topics that
will be selected by the Academic Coordinator and approved by the Residency
Program Committee.

* * *

# Training Sites

There are two main teaching sites where residents will complete the majority
of their rotations which are: Thunder Bay Regional Health Sciences Centre
(TBRHSC), located in Thunder Bay; and Health Sciences North (HSN), located in
Sudbury. The following rotations are provided at the University of Toronto:
transplant, pediatric urology, and fertility

* * *

# Additional Information

To learn more about Northern Ontario, please visit the "[Wider Campus of the
Northern Ontario School of Medicine](https://www.nosm.ca/our-community/wider-
campus-of-the-northern-ontario-school-of-medicine/) University " webpage.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27359?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27359