#  University of Ottawa - Neurology - Ottawa  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 01, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1 click here

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Christine De Meulemeester  

Address Ottawa Hospital - Civic Campus  
1053 Carling Ave , Ottawa , Rm C2196  
Ottawa, Ontario, K1Y4E9  

Work  6137985555 x10966

Fax

Websites of Interest [ CanPrepp ](https://canprepp.ca/programs/university-of-
ottawa-neurology-ottawa/)  
[ Think Ottawa Medicine ](https://www.thinkottawamedicine.ca/pgy1/)  
[ Instagram - uOttawa Adult Neurology
](https://www.instagram.com/ottawaneurology/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Janis Amell- Crawley

Title: Program Administrator

Email: jacrawley@toh.ca

Phone: (613) 798-5555 x.10966

  

Name: Dr. Christine De Meulemeester

Title: Program Director

Email: cdemeulemeester@toh.ca

Phone: (613) 798-5555 x.10966

  

* * *

# Important Information

**All candidates must meet the Ontario Criteria of Eligibility**  found
[here](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-criteria/provincial-
criteria/ontario/).

**COVID-19 vaccination**

Please be aware that most, if not all, hospitals in Ontario have mandatory
COVID-19 vaccination policies in place that require, in the absence of a valid
medical or human rights exemption, proof of vaccination. Acceptable
vaccination must be in accordance with Health Canada. You will be required to
provide an attestation that you meet this requirement as part of the CaRMS
application process and any actual documentation will be collected by the
appropriate institution if matched. These guidelines could change at any time
in accordance with future direction from the Ministry of Health or the
Universities based on information from Public Health.

**Failure to meet or provide proof of any of the stated requirements may
result in an applicant’s file not being reviewed or removed from the Rank
Order List.**

**MCCQE (Medical Council of Canada qualifying examination) Part 1 results** :

Trainees will be required to disclose their MCCQE Part 1 examination results
upon entry into any of the University of Ottawa's training programs.  The
purpose of this disclosure is to allow for resources to be provided to the few
residents who would benefit from extra support early in their residency in an
effort to maximize their success.

**Licensing/Registration:   **Must have documents verified through
physiciansapply.ca

**Failure to meet or provide proof of any of the stated requirements may
result in an applicant’s file not being reviewed or removed from the Rank
Order List.**

**Pre-Residency Program:**

All International Medical Graduates who match to a residency training position
in Ontario are required to complete the Pre-Residency Program through
Touchstone Institute prior to the start of their residency training.

To find out more about the Pre-Residency Program, please visit:
[https://touchstoneinstitute.ca/learning/](https://touchstoneinstitute.ca/learning/)

* * *

# Return of Service

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

All candidates must meet the Ontario Criteria of Eligibility.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  * Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  * Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  * Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  * Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Language assessment document accepted:  **TOEFL-iBT

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum score of 93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section. The TOEFL iBT Home Edition will be accepted as a substitute for the TOEFL iBT

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:**  must have minimum score of 7.0 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Occupational English Test (OET)
-Medicine

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP)

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum score of 9.0 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Letter of language proficiency

  * Letter of language proficiency is a letter from your Dean attesting that your medical school program of instruction was completed solely in English or French
  * Alternatively, candidates can submit a printout from the [World Directory of Medical Schools](http://www.wdoms.org/) which clearly states that the language of instruction is English or French.

Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site. Please
review specific program descriptions for more information.

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

**Results must be provided by File Review Date.**

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

**Results must be provided by File Review Date.**

  * **MCCQE part II passing score can be used to apply instead of the NAC passing score.**

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Reference letters are letters or evaluation forms provided by physicians
and/or professors recommending you for further medical training. Letters
written by professors and/or physicians are preferably by those who have
supervised you in a clinical or educational setting.



Letters of reference should be a maximum of 1000 words.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

**Must be a graduate from an acceptable medical school listed on the World
Directory of Medical Schools website
at[**http://www.wdoms.org/**](http://www.wdoms.org/)**.****

Order from your Registrar. Documents that are not in English must be
accompanied by a certified translation.









* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: All interviews will be conducted with a
virtual format using Zoom. Please ensure that you have a working device
(computer/laptop preferred but smartphone is acceptable) that has been tested
for compatibility and functionality with Zoom. The Zoom software and accounts
can be set up at <https://zoom.us/>  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Applicants who are judged to have a
strong dossier according to the program criteria will be interviewed virtually
via Zoom.  
  
Every attempt will be made to coordinate interviews with those at other
medical schools. Applicants selected for an interview, with further questions,
can contact the program administrator by email.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

**Pre-Residency Program**

All International Medical Graduates accepted to all residency programs will be
required to complete the Pre-Residency Program (PRP) prior to entering a
residency program. Matched IMGs will be expected to attend the PRP virtually
and in-person through [Touchstone
Institute](https://touchstoneinstitute.ca/learning/preresidencyprogram/).

We are interested in applicants who demonstrate a strong interest and
motivation to study and practice Neurology. We are looking for team players,
who are excited to join a group of colleagues who are committed to helping
each other succeed both in residency and in later practice. We are searching
for well rounded individuals with strong references that show evidence of
excellent cognitive, communication and interpersonal skills. While academic
research experience in fields related to neurology (as evidenced by additional
degrees, publications, etc.) is viewed positively, this is not mandatory for
successful application to the program. We also value other life and personal
experiences that contribute to a well rounded candidate, whether directly or
indirectly relevant to neurology training.

## Program goals

Our goal is to provide world-class neurology training in a supportive,
challenging, and collegial environment. We recognize the societal need for
neurologists, and are committed to helping successful applicants acquire the
knowledge, skills, and experience required to practise neurology while
fostering individual residents' interests and helping them achieve their
goals. We aim to provide a top-notch educational experience that will enable
our graduates to excel in their chosen career path while maintaining their own
wellness for the duration of their careers.

## Selection process goals

A successful applicant will demonstrate:

  * A clear motivation to practise neurology
  * Strong interpersonal skills and evidence of being a strong team player
  * Interest in the program in Ottawa and knowledge of the program
  * Evidence of excellent cognitive skills and strong academic performance, especially in areas relevant to neurology
  * Evidence of success in other areas - including extracurricular, professional practice or prior work experience

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team consists of the program director and
a selection subcommittee that consists of members of the residency program
committee including 2-4 other faculty members and the co-chief residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Awards/accomplishments, work/academic experience relevant to neurology   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Evidence of interest in neurology and Ottawa   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Evidence of cognitive / academic excellence   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Outstanding / unique accomplishments   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of activities / accomplishments that highlight leadership skills   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evidence of strong academic performance, especially in domains relevant to neurology   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in neurology and in the uOttawa program. Genuine personal reflection. Can elaborate on key or relevant aspects of personal life or medical training. Expecting approximately 500-1000 words (max. 1200).   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Interest in neurology, interpersonal skills, dedication, responsibility, cognitive skills   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Recent and relevant academic activity relevant (directly or indirectly) to neurology. Please include in your CV.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evidence of successful academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We do not preferentially rank applicants who have only
pursued electives in one discipline and support the concept of students doing
a minimum of 2 week electives in 3 different specialties, though encourage at
least one elective in neurology.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due
to weather, technology failure or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence of prior successful collaboration   
Collegiality |  Conduct with colleagues, behaviour under stress   
Communication skills |  Ability to process information and convey ideas succintly and effectively   
Health advocacy |  Shows awareness of issues that affect care of patients and the ability/interest to advocate on their behalf at a patient, hospital, and system level.   
Interest in the discipline |  Strong interest in the discipline demonstrated   
Interest in the program |  Strong interest in the program demonstrated   
Leadership skills |  Elaboration on roles taken in prior accomplishments   
Professionalism |  Professional behviour throughout interview process   
Scholarly activities |  Description of role in academic accomplishments, future goals   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Established in 1969 and fully accredited in 1971 - our program has strong
historical roots and we continue to strive to improve the program every year
with a goal of providing a world-class neurology education.



Numerous initiatives (expansion of longitudinal clinics, hierarchical resident
integration on-call and on CTU, bi-annual OSCEs, focused research and clinical
streams, focused rotations in nearly all sub-specialties) have enriched the
neurology residency program resulting in residents expressing high levels of
satisfaction with their education. This has lead to recruitment of excellent
Canadian Medical Graduates and International Medical Graduates over the past
number of years. It is our residents who continue to excel and create an
environment of both clinical excellence and academic success.



In addition to traditional weekly neuroscience rounds, the Division of
Neurology has gradually integrated a wide spectrum of subspecialty rounds:
neurovascular, stroke research, neuromuscular, neuro-ophthalmology/neuro-
otology, movement disorders, journal club, and basic neuroscience.



The philosophy of our residency program has always been to offer a wide
exposure to all aspects of clinical neurology, as well as academic research
and the basic sciences, which are so vital to understanding neurological
disease. It is our goal to support residents in their chosen area of interest,
and through the initiatives detailed above our resident graduates have been
well prepared to ultimately pursue any career path they may choose: community
or academic practice; with pure clinical, administrative, and/or research
interests. We are proud of our resident graduates who have secured competitive
fellowships in Canada, the US, and overseas. In addition, after completing
their training our graduates have assumed both community Neurology and full-
time academic positions at prestigious hospitals and institutions throughout
Canada and the US. Many of our former residents are presently staff members in
the Division including both part-time and full time staff.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

PROGRAM OVERVIEW



Our five-year program begins with two months of neurology training on the CTU
and neurovascular unit (NVU), supplemented by neurology "boot camp" given by
senior neurology residents in conjunction with a neurology half-day focused on
neuroanatomy and neurophysiology. This is followed by rotations in core
Internal Medicine and subspecialties, further neurology CTU, and
neuroradiology rotations. Near the end of the first year residents select to
enter research stream or clinical stream. Both streams provide excellent
clinical neurology training, with the research stream having more dedicated
research time spread throughout the residency and deliverables at the end of
each training year. The clinical stream also requires a scholarly project to
be done throughout the residency, and has a dedicated curriculum focused on
the interpretation of research as it applies to clinical neurology practice.



The second year is focused on further training on the CTU and NVU with
increased responsibility, in addition to subspecialty internal medicine,
subspecialty outpatient neurology rotations, and initial exposure to the
neurology inpatient consultation service.



The remainder of the neurology residency is focused on further clinical
training in neuroscience with increasing clinical responsibility and further
research training depending on the focus of the particular resident. Rotations
include Neurology CTU, neurology inpatient consultation service, Pediatric
Neurology, and various subspecialty clinics (with dedicated rotations in
movement disorders, epilepsy/EEG, neuromuscular/EMG, neuro-ophthalmology,
neuro-otology, cognitive neurology, headache, multiple sclerosis, community
neurology, and neuropathology).



Residents also attend their own weekly General Neurology Clinic longitudinally
throughout the last three years of the program. Up to ten months of
elective/selective time are also available, allowing residents to cater their
education experiences according to their career goals.



In the senior years, residents act as Case-Based learning (CBL) tutors for the
neuroscience undergraduate block, and in junior years they help teach the
neurological exam to undergraduate medical students.



As well, our Postgraduate Program takes pride in its dynamic didactic program,
arranged in the form of academic half-days, case rounds and journal clubs.
Tuesday afternoons are protected time for residents to attend their academic
half-day, where a rich 2-year interactive curriculum covering clinical
neurology, neuroscience and core CanMeds competencies is presented by the
University of Ottawa teaching staff and invited speakers. We have leveraged MS
Teams as a way of organizing and delivering learning resources for all our
rotations, allowing residents to attend the half-day virtually in addition to
recording all lectures for later viewing.



On Wednesday morning case rounds, a case is presented (either from the ward or
from the attending's clinics) and the selected condition is discussed.



Friday morning grand rounds are comprised of one hour of highly academic
presentations by local and invited speakers (neurology, neurosurgery,
neuropathology, basic sciences, pediatric neurology), with quarterly morbidity
and mortality (M&M) rounds focused on improving our clinical management of
neurological patients. Neurology residents are expected to present at these
M&M rounds in their third year, followed by full one hour grand rounds
presentations on their area of interest in the senior years. In addition,
there are weekly neurovascular rounds on Thursday afternoon discussing
management of neurovascular inpatients. There are also monthly sub-specialty
rounds (neuro-ophthalmology/neuro-otology, movement disorders, multiple-
sclerosis/mimics, Epilepsy surgical) as well as quarterly journal clubs.



Our residents are frequently evaluated with bi-annual Royal College-style
written exam and OSCEs (including standardized patients) and the annual RITE
exams. This is in addition to Competency by Design, with its focus on frequent
"on the job" evaluations that enable focused learning on key competencies at
all stages of residency. This combination of strategies ensures our residents
are well prepared for licensing exams as well as clinical practice following
residency.

# Detailed Sequence of rotations

# RESEARCH Stream

Program Year |  Content and Sequence of Rotations Months or 4-Week Blocks  
---|---  
  |  1 |  2 |  3 |  4 |  5 |  6 |  7 |  8 |  9 |  10 |  11 |  12 |  13  
PGY1 |  CTU* |  NVU* |  CTU |  CTU |  IM CTU |  IM CTU |  ICU |  ICU |  ER |  Psy |  Pall |  ID |  Con  
PGY2 |   NVU |   NVU |   NVU |  CTU |  Con |  Throm-bosis |  NRAD |  NOp/ Dizzy |   NSx clinic |  IM Selec  |  IM Selec |  IM or NRL Selec** |  Res  
PGY3** |  CTU ** |  CTU ** |  CTU ** |  NVU ** |  Con |  Con |  EEG |  EEG |  H/A |  EMG |  MVT/ COG |  MS/ Infl. |  Res  
PGY4** |  CTU ** |  NVU ** |  Con |  Con |  EMG |  EMG |  Path/ NOnc |  NRL Selec |  PEDS |  PEDS |   NRL Cmty |  NRL Selec |  Res   
PGY5** |  CTU “junior staff” ** |   Con |  Con |  Con |  Con |  PEDS |  NRL Selec |  NRL Selec |  NRL Selec |  NRL Selec |  NRL Selec |  NRL Selec |  Res  
  
 Con = Neurology consultation service

* MUST be done during blocks 1 and 2

** Years 3/4 rotations are listed under the years they are suggested to be
completed. However, they are interchangeable between years, **except CTU and
NVU**  Residents can also choose to do a subspecialty clinic rotation instead
of year 2 NRL selectives, with the selective moved into year 3-5. Senior
residents are given priority for rotation scheduling purposes.



# CLINICAL Stream:



Program Year |  Content and Sequence of Rotations Months or 4-Week Blocks  
---|---  
  |  1 |  2 |  3 |  4 |  5 |  6 |  7 |  8 |  9 |  10 |  11 |  12 |  13  
PGY1 |  CTU* |  NVU* |  CTU |  CTU |  IM CTU |  IM CTU |  ICU |  ICU |  ER |  Psy |  Pall |  ID |  Con  
PGY2 |   NVU |   NVU |   NVU |  CTU |  Con |   Throm-bosis |  NRad |  NOp/ Dizzy |   NSx clinic |  IM Selec  |  IM Selec |  IM or NRL Selec ** |   IM or NRL Selec **  
PGY3** |  CTU ** |  CTU ** |  CTU ** |  NVU |  Con |  Con |  EEG |  EEG |  H/A |  EMG |  MVT/ COG |  MS/ Inflam. |  Res  
PGY4** |  CTU ** |  NVU ** |  Con |  Con |  Con |  EMG |   EMG |  Path/ NOnc |  NRL Selec |  PEDS |  PEDS   |  NRL Cmty |  NRL Selec  
PGY5** |  CTU “junior staff” ** |  Con |  Con |   Con |  Con |  PEDS |  NRL Selec |  NRL Selec |  NRL Selec |  NRL Selec |  NRL Selec |  NRL Selec |  NRL Selec  
  
  Con = Neurology consultation service

* MUST be done during blocks 1 and 2

** Years 3/4 rotations are listed under the years they are suggested to be
completed. However, they are interchangeable between years, **except CTU and
NVU.**  Residents can also choose to do a subspecialty clinic rotation instead
of year 2 NRL selectives, with the selective moved into year 3-5. Senior
residents are given priority for rotation scheduling purposes.



**Breadth of Exposure**

A wealth of neurological cases, representing all aspects of neurology, is
drawn from a referral base of over one million covering eastern Ontario and
western Quebec. While rotating on the General Neurology CTU and Neurovascular
CTU at the Civic Campus, each resident will carry about six in-patients, most
of whom require active care. A number of consultations are seen at both
hospitals in the emergency room and on other ward services. Residents at the
General Campus also see consultations at the adjacent Royal Ottawa Regional
Rehabilitation Centre and those at the Civic Campus at the Ottawa Heart
Institute. The Division of Neurology has close ties with the Internal
Medicine, Neurosurgery, Neuroradiology, Neuropsychology, Neuro-ophthalmology,
Neuro-Otology and Neuropathology services.

General Objectives of the Neurology Residency Program  
  

Residents completing the program will be able to serve as exemplary Consultant
Neurologists meeting the highest professional standards of competency,
compassionate and ethical behavior and care of patients and self-learning
ability/motivation. They will be well-prepared to meet the criteria of the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada for Neurology specialists
and to pass the Royal College Fellowship exams. They will be well- prepared to
pursue further Fellowship or advanced degree training in clinical
subspecialties or research.

  
  

Research  
  

During the first year of residency, all residents meet with our research co-
ordinator to discuss their personal goals for research productivity during the
residency program and to find a research mentor / supervisor. Those with
academic aspirations are suggested to proceed with a research stream - which
provides dedicated research time starting in the second year and spread
throughout the residency. Deliverables are expected at the end of each
academic year with the goal of producing multiple presentations and/or peer
reviewed publications and help launch a future academic career. Those wishing
to pursue a clinical or educational focus will have formal education in
interpretation and application of clinical research and also complete a
scholarly project during their residency which can range from quality
improvement to medical education to more formal research - all with the goal
of implementation or dissemination.

The Ottawa Health Sciences Research Institute has outstanding research
productivity. Several millions of dollars in research grants covering an
extensive clinical and basic research program are currently held by clinician-
scientists or basic researchers associated with the Division. The focus of
basic Neuroscience Research is molecular genetics of neurological disease,
mechanisms of cell damage and recovery from injury including ischemia, basic
aspects of how cells communicate in the nervous system, mechanisms of injury
to white matter, neuro-immunology as applied to MS. There are projects in
specialized neuro-imaging techniques in stroke, the epidemiology of Stroke and
health outcomes research. There are several clinical trials in areas such as
MS, epilepsy, stroke, headache, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer disease and
neuromuscular disease.

Facilities at the Hospital include MRI scanners equipped to do MR angiography
and spectroscopy studies, state-of-the-art CT scanners with specialized
software allowing CT angiography and blood flow studies , Doppler ultrasound
(including transcranial), SPECT and state-of-the-art laboratories for
computerized EEG, polysomnograpy, intensive EEG/video monitoring, evoked
potentials and EMG.

  
  

Formal Teaching Sessions/Rounds  
  

There is a very strong commitment to education among the staff. An up-to-date
library, resource centre and computer-based internet and literature search
facilities have been established at both the General and Civic Campuses.
Several postgraduate review courses have been organized by the division. There
is a well organized weekly formal teaching program including protected Tuesday
afternoon academic half-day based on a two-year curriculum repeated twice
during each resident's training. There are cross-city weekly Neurosciences
Grand Rounds which includes Neuroradiology, Neurology, Basic Neuroscience,
Pediatric Neurology/Neurosurgery and Neuropathology. There are also weekly
Wednesday A.M. patient presentation resident teaching rounds and weekly
neurovascular rounds.  Journal club occurs quarterly. In addition, there are
weekly neurovascular rounds on Thursday afternoon discussing management of
neurovascular inpatients. There are also monthly sub-specialty rounds in
neuro-ophthalmology/neuro-otology, movement disorders, multiple-sclerosis and
mimics, and surgical epilepsy rounds.

Examination of residents includes twice yearly written and OSCE exams which
follow the format of the RCPSC Fellowship examinations.  Our senior residents
also do the RITE exam yearly.



  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

**Resources**

-Ottawa Hospital - Civic Campus

1053 Carling Avenue  
Ottawa, Ontario  
K1Y 4E9

-Ottawa Hospital - General Campus

501 Smyth Road  
Ottawa, Ontario  
K1H 8L6

-Ottawa Hospital - Riverside Campus

1967 Riverside Dr.  
Ottawa, Ontario  
K1H 7W9

-Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO)

401 Smyth Road  
Ottawa ON K1H 8L1

-Ottawa Hospital Research Institute

501 Smyth Box 511  
Ottawa ON K1H 8L6

* * *

# Additional Information

**Head of the Division of Neurology, The Ottawa Hospital** : Dr. Grant Stotts



**The Ottawa Hospital:**

28 geographical full-time neurologists, including 15 clinician-teachers and 13
clinician-scientists; additionally there are 10 academic part-time clinician-
teachers.



**Centre Hospitalier Elizabeth Bruyère:**

2 neurologists specializing in Cognitive Neurology



**Basic Neuroscientists:**

The uOttawa Brain and Mind Research Institute directed by Dr. Ruth Slack.

The Center for Neuromuscular Disease directed by Dr Jodi Warman.

The Parkinsons Research Consortium directed by Dr. David Grimes and Dr.
Michael Schlossmacher.

The Champlain Stroke Network with Dr. Dylan Blacquiere, Medical Director.

* * *

# FAQ

Q. Is it possible to change the interview date or time due to a scheduling
conflict?

A. We will attempt to make individual arrangements if there is a conflict with
another medical

school or event. Please contact the Program Administrator after you are
notified of your interview

date and time.

Q. Can my interview be conducted over the telephone?

A. Formal telephone interviews will not be offered, though if there are
technical issues with the videoconferenced interview a phone interview may be
used as a backup option.

Q. Is there an opportunity to contact residents in the Neurology program prior
to my interview?

A. A meeting with some of our residents is part of our formal interview
process in addition to multiple residency information sessions which are
hosted in the fall by our residents. They provide the opportunity to learn
about the program and ask specific questions about the program. Specific dates
for those sessions will be available via CanPrePP and on our Instagram page.
Email addresses for our residents will be made available by request.  Please
email your request to the Program Administrator.  

Q. What is the format of the interview?

A. Each candidate will have three interviews lasting 20 to 30 minutes with 2
members of the program, including the Program Director, members of the
selection committee, and the co-chief residents. The interviews will be
conducted via Zoom. A lunch and learn presentation about the Ottawa Adult
Neurology Residency Program are also a part of the agenda, again to be
delivered virtually.

A "virtual social event" will be held the 1st evening of interviews for
candidates to interact with current residents and the program administrator,
outside the formal setting of interviews.

Q. What do I need to bring to the interview?

A. Interviews are virtual, and all required information should be submitted to
CaRMS based on the list of required documents.

For all other questions, please contact Janis Amell-Crawley, Program
Administrator. Email address: jacrawley@toh.ca

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27332?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27332