#  University of Manitoba - Psychiatry - Rural Brandon  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Michael Harrington  
Dr. Nina Kuzenko  

Address Psychiatry  
PsycHealth Centre  
PZ-412 - 771 Bannatyne Avenue  
Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3E 3N4  

(204) 787-4879

Websites of Interest [ Department of Psychiatry University of Manitoba
](https://umanitoba.ca/medicine/department-psychiatry)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Program Administrator

Title: Program Administrator

Email: PsychPGEAdmin@exhange.hsc.mb.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

The Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation for all residents, which
is****MANDATORY** , **will be held on June 26, 2025.**  
  
**

All International Medical graduates are required to attend a two week **IMG
Orientation** the last two weeks on June 2025.

* * *

# Return of Service

All IMGs will be required to sign a return of service contract with Manitoba
Health, in the specialty (including Family Medicine) in which they have
completed residency training. The ROS commitment is commensurate with the
length of the training program. All IMGs entering a training program already
holding a return of service obligation must disclose this obligation at the
time of application. IMGs who have an undischarged return of service
obligation may not be eligible to begin training in a position funded by
Manitoba Health. Such individuals may wish to contact Shared Health at [pmao-
residents@sharedhealthmb.ca](mailto:pmao-residents@sharedhealthmb.ca) for more
information.  
---  
  
* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

The University of Manitoba Psychiatry training program offers a supportive and
welcoming learning environment. Residents are active and central members of
the department of psychiatry, and the community as a whole comes together to
ensure excellence in education.

Our program has been able to develop an excellent balance between the
biological and psychological perspectives of treating psychiatric illness.
Residents receive expert training in biological and somatic treatments as well
as a high level of training in several modalities of psychotherapy.

**Application**

It is preferred that all required documentation is available at the time of
the opening of the application review period.  Documents submitted after the
deadline will be reviewed and considered to the extent possible given the
timing of those documents becoming available.

**Interview Information**

Virtual interviews only, to be held via Zoom. Interviews will only be
considered for those candidates with completed applications.  Candidates
selected for interviews will be contacted by email.

The selection process includes two interviews of approximately 30 minutes
each; one conducted by a committee and one by the residency program director.
.

Candidates will be selected on the basis of a demonstrated interest in,
aptitude and motivation for a career in psychiatry. Selection criteria include
recent clinical clerkship and elective experiences in psychiatry, prior
residency training in psychiatry or clinical work in the mental health field,
along with relevant life experiences and test results. References from
clinical supervisors that address an applicant's potential for work in
psychiatry are very helpful. Demonstrated proficiency with the English
language as evidenced through the nature of undergraduate courses completed
including university level English courses, publications, the submitted
personal letter and/or IELTS scores are also selection criteria. Strong
interpersonal and communication skills and a demonstrated interest and
curiosity about the human experience are important criteria that are explored
in the interview process. Interest and experience in scholarly work and
research are viewed as valuable assets.

While elective experience in psychiatry is an asset on-site electives are not
required for application to our program.  We are looking for candidates that
have completed electives in a broad range of topic areas that include our
specialty and are enthusiastic about working with residents from a variety of
backgrounds.



* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

Reference documents

Required

Applicant support form  Number requested: 3

Traditional letters of reference are no longer accepted for this program. Your
referee must complete the required structured reference form. Please include
this link in your reference request:
<https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/2025-Psychiatry-Structured-Reference-Letter-EN.pdf>

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:  

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than English or French, you are required
to have the [document translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Applicants should write a self-authored letter of no more than 500 words
highlighting their reasons for selecting psychiatry as a career including
personal attributes, qualities, and experiences that led to an interest and
aptitude for training in psychiatry. It would be beneficial to include an
explanation of your specific interest in the University of Manitoba program.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Optional - will be reviewed

Custom Résumé / CV

Abstract/Publications

Self-identification questionnaire

  * The University of Manitoba, Rady Faculty of Health Sciences promotes and supports a community that embraces equity, diversity and inclusion, provides for equality of opportunity and recognizes the dignity of all people. These are key values to create an inclusive community for all. The University encourages applications from Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women, persons of a minority sexual orientation and/or gender identity, and all candidates who would contribute to the diversity of our community.
  * We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self-Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete confidentiality. We are in the data collection phase currently.  Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self-identification questionnaire, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so, the information received would only be used for program selection improvement in future years. It will not be used for selection purposes this year. Any self-identification questionnaires received will NOT be reviewed as part of our file review process or used as an aid for file reviewers for the 2023 match.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025
  * January 27, 2025
  * January 28, 2025
  * January 29, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: All interviews are planned to occur on
January 22, 23, 24, 27, 28, 29, 2025.  Only virtual interviews will be
conducted.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Virtual interviews only. Interviews
will only be considered for those candidates with completed applications.
Candidates selected for interviews will be contacted by email.  
  
The selection process includes two interviews of approximately 30 minutes
each; one conducted by a committee and one by the residency program director.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates will be selected on the basis of a demonstrated interest in,
aptitude and motivation for a career in psychiatry as well as an interest in
rural practice for the Brandon/Rural Stream. Selection criteria include recent
clinical clerkship and elective experiences in psychiatry, prior residency
training in psychiatry or clinical work in the mental health field, along with
relevant life experiences. References from clinical supervisors that address
an applicants's potential for work in psychiatry are very helpful.
Demonstrated proficiency with the English language as evidenced through the
nature of undergraduate courses completed including university level English
courses, publications, the submitted personal letter are also selection
criteria. Strong interpersonal and communication skills and a demonstrated
interest and curiosity about the human experience are important criteria that
are explored in the interview process. Interest and experience in scholarly
work and research are viewed as valuable assets.

## Program goals

The five-year residency training program in Psychiatry at the University of
Manitoba is a well established, thriving and growing program designed to
produce psychiatrists with broadly based academic and clinical expertise.
Residents receive clinically based training with a focus on mastering all
aspects of psychiatric practice  including biological and psychological
therapies. The University of  Manitoba program also focusses on the care of
vulnerable and underserved populations, and exploring models to deliver
effective mental health treatment to distant areas.

## Selection process goals

Successful applicants to the residency program will demonstrate academic
excellence, excellent communication skills, and a history of advocating for
patient mental health. CVs, and application packages are reviewed to assess
these attributes and they are also assessed during the interview process. As
an aspect of our selection process, applicants learn about the unique
opportunities available at the University of Manitoba, including opportunities
to develop mental health resources and deliver care to various vulnerable
populations. The selection process is viewed as occurring collaboratively with
applicants.

## File review process

Review team composition : Invitations are determined based upon review of
submissions. A composite score is developed based on academic achievement,
demonstrated ability in communication with patients, success in clinical
rotations and psychiatry, and strong references

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  All experiences relevant to psychiatry considered   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Psychiatry electives encouraged but not mandatory   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Reviewed during file review   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Relevance to Psychiatry   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  CV is broadly considered   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Document reviewed for evidence of success   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Communication of Character Traits and Professional Achievements   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Documents considered   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Any research or publications are considered beneficial   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Reviewed during file review   
Other file component(s) |  We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self-Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete confidentiality. We are in the data collection phase currently. Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self-identification questionnaire, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so, the information received would only be used for program selection improvement in future years. It will not be used for selection purposes this year. Any self-identification questionnaires received will NOT be reviewed as part of our file review process or used as an aid for file reviewers for the 2025 match.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  First aspect of interview is a series of standardized questions
conducted in a panel  
  
Every applicant also has a separate structured interview with the program
director that also has extended opportunity to ask questions and have a
discussion about the residency program  
  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evaluated within the structured interviews   
Collegiality |  Evaluated within the structured interviews   
Communication skills |  Evaluated within the structured interviews   
Health advocacy |  Evaluated within the structured interviews   
Interest in the discipline |  Evaluated within the structured interviews   
Interest in the program |  Evaluated within the structured interviews   
Leadership skills |  Evaluated within the structured interviews   
Professionalism |  Evaluated within the structured interviews   
Scholarly activities |  Evaluated within the structured interviews   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Program Highlights

The five-year residency-training program in Psychiatry at the University of
Manitoba is a well established, thriving and growing program designed to
produce psychiatrists with broadly based academic and clinical expertise.

**The Brandon/Rural stream provides the opportunity to train in a friendly
rural city and gain a perspective of psychiatry services in rural setting
while maintaining the benefits of a connection to an urban program in terms of
elective experiences, psychotherapy supervision and academic teaching.**

We see our responsibilities as including the following:

  1. To train psychiatrists who are fully qualified to practice within the complex, changing field that is modern psychiatry.
  2. To provide a breadth of exposure and opportunity for in depth training in the many varied aspects of psychiatry appropriate to the candidate's chosen community of practice.
  3. To provide a formal education program which prepares the residents not only for success at the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons (RCPS) specialty examinations but will also fulfill the many roles of a competent physician including:

  * Medical expert/clinical decision maker
  * Communicator
  * Collaborator
  * Medical manager
  * Health Advocate
  * Scholar
  * Professional

  4. To continue to change and evolve our training program in response to the changing needs of residents, community and the specialty of psychiatry.

The program is designed to meet these objectives through several overlapping
approaches including clinical rotations, didactic seminar series,
psychotherapy training program, research, community-based experiences and
continuing education.

As our program is growing we have maintained all the advantages of a medium-
sized program.  We have all of the resources of a larger program and the
welcoming, friendly and personal atmosphere of a smaller program.  Training in
our program will leave you ready to comfortably move into your career as a
psychiatrist.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard. Curriculum

The PGY-1 year is a basic clinical training (BCT) year, designed to meet the
requirements of the Royal College and to prepare trainees for Part II of the
Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Examination (MCCQE).

There is a protected time academic half day from PGY-1 through PGY-5 when the
core academic didactic series occurs. In addition, clinical service rounds,
general departmental teaching rounds, continuous case seminars and grand
rounds are available for all residents. An ongoing interview skills and OSCE
course done by former RCPS examiners at both teaching hospitals is available
for PGY-1 to PGY-5 residents.

Residency enhancing opportunities exist in psychiatric teaching, psychiatric
research, and rural/remote clinical work.

**PGY-1**

During the second half of PGY-1 residents begin psychotherapy training
consisting of weekly psychotherapy sessions with one patient and supervision
sessions in a group format. This is incorporated into the Academic half day
and represents a unique and early exposure to psychotherapy training, which
reﬂects the department's commitment to psychotherapy training overall.

There is a weekly academic half-day (protected) which covers the areas of
pharmacology, psychopharmacology, research methodology and an introduction to
the main models and formats of psychotherapy seminars in psychiatry over the
course of the PGY-1 year. The second half of the protected academic half-day
series is clinical in nature and includes training in interview skills and
initiating an individual psychotherapy case with psychotherapy supervision
provided in a small group format. The inclusion of psychotherapy training in
the PGY-1 year represents an early exposure and reﬂects the program's
commitment to and strengths in the area of psychotherapy training.

**PGY-2**

This year is composed of two, 6-month serial blocks of adult inpatient
psychiatry and adult outpatient psychiatry. Rotations are available in Brandon
with new rotations available in both interlake Manitoba and Northern Manitoba
for interested residents. Part of the clinical experience will include
exposure to the delivery of psychiatry in more rural locations. A core seminar
series runs, in addition to the clinical service rounds, grand rounds, general
departmental teaching rounds and workshops for all residents. The core seminar
series occurs during a protected 1/2 day and covers a variety of areas
including, phenomenology diagnosis, psychotherapeutic modalities and
psychopharmacology. One individual psychotherapy supervisor is assigned at the
beginning of this year.

**PGY-3**

This year consists of two, 6-month blocks, one in each of geriatric psychiatry
and child and adolescent psychiatry. Both the six-month block of child and
adolescent psychiatry and the six-month block of geriatric psychiatry are
available in Brandon, with additional and innovative rotations utilizing
telepsychiatry and hub and spoke outreach clinics being launched with an
expected availability for the current incoming resident group. The geriatric
psychiatry rotation may be done either be done in Brandon, Winnipeg, or
Selkirk Mental Health Centre. There is a core seminar series throughout this
year, the focus of which is both child and adolescent psychiatry and geriatric
psychiatry. The seminar series is taught by the faculty members from the
sections of child and adolescent psychiatry and geriatric psychiatry. The
seminar series in PGY-3 enhances and consolidates understanding of normal and
pathological development throughout the life span. As of the PGY-3 year,
residents are assigned to two individual psychotherapy supervisors.

**PGY-4**

The PGY-4 year includes 6 months of consultation-liaison psychiatry and 6
months of chronic care. The  resident may do   the consultation-liaison
rotation at multiple potential sites, as expertise exists in Brandon,
Winnipeg, and various other hospitals. In addition there are longitudinal
experiences in Shared Care/Collaborative  Care  that  occur  throughout  the
PGY4 year. The PGY-4 academic half-day constitutes an advanced seminar series
covering the topics of object relations theory, self psychology, cognitive
behavioral therapy, advanced psychopharmacology and research issues, ethics,
palliative care and mood and anxiety disorders, professional development, oﬃce
practice, etc.

The PGY-4 academic half-day is comprised of group study time and an exam
preparation course.

**PGY-5**

The PGY-5 year consists of 6 months of elective time and 6 months of selective
training. Residents can chose from a wide variety of elective rotations. Our
program has approximately 35 diﬀerent rotational experiences available as an
elective. The Brandon/Rural resident can spend the last year in either Brandon
or Winnipeg, or another teaching site. The PGY-5 academic half-day is
comprised of group study time.

Formal psychotherapy supervision continues through the PGY2-5 years of the
program and opportunities for training in a wide variety of psychotherapeutic
modalities are signiﬁcant components of the overall program. Clinical oral
examinations are held annually for all PGY2-5 residents. Written examinations
are held at the end of each of PGY 2,3 and 4. The Department of Psychiatry
provides ﬁnancial support for residents to attend and/or present at
conferences and workshops.

The University of Manitoba Department of Psychiatry has a Royal College
accredited subspecialty residency program in Child and Adolescent Psychiatry
and Geriatric Psychiatry. It is anticipated that a subspecialty program in
Forensic Psychiatry will be developed in the near future.

**Research**

The development of resident research skills is an important focus of the
training program. All residents are provided with teaching in this area. All
residents are encouraged to participate in academic projects within the scope
of their individual interests. All residents are required to complete at least
one publishable research paper prior to the completion of PGY3. Resident
presentations at cross service rounds, departmental grand rounds and academic
meetings are an important part

There is also a Research Track available during residency with a focus on the
creation of clinician scientists. The Department of Psychiatry will provide
research track residents additional support and mentorship to foster the
development of research as a signiﬁcant component of their future career.

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

**The Brandon teaching sites include the Center for Adult Psychiatry (CAP),
the Center for Geriatric Psychiatry (CGP), and the Child and Adolescent
Treatment Center.    CAP and CGP are located at the Brandon Regional Health
Center. Residents will also participate in the Town Center Clinics and in
rural clinics when in Brandon.** The major teaching sites **in Winnipeg** are
at the PsycHealth Centre a state of the art facility at the Health Sciences
Centre, the McEwen Building at the St. Boniface General Hospital and the
Victoria General Hospital. Elective opportunities exist at the Manitoba
Adolescent Treatment Centre. Community training experiences are available at
community hospital based clinics and hospitals including the Selkirk Mental
Health Centre. Community psychiatry experiences in Northern Manitoba and the
Arctic are available through Ongomiizwin which provides for exposure to the
unique health care needs of Aboriginal and Inuit communities.



The Brandon Regional Health Center (BRHC) is the regional referral center for
Western Manitoba.

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iC_zicAp51A>

  * This facility services a referral population of approximately 180,000 and has 300+ beds. Inpatient care units include Acute Medicine, Surgery, ICU (medical/surgical), NICU, Pediatrics, Rehabilitation Medicine, Palliative Care, Waiting Placement/Supportive Care, **Adult Psychiatry, Geriatric Psychiatry and the off-campus Child and Adolescent Psychiatry.**
  * Family physicians, obstetricians and midwives provide care in the single room maternity care unit. There are about 1700 births per year.
  * There are six surgical suites, a minor procedure theatre and a theatre dedicated to obstetrics.
  * BRHC features a full range of diagnostic services including MRI, CT, Ultrasound, Nuclear Medicine, Clinical Neurophysiology and extensive lab services at the Westman Regional Laboratory.
  * BRHC outpatient care includes the emergency department that is staffed by in-house emergency physicians (CCFP and CCFP-EM physicians mainly) and is very busy with over 27,000 visits a year, the Cancer program, Day Surgery, GI Unit, Manitoba Breast Screening program, Renal/Dialysis Unit, Outpatient Care Unit and multiple outpatient care clinics such as Fracture Clinic, Ostomy Care and Stroke Prevention to name a just a few.

There are multiple learners in the Brandon Satellite program including other
residents and medical students. This enhances the learning environment and
allows the opportunity for teaching.



Brandon is a welcoming community nestled along the Assiniboine River, rich in
diverse culture and offering a metropolitan lifestyle with the charm of small-
town living. Located in the heart of Southwestern Manitoba, 200 km west of
Winnipeg

  * Population over 51,000, average age of 39
  * Affordable housing
  * Extensive retail and service sector, >2000 businesses
  * Lots of recreation facilities and events with over 90 parks, playgrounds and green spaces
  * In-city commute of 12 minutes
  * Multicultural



Additional Information:

**TRANSPORTATION**

As you will need to move frequently about the city and province between
training sites, you will need to secure a means of transportation.  You may
find it easiest to maintain a personal vehicle.

**Additional Points to Consider:**

  * Cost of living, especially rent and automobile insurance, is one of the most affordable in Canada.
  * Full access to the University of Manitoba library and its electronic resources, including UpToDate.
  * Competitive resident salaries with a solid resident contract including a well-supported maternity/paternity leave policy.  [http://www.parim.org](http://www.parim.org/)
  * Membership and registration fees are covered for University of Manitoba, College of Family Physicians and Surgeons of Manitoba, Canadian Medical Protective Association, and the initial membership in the College of Family Physicians of Canada for PGY1 year.
  * Travel costs and accommodation are provided for mandatory offsite rotations.

Brandon, Manitoba is approximately 2.5 hours west of Winnipeg by car. It is
the regional trade, education and medical service centre for some 180,000
residents of southwest Manitoba.  This is why over 100 doctors and medical
specialists call Brandon home. Brandon has a stable, strong and diverse
economy with approximately 2000 businesses that are local, national and
international in scope and range from a couple of employees to several
thousand.   The agriculture sector, oil industry, retail & service companies
along with a solid manufacturing sector keep our economy healthy. There are
eight Medical Clinics with walk-in service, 12 Dental offices and eight
Optometrist offices within the city. Daily flights from Brandon’s modern and
spacious airport to Calgary, Alberta via WestJet allows direct access to an
international airport; Brandon airport is a 15-minute drive from the centre of
the City and offers free parking. Brandon also offers an [air
shuttle](https://brandonairshuttle.com/) service to Winnipeg International
Airport.

**Housing:**

The housing market has always remained very stable in Brandon; the average
price of a house in 2021 was $303,431 ([Housing
Resources](http://economicdevelopmentbrandon.com/housing-resources)). All the
housing neighborhoods include green space, trees and parks. Brandon Area
Realtors website includes listings for all the real estate agents within the
city: [brandonarearealtors.ca](https://brandonarearealtors.ca/)

The average rent for a two-bedroom apartment in Brandon in 2021 was $971 plus
utilities based on data from Canada Housing and Mortgage Corporation.

There are many options for apartments; fueled by new construction throughout
the city including the conversion of downtown historic buildings into unique
living space such as the Prairie Lofts project. Resources for finding rental
properties in Brandon are available at [Rental
Property](https://ebrandon.ca/browseads.aspx?cat_id=71).

**Recreation & Leisure:**

**Food**

  * Breakfast = Mum’s, Komfort Kitchen (Amazing Sunday Buffet), Lady of the Lake, The Eagles Nest Bar & Grill
  * Lunch = Lady of the Lake
  * Dinner = Brown’s Social House, The Keg
  * Baked Goods = Chez Angela Bakery, Blue Hills Bakery & Deli, Kuiper’s Family Bakery
  * Pub = The Dock on Princess, Little Bones Wings, Double Decker, Joe Beeverz, Tavern United, The Eagles Nest Bar & Grill
  * Craft Beer: Black Wheat Brewing, Section 6 Brewing Co.
  * Indian = Chili Chutney
  * Pakistan = Khan Foods
  * Mexican = Los Brothers Tacos Food Truck, Mariachi Mexican Tacos & Cantina
  * South American = Sabor Latino, Pupuseria La Bendición de Dios
  * Ethiopian = Tana Ethiopian Cuisine
  * Chinese, Vietnamese, Thai = Kim’s Asian Restaurant
  * Japanese = Kim’s Asian Restaurant, Sushi Hut
  * Filipino = Robyn’s Lechon
  * Middle Eastern = Shawarma Queen, Khan Foods, BabaKadir Shawarma Restaurant
  * Pizza = Pizza Express, Marino’s Pizza, Little Italy
  * Ice Cream = Velvet Dip, Tastees Ice Cream & Grill
  * Great local coffee shops: H Coffee for amazing 3rd wave coffee and espresso, Forbidden Flavours & Coffee Culture
  * [Annual Burger Week](https://www.brandonsun.com/surveys/Brandon-Sun-Burger-Brawl-2021-575621031.html) competition between local restaurants
  * Annual Food Truck Warz
  * Manitoba Institute of Culinary Arts
    * Annual Grey Owl Restaurant  <https://assiniboine.net/community/news-events/events-mica/great-grey-owl-restaurant>
    * International Wine & Food Festival  <https://assiniboine.net/community/news-events/events-mica/international-wine-food-festival>

 **Fitness**

  * Brandon University’s Healthy Living Centre offers UofM residents special membership rates
  * Goodlife, YMCA, Anytime fitness offer opportunities for membership in Brandon and Winnipeg
  * Local facilities include Frederickson Performance Centre, Outperform, Peak Performance & Athletics Centre
  * Yoga = Brandon City Yoga, The Zen Zone, Open Hearts Wellness
  * Crossfit = Rocked Community Fitness, Power Play CrossFit
  * Indoor Cycling = Tour Fit Club
  * Hiking at the Brandon Hills just south of the city or at The Discovery Centre
  * Mountain biking at the Brandon Hills just south of the city
  * Skiing and snowboarding = Travel 2 hours north to Aessessipi Ski Resort to ski or snowboard on the best mountains in the province
  * Canoeing and Kayaking = Travel 1 hour north to Riding Mountain National Park
  * Two indoor public swimming pools
  * Outdoor rubber running track at the Sportsplex
  * Walking/biking path that encompasses the entire city
  * Outdoor fitness equipment along the walking/biking paths within the city and at Riverbank Discovery Centre

 **Entertainment**

  * WHL Hockey team – [Brandon Wheat Kings](https://wheatkings.com/)
  * [The Keystone Centre](https://keystonecentre.com/) – over 10 acres of convention, entertainment, agricultural and recreation complex & home ice to the Wheat Kings, all found under one roof
  * [Westman Centennial Auditorium](http://www.wmca.ca/)– including performances such as Winnipeg Ballet, concerts, plays, etc
  * Checkout the latest movies at Landmark Cinemas 9 Brandon
  * 5 golf courses in Brandon and 16 more within a 1 hour drive of Brandon
  * [Riverbank Discovery Centre](https://riverbank.mb.ca/) / [Brandon Tourism](https://brandontourism.com/) located beside the Assiniboine river which runs 17 km throughout the City and home to Festival Park and natural walking trails.
  * [Brandon University Bobcats](https://gobobcats.ca/)– Basketball and Volleyball
  * [Public Library](https://wmrl.ca/locations-hours/brandon-public-library/) & [Art Gallery of Southwestern Manitoba](https://agsm.ca/)\- presents national and international exhibitions and works by regional artists
  * Community theatre groups, recreational sports leagues, hobby groups, supports groups and not for profit’s can be found in the [Community Contact List](http://www.economicdevelopmentbrandon.com/contacts/). Recreational sports groups include baseball, volleyball, basketball, racquetball, golf, tennis, martial arts, boxing, running, biking, extreme frisbee, etc.
  * Bowling, billiards, darts, and arcade games at T-Birds
  * [Brandon University School of Music](https://www.brandonu.ca/music/)

 **Nearby Provincial Parks**

  * Travel 1 hour north to Clear Lake in Riding Mountain National Park

    * Visit the Whitehouse Bakery for the world’s best cinnamon buns
    * Amazing Italian food at TR McKoy’s Italian Restaurant
    * Rent a kayak or canoe for the day
    * Go to the spa at Elkhorn Resort Spa & Conference Centre
    * Get ice cream at The Boardwalk on Clear Lake
    * Enjoy a drink with pizza at the Canoe Taphouse or The Foxtail
    * Stop by Beaver Tails and grab a bite
    * Travel 1 hour south to Turtle Mountain Provincial Park
    * Enjoy fishing, boating and water sports at Rivers Provincial Park, 30 minutes northwest of Brandon
    * 30 minutes east of Brandon will find you at Spruce Woods Provincial Park, featuring Spirit Sands and the Devil’s Punch Bowl – Manitoba’s desert
    * Spend some time at the International Peace Gardens at the Canada/US border
    * Brandon’s online [photo/video library](http://economicdevelopmentbrandon.com/photos-and-videos)
    * Fishing, boating and water sports
    * [Community Gardens](https://www.brandon.ca/community-gardens/city-of-brandon-gardens) \- there are 17 Community Gardens throughout the city

 **For Kids**

  * Brandon has over 30 registered Child Care Facilities as well as licensed & unlicensed private in-home child care, over 90 parks, playgrounds and green spaces, 3 leash free dog parks, 1 outdoor pool, 2 indoor pools, 5 outdoor water/spray parks, outdoor & indoor public skating, tobogganing hills and 44 km’s of walking, biking & hiking trails with outdoor fitness equipment located throughout the city.  [Provincial Online Child Care Information](https://www.gov.mb.ca/education/childcare/)

**Education, Training & Faith:**

  * [Brandon School Division](https://www.bsd.ca/) encompasses 22 schools including elementary, middle years and high schools with a 23rd elementary school currently under construction. The school division offers an Advanced Placement Program as well as French Immersion and a faith-based school.
  * [Christian Heritage School](https://www.chsbrandon.ca/) is an independent Christian school offering classes from Kindergarten to grade eight. The curriculum is consistent with the Department of Education standards.
  * [Brandon University](https://www.brandonu.ca/music/) \- significant reputation in music, general arts and science programs. Undergraduate degrees in Arts, Science, Music, Education, Business Administration, Fine Arts, Nursing, Psychiatric Nursing, and First Nations and Aboriginal Counseling. The University also features graduate degrees in Psychiatric Nursing, Music, Rural Development and Education, as well as pre-professional programs in 19 areas ranging from agriculture to veterinary medicine. Brandon University is also home to the innovative Applied Disaster and Emergency Studies program – the first program of its kind in the country. Average annual enrollment of over 3500 students.
  * [Assiniboine Community College](https://assiniboine.net/) \- has two locations in Brandon and additional campuses in Dauphin and Winnipeg, and offers over 40 unique programs in the fields of agriculture, environment, business, health and human services, food and hospitality, trades and technology with over 500 full-time and part-time employees and an average annual full-time enrollment over 3,600 including apprenticeships at the two Brandon campuses.
  * [The Manitoba Emergency Services College ](https://firecomm.gov.mb.ca/mesc.html)– 37-40 full time enrollment and over 2200 continuing education enrollment each year.
  * There are over 40 [Places of Worship](http://economicdevelopmentbrandon.com/places-of-worship) in many different denominations

**Annual Events include:**

  * Burger Brawl – Local restaurants compete for the best burger over 1 month
  * Food Truck Warz
  * The Pavilions – Annual multicultural festival of food and entertainment
  * Assiniboine Community College Annual Food Events - Harvest on the Hill, Holiday Buffet, Great Grey Owl Restaurant, International Wine & Food Festival
  * Westman Wine Festival
  * Manitoba Summer Fair
  * Fall Fair
  * Royal Manitoba Winter Fair
  * Ag Days
  * Westman Multicultural Festival
  * Canadian National Arabian and Half Arabian Horse Show
  * Cruisin’ the Dub (downtown car show)
  * Brandon Folk Music Festival
  * Brandon Jazz Festival
  * Dakota Nation Winterfest.

For more information on Brandon, visit the following websites.

[Economic Development Brandon](http://www.economicdevelopmentbrandon.com/)

[City of Brandon](https://www.brandon.ca/)  

[Prairie Mountain Health](https://www.prairiemountainhealth.ca/)

[Brandon Tourism](https://brandontourism.com/)  

[Brandon Arts/Culture &
Recreation](http://economicdevelopmentbrandon.com/arts-culture-recreation)

[Tourism Westman](https://www.tourismwestman.ca/)



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26414?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26414