#  Université de Montréal - Cardiac Surgery - Montreal  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Regular Stream for All  

##  Last approved on August 28, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Marina Ibrahim  

Address Département de chirurgie cardiaque  
Institut de Cardiologie de Montréal  
5000 Bélanger Est  
Montréal, Quebec, H1T 1C8  

Work  514 376-3330, poste 3720

Fax

Websites of Interest

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: Personne contact

Name: Mme Martine Beauséjour

Title: Secrétaire du programme d'entraînement en chirurgie cardiaque

Email: martine.beausejour@icm-mhi.org

  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

Examinations

Conditionally required

MCCQE Part II

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part II - Statement of Results

Le EACMC, partie 2 peut être utilisé pour postuler au Québec à la place de
l’examen de la CNE.

Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Les lettres de recommandation doivent etre presentees au dossier afin de
supporter la candidature.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

Le candidat doit soumettre une lettre expliquant sa motivation à appliquer au
programme de chirurgie cardiaque.

Additional required IMG documents

Medical School Diploma

Lettre de reconnaissance de l'équivalence du diplôme MD

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process:

    
    
    Des entretiens d'environ 30 minutes seront organises pour chaque candidat dont le dossier academique est juge excellent apres   
    evaluation par les membres du comite d'admission du programme. Ces entrevues se derouleront, conformement aux   
    directives nationales communes du CaRMS et de l'AFMC, exceptionnellement, pour le jumelage R1 2021 de maniere virtuelle.  
    



* * *

# Selection Criteria

The selection is based on the quality of the academic portfolio. The high
level of the application file and the quality of the reference letters are the
most important aspect of the application. The interview is used to re-evaluate
the strength and weaknesses noted in the application file with the applicant
in comparison with the application file from other candidates. The candidate
should demonstrate a keen interest for cardiac surgery and the academic life
(research, teaching,...). A previous cardiac surgery rotation is very well
regarded. A practical knowledge of the French language is mandatory.

## Program goals

The department of surgery at the universite de Montreal, and the cardiac
surgery training program, are engaged in a selection process that is fair,
equitable and transparent. The chosen  resident must demonstrate exceptionnal
interpersonal and clinical skills, with a excellent academic portefolio.
Experience in research is strongly recommended. He will become an active
member of our cardiac surgery division and of the department of surgery at the
universite de Montreal, that will be demonstrated by an active participation
in th various research and teaching activities offered. Furthermore, the
ability to work as a team is essential.

## Selection process goals

Identify candidates who have demonstrated the ability to interact
appropriately with patients and colleagues.

Identify candidates who have demonstrated the technical skills necessary for
successful completion of the cardiac surgery training programm and career

Identify the interest of candidates for cardiac surgery and the academic life,
and those who will have a succesfull career in cardiac surgery

Identify candidates who have demonstrated the attributes identified in the
CanMEDS 2015 roles.

Identify candidates who have demonstrated the ability and enthusiasm to learn
and adapt to the different demands of cardiac surgery training

## File review process

Review team composition : The review comite is composed of the program
director, one representant of each training center of cardiac surgery at the
university of Montreal (the program director is the representant of his
center) and one resident.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Interest in cardiac surgery and research   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Interest for cardiac surgery   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  criteria not assessed   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering and mentorship activities   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Implication in the academic or community organisation   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstration of interpersonal skills   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest for the field of cardiac surgery and its reality   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Marked interest for cardiac surgery and research   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest for research   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic excellence   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Recognition of teamwork   
Collegiality |  Behavior, attitude and ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak and write in french   
Health advocacy |  Reconnaissance de l’importance de la prévention en santé cardiovasculaire   
Interest in the discipline |  Marked interest for the field of cardiac surgery   
Interest in the program |  Interest for the program of cardiac surgery   
Leadership skills |  Involvement in the organization of patient services or student education   
Professionalism |  Recognized professionalism in interactions with colleagues and patients   
Scholarly activities |  Excellent academic results   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 6 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

1st and second years:

Surgical main trunk of Université de Montréal with rotations focused on
cardiology , general surgery, intensive care unit and adult cardiac surgery

3 rd year: Transeosophageal echographs (1 period), adult cardiac surgery (9
periods) and thoracic surgery (3 periods)

4 th year: Pediatric (3 periods) and adult cardiac surgery (10 periods)

5 th year: Angiography and endovascular therapy (3 periods), TAVR (3 periods),
Circulatory support and transplantation (2 periods) and adult cardiac surgery
(5 periods)

6th year: Adult cardiac surgery (13 periods)

This training will allow the acquisition of a broad span of surgical skills,
covering congenital, complex valvular, myocardial revascularisation and aortic
surgery as well as mechanical support and heart transplantation.

* * *

# Training Sites

Rotation sites  

-Institut de Cardiologie de Montréal

-CHUM

-CHU Sainte-Justine

-Hôpital du Sacré-Coeur de Montréal

The training program is based on the great variety and high volume of cardiac
surgical procedures (mainly at the Montréal Heart Institute). There is a
strong formal teaching program (full day, bi-weekly) with wet labs, regular
journal clubs and hands-on perfusion experiments. Research is very active both
clinical and fundammental.

* * *

# FAQ

How good should my French be to apply?  Candidates must have a **working
knowledge** of the **French** language.





Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26947?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26947