#  University of British Columbia - Neurosurgery - Vancouver  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Competitive RoS Stream for All  

##  Last approved on December 11, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Ash Singhal  

Address Neurosurgery  
11115-2775 Laurel Street  
Vancouver, British Columbia, V5Z 1M6  

Work  604-875-4111 ex23119

Websites of Interest [ UBC Division of Neurosurgery
](https://neurosurgery.med.ubc.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: Program Administrator

Name: Sachiyo Kaneko

Title: Program Administrator

Email: sachiyo.kaneko@ubc.ca

Phone: 604-875-4111 ex23119

  

* * *

# Important Information

Candidates accepted to the Return of Service (RoS) stream at UBC Neurosurgery
will have the same training, rights, responsibilities, and salary and benefits
as CMG stream residents. There will be no difference in the residency
experience between the CMG stream and the RoS stream.  We encourage all
Canadian Medical Graduates to apply for both our positions.



Both Canadian Medical Graduates and International Medical Graduates (who meet
CARMS eligibility criteria) can apply for the RoS stream and will be assessed
equally through the standard CARMS process (applications, interview selection,
rank list).  Candidates who apply for both the CMG stream and the RoS stream
will be considered and ranked for both positions.



We encourage applications from non-CMG candidates with an established interest
in  Neurosurgical training and career paths.









* * *

# Return of Service

The Competitive Stream is subject to a Return of Service (ROS). Successfully
matched applicants are required to sign a contract with the Ministry of Health
as a condition of accepting a medical residency position. Templates of the ROS
contract and allocation details can be reviewed on the MOH ROS website here:
[Competitive Stream (Medical Residency
Stream)](https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content?id=91E6BE5924ED4D80BB8FBB0094900CD5
"Competitive Stream \(Medical Residency Stream\)")

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

** **



* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG applicants:**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



**IMG applicants:**

IMG applicants need not provide evidence of English language testing if the
primary language of medical education or patient care was in English. If the
primary language of medical education or patient care was NOT in English then
applicants must fulfill the English language proficiency requirements by the
start of Ranking Period.



See CPSBC English Language Proficiency Requirements here for more information:
<https://www.cpsbc.ca/files/pdf/REG-ELP.pdf>

Examinations

Additional required IMG documents

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

Not applicable for CMG applicants.

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

Not applicable for CMG applicants.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Clinical references carry more weight if written by someone known to the
Division of Neurosurgery in UBC, or by someone who has significant exposure to
the applicant. Reference letters will not be accepted after the CaRMS
reference letter deadline.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:  

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than English or French, you are required
to have the [document translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Your autobiographical letter should answer the following questions: - Why are
you interested in this specialty and in training at the University of British
Columbia? - What are your objectives for a career? - What things indicate you
have the technical aptitudes to be a surgeon? - What is your perception of the
requirements of residency and the demands of neurosurgical practice? - What
non-medical interests and hobbies do you have?

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

used for memory aid

Optional - will be reviewed

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interview Date: January 15, 2024  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Following evaluation of the
application and accompanying letters of reference, a short list is created.
Acceptable candidates will be required to present themselves at a formal
interview process, conducted by select members of the faculty and residents.
Telephone interviews will not be acceptable.  
  
There will be three interviews per candidate, each one approximately 45
minutes. Each session will be conducted by 2-3 members of the interviewing
team.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Academic record which demonstrates interest and proficiency in subjects
related to the specialty.

Some references should be obtained from academic specialists in the specialty
or allied areas. Reference should attest to interest and proficiency in
knowledge and clinical skills related to the specialty, as well as comments on
motivation, empathy, interpersonal skills, and technical aptitudes.

## Program goals

The Neurosurgery Residency training program at the University of British
Columbia is dedicated to the comprehensive training and development of the
next generation of leaders in all areas of neurosurgery. This encompasses
emphasis on clinical excellence in both knowledge and technical skills as well
as scholarship, leadership, advocacy and teaching. We strive to train
clinically superior surgeons. We strive to equip our graduates with the
academic, leadership andteaching skills to be positioned to advance all
spheres of our field over the course of their careers. We believe that
regardless of the future career path of our trainees, all trainees must be
fully equipped to practice in all areas of clinical neurosurgery. Residents in
our program are expected to demonstrate clinical and academic excellence,
exceptional interpersonal and teamwork skills, contribute to the advancement
of knowledge in the field, and have sense of responsibility and dedication to
the profession. Residents are expected to be active community members and
demonstrate balance in life as evidenced by engagement in volunteer,
extracurricular or other types of activities.

## Selection process goals

A successful applicant to the neurosurgical program at the University of
British Columbia will have demonstrated a keen interest in pursing a career in
neurosurgery have the traits necessary to develop into an excellent
neurosurgeon. They will have demonstrated the ability to work effectively and
professionally as a member of the healthcare team and interact well with
patients and their families. They will have demonstrated maturity and skill in
all the intrinsic roles outlined in the CanMEDS 2015 project (Medical Expert,
Communicator, Leader, Collaborator, Health Advocate, Scholar and
Professional). They will have demonstrated the ability and enthusiasm to learn
and to adapt to the various demands of residency training. They will have
shown an interest in service their patient populations.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team consists of the program director, 5
other members of the faculty and 2 senior residents

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
Actual average number of applications in the last 5 years: 26

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Demonstration of well rounded individual and/or excellence in a given area   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Sufficient neurosurgery electives demonstrating understanding of the speciality   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Demonstration of well rounded individual and/or excellence in a given area   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Valued   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstration of aptitude to pursue career in neurosurgery - CanMEDS roles   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstration and explanation of path leading to commitment to neurosurgery and   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Demonstration of aptitude to pursue career in neurosurgery - CanMEDS roles   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Demonstration of commitment to advancing science and some research in neurosurgery   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Demonstration of academic excellence   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We prefer applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Demonstration of an understanding of the rigors of neurosurgery training and
practice and a commitment to a career in neurosurgery through completion a
reasonable number of neurosurgery electives is important

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work effectively with faculty, residents, rest of healthcare team and patients   
Collegiality |  Ability to get along well with colleagues and rest of healthcare team   
Communication skills |  Excellence in all forms of communication (verbal and non-verbal) in English   
Health advocacy |  Good understanding of underlying determinants of health in neurosurgical patients   
Interest in the discipline |  Good understanding of rigors of neurosurgery and commitment to pursuit of the career   
Interest in the program |  Knowledge of the program and its culture and ability to integrate within it   
Leadership skills |  Ability to initiate programs, lead organizations or groups, and make an impact   
Professionalism |  Maintaining a hight degree of professionalism throughout all interactions   
Scholarly activities |  Academic excellence, knowledge and commitment to advancement of knowledge in our field   
Other interview component(s) |  Technical abilities/manual dexterity may be assessed   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  Candidate is not felt to be a fit for training within our program  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 6 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

PGY-1 & 2 (surgical foundation)  
  

The first two years of training fall under the Royal College Surgical
Foundation guidelines. Rotations are tailored to the resident’s needs and
goals, and generally include non-neurosurgery (off-service) rotations in other
specialties with options such as ENT / Plastics / Orthopedics / Trauma surgery
Vascular surgery, emergency medicine, ICU, and Neurology.  The resident
rotates multiple times with the Adult Intracranial Neurosurgery and Spinal
Neurosurgery services during this period. There are weekly core surgery
lecture series and a 4 week dedicated "CRASH" course to aid in the integration
into surgical residency and also preparation for the Surgical Foundations
Examination.

PGY-3 to 6  
  

The total amount of clinical neurosurgical training required by the Royal
College is a minimum of 42 blocks of approved resident training in
neurosurgery with progressively increasing responsibility for patient care.
Included in the 42 blocks of clinical neurosurgery are 6 blocks of pediatric
neurosurgery, 9 blocks on the combined neurosurgery and orthopedic spine
service and 6 blocks of community neurosurgery. Other rotations include 3
blocks of neuropathology, and 3 blocks of neuroradiology.

Further training may also include further approved residency training in
neurosurgery (including pediatric neurosurgery, spine or community
neurosurgery), clinical or basic research, other approved training or research
relevant to the field of neurosurgery, desired by the resident and approved by
the program director.

To allow broad experience, several specific rotations may be arranged where
needed or requested, such as: additional adult neurosurgery may be done in a
community /rural private practice; option of additional spine program
experience; additional neuroradiology; 1 or more years of research in an
approved neurosurgical or related laboratory; and an elective period of
training approved by the program director and head of division. The resident
is responsible for patient care activities under supervision, progress
according to his/her increasing capabilities and is exposed to an extensive
operating experience.

  
  

Seminars  
  

The teaching activities center around a weekly academic day with formal
academic presentations, case presentations, correlative rounds (neurosurgery,
neuroradiology, neuropathology), quality assurance ward audit, and topical
seminar sessions. In addition there are research rounds and journal clubs.  In
addition to the clinical based training, the resident has opportunity to
attend several courses which may include the University of Calgary Spine
Course, the University of Toronto Microsurgical Course, ATLS training, and
various courses associated with neurosurgical meetings depending on the
resident's career goals and on approval by the program director. Residents are
also expected to attend Resident Boot Camp, as well as cadaver dissection
sessions at the VGH Simulation Centre at Vancouver General Hospital.

  
  

Research  
  

Basic science research is encouraged but not a requirement. A supervised
annual clinical research project is expected in PGY2 and above residents.
Residents are expected to present their projects at the annual resident
research day and submit their papers to the annual BC Neuroscience day. Trips
to present papers at major neurosurgical North American meetings are funded by
the division. The division has a full-time reseach coordinator that residents
have access to far helping research-ethics, submissions, interactive review,
statistics, funding applications, etc.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

Training occurs at the following institutions: Vancouver General Hospital and
Health Sciences Centre, BC Children's Hospital, Victoria General Hospital,
Lions Gate Hospital. There are no mandatory rural rotations.

* * *

# Additional Information

Quick Facts

Currently there are 7 residents enrolled in The University of British Columbia
Division of Neurosurgery training program, and 37 faculty members all over the
province. There are over 2,000 cranial cases, 2,000 spinal cases, and over 300
paediatric cases performed in the main training hospitals (1,200+ cranial and
1,000+ spinal cases at Vancouver General Hospital). 3,300+ admissions and
7,000+ clinic visits per year.

Vancouver Hospital Health Sciences Center is the largest hospital network
(>1,900 beds) and the Vancouver General Hospital is the largest single acute
care hospital in Canada (>955 beds). BC Children’s Hospital is the largest
Pediatric Health Care Center in Western Canada, and consistently ranks amongst
the top Children’s Hospitals in the world.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26314?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26314