#  University of Calgary - Cardiac Surgery - Calgary  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 05, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Daniel Holloway  

Address Cardiac Sciences  
Foothills Hospital  
880, 1403 29 th St NW  
CALGARY , Alberta, T2N 2T9  

Work  403-944-2011

Websites of Interest [ Cardiac Surgery Training Program, Calgary
](https://live-libin.ucalgary.ca/departments/cardiac-sciences/education)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Samantha Lam

Title: Program Administrator

Email: samantha.lam4@albertahealthservices.ca

Phone: 403-944-2011

  

Name: Dr.Daniel Holloway

Title: Program Director

Email: daniel.holloway@ahs.ca

Phone: 403-944-2011

  

* * *

# Important Information

Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada: Applying competency-based
practices to residency education

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called Competence by Design
(CBD), aims to enhance patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong
learning with evolving patient needs and empowering learners to more fully
engage in their education process.

CBD will use time as a framework rather than the basis for progression. It is
not anticipated that the duration of training will change for the majority of
trainees. Residency programs will be broken down into stages, and each stage
will have a series of milestones based on required competencies. These
milestones will create more targeted learning outcomes and involve more
frequent, formative assessments within the clinical workplace to ensure
residents are developing and receiving feedback on the skills they need.

The Royal College anticipates that all specialty and subspecialty programs in
Canada will adopt CBD in gradual phases. All disciplines have been divided
into seven cohort groups, each of which will adopt CBD at different times. The
Cardiac Surgery Residency Program formally started CBD in 2020.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and
traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification. Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs
will include the completion of a Royal College examination; however, residents
in CBD programs will also be assessed against program milestones throughout
their training. Within a CBD program, all milestones (documented within an
electronic portfolio) and the Royal College examination must be successfully
completed to achieve certification.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Supporting letters from three faculty members are required.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

A personal letter is required outlining pertinent personal and academic
history, reasons for choosing the specialty of cardiac surgery and future
career goals.(maxium word count of 750 words)

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All successful candidates will be contacted via email. Successfull candidates
will also receive a formal information package by mail.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 26, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Virtual interviews will be held on January
26, 2025. Candidates will participate in large group interviews.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The interview date will consist of
candidates being interviewed virtually by faculty and residents.It all will be
via Zoom and links will be provided in the invite.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

-Superior academic standing

-Demonstrated potential in acquiring surgical technical skills

-Demonstrated a strong interest in cardiac surgery with electives completed in cardiac surgery and supporting reference letters

-Well rounded individual who is team oriented

## Program goals

Calgary Cardiac Surgery overarching program goals and vision include:

  * To diagnose and treat diseases of the cardiovascular system and to provide exemplary patient care
  * To train residents in a stimulating and challenging educational program
  * To maintain excellence in patient care, education, research, and to foster a lasting desire for self-improvement with ongoing educational activities
  * Our goal is to match top medical graduates and produce superb Cardiac Surgeons
  * The Residency Training Program will provide an environment for best clinical teaching and experience for all post-graduate and undergraduate students
  * The Residency Program embraces the RCPSC CanMED competencies

## Selection process goals

The applicant demonstrates an excellence in patient care, education, and
research.

The applicant demonstrates confidence and humility, compassion, strong work
ethic and is team-oriented.

The applicant demonstrates strong technical skills on rotation

The applicant demonstrates professionalism reflective of character

The applicant embraces the CanMED competencies and it is reflective in their
conduct

## File review process

Review team composition : Section of Cardiac Surgery  
Chief Resident and Resident members of RPC

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Publications, work/volunteer history, well rounded   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Electives in cardiac surgery are valued. Applicants must have a well-developed understanding of what it entails to pursue a career in cardiac surgery.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Interests outside of medicine   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Professionalism, team player, confidence and humility   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  No red flags   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Reflective of work, character and accomplishments. What qualifies you for this opportunity   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Technical Skills, leadership qualities, teaching and mentorship, personal characteristics   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  At least one is listed   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic excellence   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Works effectively with others   
Collegiality |  Works well within their own team and other health care professionals   
Communication skills |  Facilitates communication and is an active listener   
Health advocacy |  wellness overall   
Interest in the discipline |  Has a passion for cardiac surgery   
Interest in the program |  Knowledge of the training program and the department of cardiac sciences   
Leadership skills |  Qualities in leadership including teaching and metorship   
Professionalism |  Confidence and humility   
Scholarly activities |  teaching, mentorship and contributing to scholarship   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Our training program is 6 years with an academic enrichment year that is
flexible in timing and content. More than 1700 adult cardiac operations per
year are performed in Calgary.  With high surgical volumes, residents receive
excellent exposure to the surgical and clinical care of patients. Residents
also receive training in specialized procedures such as minimally invasive
cardiac surgery, TAVI, TEVAR, mechanical circulatory support, and complex
aortic surgery. Exposure and experience in Congenital Cardiac Surgery and
Transplant is obtained at the University of Alberta during a 3 block senior
resident rotation.



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 6 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

This six year residency program is designed to fulfill the training
requirements of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada for
examination and certification in cardiac surgery.

The first two years consist of core training and exposure to the basics of
surgery and involve various disciplines. In addition to Surgical Foundations,
which follows CBD and is completed in conjunction with their home program,
rotations are designed to provide the cardiac resident a strong foundation in
surgical skills as well as the objectives of training set out by the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.  Residents receive training in
cardiac surgery, vascular surgery, critical care, general cardiology, CCU,
cath-lab, and heart failure.

The senior years are customized to strengthen the individual resident's skills
and interests and include senior rotations in both vascular and thoracic
surgery, 3 blocks of pediatric cardiac surgery and 18 blocks of adult cardiac
surgery.

The Calgary Cardiac Surgery Program also has an academic enrichment year which
can be spent in basic science research, administration education and
innovation programs or in a focused clinical area.  It can take place within
the University of Calgary or elsewhere at an institution of your choice at the
discretion of the program director and the residency training committee.  The
academic enrichment year that can be taken in PGY years 3 or 4 with additional
time off service supported for the completion of a Masters or PhD in a
discipline related to their specialty or subspecialty training.

The Calgary Cardiac Surgery Program also has an extensive academic curriculum.
Weekly cardiac surgery rounds, combined with journal clubs, and our academic
1/2 day consists of seminar series and didactic teaching sessions which covers
the spectrum of adult cardiac surgery including coronary artery bypass
grafting, valves, thoracic aorta, heart failure, transplant,
electrophysiology, imaging and congenital defects a well as wet and dry labs
including a transplant simulation lab.  A faculty wide core curriculum also
provides teaching in surgical skills, principles of surgery, bioethics,
medical legal affairs, critical appraisal, communication skills and practice
management.

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

The University of Calgary provides residency training in adult cardiac surgery
at the Foothills Hospital.  Vascular surgery training is provided at the Peter
Lougheed Hospital in Calgary. Pediatric cardiac surgery and cardiac
transplantation training is provided at the University of Alberta in Edmonton
through a Royal College approved Inter-University Affiliation Agreement

* * *

# Additional Information

Our program is proud of its strong cohesive environment.  We have strong
administrative support.  Operating experience, teaching and graded
professional responsibility are exemplary.  Academic teaching at 1/2 days,
journal clubs, grand rounds, and visiting speaker at yearly events are
supported and well attended.

* * *

# FAQ

Where can I get more information about the training program?



The program will host a virtual "Open House" for prospective applicants.  The
program director and residents will be available to answer questions.  Contact
the program administrator for the date.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26934?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26934