#  University of Toronto - Internal Medicine - Toronto

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on September 09, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 12

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Rodrigo Cavalcanti  

Address Department of Medicine, University of Toronto  
C. David Naylor Building  
6 Queen’s Park Cres, Third Floor  
Toronto, Ontario, M5S 3H2  

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Internal Medicine Program, University of Toronto
](https://www.deptmedicine.utoronto.ca/internal-medicine-core-residency-
program)  
[ Department of Medicine, University of Toronto
](http://www.deptmedicine.utoronto.ca/)  
[ Post-Graduate Medical Education, University of Toronto
](http://pg.postmd.utoronto.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Core IM Team

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: core.medicine@utoronto.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion**  
All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of the
University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

  
**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)  
** The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.  
  
_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

####  

The Internal Medicine (Core) Program at the University of Toronto is committed
to providing our residents with the best possible training experience in order
to foster their growth into future internists who are excellent patient-
centered clinicians, and leaders in social accountability and resource
stewardship.

The Program embraces the Departmental strategic commitment of promoting equity
and diversity.

Virtual townhalls are available for applicants to register and participate in.
The Program Director and Chief Medical Residents will provide highlights and
answer general questions about the program followed by an open Q&A session
with current Internal Medicine residents who can offer a resident’s
perspective on the program and living in Toronto. Information about the four
Townhalls will be posted on the [CanPrepp platform event
calendar](https://www.canprepp.ca/).

* * *

# Return of Service

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

The Internal Medicine program is a three-year specialty program for those who
intend to complete Post-graduate Year 4/ PGY5/ PGY6 subspecialty training. The
program supports a fourth year of Internal Medicine training for residents,
when required. We have approximately 65-70 residents in each of the PGY1-3
years.

Individuals applying to the Internal Medicine Program at the University of
Toronto must have successfully completed their medical school training by June
30, 2025 for the current CaRMS cycle.

It is the applicant's responsibility to ensure all required forms are
completed correctly and all supporting documentation is submitted
before**November 29, 2024  at 12:00 EST, **as this is when the CaRMS Online
Application site closes.  Incomplete or late applications will not be
considered.

We receive approximately 750 applications, of which approximately 40
applicants will be offered an interview. The process is highly competitive.
Due to limitations in available positions, it is recognized that some
qualified applicants will not be offered interviews and/or positions.





In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Language assessment document accepted:  **TOEFL-iBT

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:**  7 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Occupational English Test (OET)
-Medicine

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum score of 9 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Letter of language proficiency*

*Alternatively, candidates can submit a printout from the [World Directory of Medical Schools](http://www.wdoms.org/) which clearly states that the language of instruction is English or French.

The **IELTS Indicator**  will be accepted as a substitute for the Academic
Version of the IELTS.

The **TOEFL iBT Home Edition**  will be accepted as a substitute for the TOEFL
iBT.

Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site. Please
review specific program descriptions for more information.

Examinations

Required

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

  * **Date/milestone assessment submission required:  **File review opening
  * **Requirement:  **Mandatory with exceptions*

* MCCQE part II can be used to apply instead of the NAC

For more information on the NAC OSCE click on the following link [National Assessment Collaboration | Medical Council of Canada](http://mcc.ca/examinations/nac-overview/)

**Feedback reports are considered in a competitive manner and will be ranked
against other candidates applying to the program this year (not merely pass or
fail).  **

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

  * **Date/milestone assessment submission required:**  File review opening
  * **Requirement:  **Mandatory

For more information on the MCCQE Part 1 click on the following link
<https://www.mcc.ca/examinations/mccqe-part-i/>

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

**Letter of Reference:**

**Please submit three (3) letters of reference** that speak to your clinical
accomplishments, your ability to function as part of a clinical team
(interpersonal and communication skills), your work ethic, and your
interactions/relationships with patients and their families. We prefer that
one of the letters be from a CTU (clinical training unit) supervisor or, if
not available, a GIM Hospitalist experience. If you have not had CTU
experience in your training, then please indicate this in your Personal
Letter.

If possible one or more letters from a faculty member in Internal Medicine is
helpful but not required.

**Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the
program. No other documents submitted will be reviewed.**

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

Please describe why you are interested in Internal Medicine and how this
training program would play a role in your future career aspirations. What
makes you an excellent candidate for this program? Your personal letter is an
opportunity to speak to some of the following: your professional motivations
and ambitions; your leadership, interpersonal and communication skills; your
connections with patients and their caregivers; any advocacy work you
participate in, and how your lived experience (“distance travelled”) has
impacted your vision of medicine and career plans; and/or how the COVID-19
pandemic has affected your training (core rotations and electives). Maximum
word count 1000 words.  
  

_Important Note: Please address any gaps in training or remediation periods in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count._

Custom Résumé / CV

The Resume/ Curriculum Vitae should include relevant information such as
education, certification, employment history, awards, publications,
presentations, advocacy work, committees and volunteer work.



Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

If you are currently registered in medical school (to be completed by June 30,
2025), you are not expected to provide a diploma with your application;
however, if successfully matched to our program, you will be required to
provide your diploma upon completion of medical school.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Members of the PGY1 Admissions Subcommittee consider all required and optional
permitted documents submitted to CaRMS in ranking applicants.  Outside
documents are not reviewed.

The content of your application will be reviewed independently by the
University of Toronto Internal Medicine PGY1 Admissions Subcommittee. The
subcommittee is comprised of physicians from the Department of Medicine who
demonstrate expert knowledge and experience with the Internal Medicine
program. A standardized process is used to evaluate all application packages.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025
  * January 27, 2025
  * January 28, 2025
  * January 29, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will occur between **0****8:20
to 12:00 EST**  AND **13:20 to 17:00 EST**.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Notification/Invitation: Program will
notify all applicants  
  
Details regarding the interview process: Core Internal Medicine programs
across the country use an external website for booking CaRMS interviews. This
system will open for viewing prior to the interview period and you will
receive an email with a login and password, this will allow you to plan your
interview schedule. More information will be communicated to applicants who
are offered interviews after January 14th.  
  
On the day of the interview, each candidate will meet with two (2) members of
the Admissions committee. The interview will be approximately thirty (30)
minutes.  
  
Prior to interviews, there will be virtual townhalls that applicants may
participate in. The Program Director and Chief Medical Residents will provide
highlights and answer general questions about the program followed by an open
Q&A session with current Internal Medicine residents who can offer a
resident's perspective on the program and living in Toronto.  
  
**Please note that in the interest of fairness, the Program Director and the
Internal Medicine Site Directors of the main teaching hospitals are not able
to meet with individual candidates prior to the interviews. Our Chief Medical
Residents and IM Program Coordinators are available to answer any questions
you may have.**  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We receive approximately 400-600 applications, of which approximately 50
applicants will be offered an interview.  As noted above, the process is
highly competitive. Due to limitations in available positions, it is
recognized that some qualified applicants will not be offered positions.

Members of the Internal Medicine PGY1 Admissions Subcommittee will review all
required and optional permitted documents submitted to CaRMS by **November 29,
2024  at 12:00 EST**. Documents external to CaRMS or received from CaRMS after
our file review process begins (emails, personal attestations, additional
letters of reference etc.) will not be considered.

## Program goals

Our goal is to train outstanding physicians who are skilled clinicians with
well-developed competencies across all the CanMEDS roles; have the tools to
become future leaders of Canadian Medicine, whether they choose to be a
generalist in internal medicine or to pursue careers as subspecialists, are
prepared to meet the needs of the Canadian and global populations. Our aim is
to give equal opportunities to all CARMS candidates who would be excellent
future internists.

## Selection process goals

The [**CanMEDs Physician Competency
Framework**](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/canmeds/canmeds-framework-e) is
fundamental to the Internal Medicine residency program and, as such, our
program selects candidates who demonstrate the skills and aptitude for
developing each of these key roles.

We are looking for residents who are bright individuals with strong
interpersonal and problem-solving skills, an equitable, patient-centered
approach to care, as well as high ethical and professional standards. They
must have a strong knowledge of medicine and the ability to apply that
knowledge clinically. For IMG candidates particularly, experience in the
Canadian healthcare system after completion of undergraduate medical training
is considered an asset in our file review process. We value evidence of strong
leadership qualities, advocacy, and resilience borne of lived experience. Our
ideal candidate possesses all these attributes and has a passion for Internal
Medicine. The University of Toronto program is aimed at residents who are
interested in either a university-based or community practice. We have the
capacity to support those interested in research, education and other areas of
scholarship within the practice of medicine.

Applicants providing evidence of the above attributes will be prioritized
during the file review. Other components of your application (including CV,
personal statement, reference letters, and medical school transcripts) are
used in making the decision of who is invited for an interview. As the
practice of Internal Medicine is complex, the recentness of active patient-
based medical work is viewed carefully by the Admissions Committee.

Involvement in research is of value in demonstrating a commitment to scholarly
activities; however, as it is not a requirement for admission and it is not
heavily weighted in our selection process.

During their interviews, successful applicants must demonstrate excellent
communication skills, the ability to problem solve, and have a collaborative,
person-centred mindset.

For those who are invited for an interview, the file review score and
interview score are produced independently of each other, and each score is
worth 50% of the final selection score. The input of four assessors (two for
the file review, and two for the interview) will be obtained. The PGY1
Admissions Subcommittee meets again after all the scores have been tabulated
to review all the documentation to ensure it has been processed properly, and
to confirm the final ranking for submission to CaRMS. Only information
obtained through review of application files and the interview process will be
used in decision-making. The PGY1 Admissions Subcommittee reserves the right
to adjust final rankings by consensus to address issues of program priority
and diversity.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team includes faculty from a variety of
disciplines and job descriptions within Internal Medicine. Our reviewers are
representatives from our patient populations and undergo anti-bias training.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 401 - 600  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Relevant education, certification, employment history, awards, presentations.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Our program does not require Toronto-based electives when out of town electives are available   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  MCCQE1   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Advocacy, and/or collaboration. Including committees and volunteer work.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Any evidence of excellence in leadership   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Overall review   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in Internal Medicine. How would you fit into our program?   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Documents beyond required will not be reviewed   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research demonstrates a commitment to scholarly activities, but is not required nor heavily weighted   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance and any laps of professionalism   
Other file component(s) |  MCCQE1 - Scores are considered in a competitive manner and will be ranked against other candidates applying to the program this year (not merely pass or fail). Applicants may submit the supplementary feedback, but this is not necessary.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic may have
impacted candidates' opportunities to arrange and complete electives and would
like to reassure you that a reduced elective activity during the pandemic will
not negatively impact your application to our program

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Collaborates in a multi disciplinary team   
Collegiality |  Works well with other physician, trainees, and health care professionals   
Communication skills |  Demonstrates strong communication skills that fosters supportive patient relationships   
Health advocacy |  Contribute their expertise and influence as they work with communities or patient populations to improve health   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrates an interest in and understanding of Internal Medicine   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrates how they would fit within the University of Toronto Internal Medicine Program   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrates to lead others in a supportive manner   
Professionalism |  Conducts themselves in a constantly professional manner   
Scholarly activities |  Research demonstrates a commitment to scholarly activities, but is not required nor heavily weighted   
Other interview component(s) |  On the day of the interview, each candidate will meet with two (2) members of the Admissions Committee. The interview will be approximately thirty (30) minutes long.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Highlights of the University of Toronto's Internal Medicine Program:

  * EDI focus: Resident Interest Group in Social Advocacy (RIG-SA), CaRMS Black and Indigenous Pathway, Academic half day EDI curriculum
  * Very broad spectrum of clinical and research experiences
  * Mentorship: near-peer, academic advisors
  * Unique 4-year Academic half day program, including Royal College examination preparation in the PGY3 year
  * Resident Interest Group in Medical Education

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 3 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Internal Medicine is typically a 3-year residency program and follows the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada standard. Most residents
complete these three years of “core” Internal Medicine training and then
continue in their chosen subspecialty. However, some residents do extend their
training to a four-year training period. Both streams are recognized and
accepted by the Royal College.

The curriculum strictly adheres to the Royal College requirements for Internal
Medicine training and is comprised of a minimum of 15 rotation blocks of
general internal medicine (clinical teaching unit, medical consults, emergency
consults, ambulatory and community-based internal medicine), four (4) rotation
blocks of managing critically ill patients, 1 block dedicated to the scholarly
project and the remainder of the time covering the medicine-related
subspecialties. Residents are required to complete rotations in all major
medicine subspecialty areas during their core training. Each rotation block is
four weeks in length and follows a pre-determined date structure.

**Competence By Design**

The Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada’s competency-based
medical education (CBME) curriculum is called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/competence-design-e). It aims to
enhance patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with
evolving patient needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their
education process.

Residency programs is now broken down into
[stages](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/documents/cbd/cbd-competence-
continuum-diagram-legal-e.pdf), with each stage having a series of milestones
based on required competencies. These milestones create more targeted learning
outcomes and involve more frequent, formative assessments within the clinical
workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving feedback on the
skills they need. For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

Our program implemented CBD on July 1, 2019, after two years of piloting. All
PGY levels have now implemented the CBD curriculum.



**Additional curricular activities:**

The core educational curriculum is reinforced by a variety of educational
activities including the Academic Half Day (described below), dedicated rounds
for each specialty/subspecialty, Department of Medicine rounds (Medical Grand
Rounds and City-Wide Rounds) and other educational events.

Residents are required to complete the web-based PGCorEd core competency
modules as part of their residency program certification at the University of
Toronto. The modules cover a variety of themes outside of “medical expert”;
ensuring residents learn and review key areas of practice such as
communication skills, patient advocacy, teaching techniques, and practice
management. Satisfactory completion of these modules is required by the end of
the PGY2 year.

Please note that changes to the curriculum may occur and are at the program’s
discretion.

We are a wellness-focused program, and aim to provide a welcoming, supportive
environment for all of our trainees, watched over carefully by the residents
and faculty on the Wellness Subcommittee.

**Post-Graduate Year One (PGY1) & Beyond**

In the PGY1 year, residents rank their choice of “base hospital” from one of
the four to five main teaching hospitals. The base hospital serves as your
administrative home base and is generally where you will complete Team
medicine. Residents in the PGY1 year complete a minimum of nine (9) rotation
blocks at their base hospital. Dedicated time at the base hospital may
decrease each year to allow residents to experience the depth and breadth of
the Toronto program. Residents are assigned to two base hospitals over the
course of their Internal Medicine training.

Each post-graduate year is structured to optimize the resident experience. The
first year of training is dedicated to building clinical foundations. By PGY2,
many residents will have developed an informed idea of their clinical
direction and are provided greater opportunities to personalize their program
in terms of site selection, electives and research blocks.

**Electives**

Electives provide residents with the opportunity to personalize their
education experience. Up to six (6) rotation blocks of elective time may be
scheduled over the three (3) years of Internal Medicine. Electives can be
clinical or scholarly. Within this 6-block limit, residents may request one or
two blocks with a “Non – University of Toronto” academic institution outside
of Toronto. All electives must be vetted and approved through the office of
the Program Director, to ensure they complement your overall training and meet
the Royal College curriculum requirements.

**Scholarly Activities/Research**

The University of Toronto fosters a spirit of inquiry in the residents in our
program. All residents in the Internal Medicine training program complete a
scholarly project during PGY2-PGY3, as mandated by the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada (RCSPC). We encourage involvement in a
variety of research areas including clinical, health services, quality, and
safety, as well as education and humanities. One block is protected in the PGY
2 year to ensure that residents have dedicated time to complete a scholarly
project - a Royal College requirement for Core Internal Medicine trainees.
Residents planning to pursue graduate training in research and/or education
may be interested in our [**Clinician-Scientist
Program**](http://www.deptmedicine.utoronto.ca/eliot-phillipson-clinician-
scientist-training-program) or our [**Clinician-Educator
Program**](http://deptmedicine.utoronto.ca/eliot-phillipson-clinician-
educator-training-program), as both offer outstanding mentorship opportunities
with the possibility of funding and are generally entered during or after the
PGY4-5 subspecialty years.

**Academic Half Day (AHD)**

Our AHDs are training year-specific and focus on goals specific to a
resident’s post-graduate level. PGY1s have weekly didactic AHDs focused
primarily on the Medical Expert Competency, Communication, and Patient Safety.
The PGY2 and PGY3 curriculums provide an increased depth and breadth of
knowledge in the Medical Expert domain and focusing on Leader skills with both
the PGY2s and PGY3s attending weekly lectures. The PGY3 year also includes
preparatory half-days centering on the Royal College examination. To
compliment a greater focus on clinical work, PGY4s have one AHD session twice
a month that focus on the transition to practice. Woven throughout the entire
curriculum are sessions about person-centered care and leadership.

Within each specialty or subspecialty rotation, there is also a structured
program of teaching rounds.  

**Mentorship**

As part of the CBD curriculum, residents are assigned an Academic Advisor with
whom they will meet regularly throughout their training to get longitudinal
coaching on their academic performance. They are also matched to a senior
resident for near-peer mentoring, if they are interested.

* * *

# Training Sites

The University of Toronto's Internal Medicine Training Program is fully
integrated. Key hospitals are:

  * Sinai Health Systems (Mount Sinai Hospital)
  * St. Michael’s Hospital
  * Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre
  * University Health Network (Toronto General Hospital, Toronto Western Hospital and Princess Margaret Hospital)
  * Women’s College Hospital
  * Trillium Health Partners (Credit Valley Hospital & Mississauga Hospital)

Residents will also spend time in community sites such as St. Joseph’s Health
Centre, Michael Garron Hospital or North York General Hospital.

Some sites are located outside of the downtown core. Training sessions at
these sites are mandatory and it is the responsibility of the resident to
ensure transportation to and from these locations.

For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>

* * *

# Additional Information

**Pre-residency Orientation Programs**

All IMG candidates accepted to all residency programs will be required to
complete either the Pre-Residency Program (PRP) or the Pre-Residency Program
for Family Medicine (PRPFM) prior to entering into a residency program.
Matched IMGs will be expected to attend these programs in Toronto, several
weeks in advance of the start of their residency program. In some cases, this
may result in a delay of the start date of the residency. Additional
information on the PRP and PRP FM programs can be found at the following link:
[Touchstone Institute](http://www.touchstoneinstitute.ca/).

**Assessment Verification Period**

All IMG candidates accepted to residency training programs will be required to
undergo an Assessment Verification Period (AVP). This assessment period is
normally 12 weeks in length and is required by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Ontario to obtain an educational license to enter a residency
program. [CPSO – International Medical Graduates
(IMGs)](https://www.cpso.on.ca/Physicians/Registration/International-Medical-
Graduates).

IMGs that have failed an AVP and are reapplying through CaRMS are ineligible
to apply for training in the same specialty in Ontario but may apply to a
different specialty in the first and/or second iteration. IMGs who have
withdrawn from a program prior to completion of an AVP must declare so upon
application.

**Additional Ontario Information:**

  1. **Permanent Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education office in order to comply with current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry.
  2. **Matched applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data file to the matched university’s postgraduate education office. The postgraduate office will share the information as needed, but not limited to the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:**  The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure to meet or provide proof**  of any of the stated requirements may result in applicant file being removed at any point during the match.

* * *

# FAQ

**ONLINE APPLICATION**

**  
How many applicants receive invitations to set up an interview?**

We receive approximately 400-600 applications through the International
Medical Graduates (IMG) stream, of which approximately 50 applicants will be
interviewed for approximately 11 placements. We receive approximately 500
applications through the Canadian Medical Graduates (CMG) stream, of which
approximately 250 applicants will be interviewed for approximately 51
placements.

**  
****What happens if information in my application is missing or inaccurate?**

It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure all information provided
is complete and accurate. Applications that are incomplete, completed
incorrectly or that contain inaccurate information will not be considered. If
any of the application sections are unclear, please request clarification well
in advance of the deadline, as no extension is possible. It is critical that
applicants are very familiar with the R-1 Main Residency Match first iteration
applicant timetable.

**  
Although I met the program criteria, I have not been offered an interview or a
residency placement. Why?**

The Internal Medicine Program is highly competitive. We receive significantly
more applications than there are spots available each year and, as a result,
many strong candidates are not offered interviews or accepted into the
program.



**INTERVIEWS**

**  
I am not able to make the interview date. Is it possible to reschedule for a
time outside the interview dates?**

Appearance for your interview is mandatory. To ensure a degree of flexibility
and equal opportunity, applicants schedule their interview time directly
through an online booking system. Scheduling opens to all applicants across
all Internal Medicine programs on the same date. Interview times are granted
on a first come, first serve basis. If your availability has changed after you
have secured your interview time, you may request a change based on the
remaining spaces available.   However, our ability to accommodate your request
can not be guaranteed.

**I was sent an invitation to schedule an interview, but missed the deadline
to reply. Is it possible to schedule an interview after the deadline has
passed?**

It is your responsibility to ensure that the email address provided with your
application is correct and monitored regularly. Responses must be received
before the deadline. No exceptions will be made.

**  
I would like to speak or meet with someone in the department to discuss the
program. Is there someone I can contact?**

Leading up to interviews for our program, there will be a number of organized
townhalls for applicants to join. During these townhalls, the Program Director
and Chief Medial Residents will present important information and highlights
about the Internal Medicine program at UofT and be available to answer
questions. The PD portion will be followed by open Q&A with current residents
from the Internal Medicine program. This will provide applicants a candid and
honest look into specific aspects of life as an IM resident and living in
Toronto. Out of fairness to all applicants, no individual meetings can be
scheduled with the Program Director or the Site Directors. Each CMR may be
approached via email to answer questions about their experience in the
program.



**CURRICULUM QUESTIONS**

**  
Will I be able to choose my base hospital or rotation site?**

All Internal Medicine trainees will be assigned a Base Hospital for their PGY1
and PGY2. In PGY3, they will return to their PGY1 Base Hospital. The Base
Hospitals act as an administrative home base. At the time of online
registration for PGY1, you will have the opportunity to rank base hospital
sites.

During PGY1, you will also spend at least half of your rotation blocks at your
base hospital, while during your PGY2 and PGY3, you will have the opportunity
to rank your preference for career-choice rotation sites in preparation for
the subspecialty match. Note for PGY3 residents, ranking of site preference is
limited to career choice rotations in the first three blocks. We do our best
to accommodate site preferences in coordinating base hospital and rotation
schedules.

**  
I have noticed that a few of the sites are not in the downtown core. If I am
living in the downtown area, will I need to commute to these sites or can I
request that all my rotations occur closer to my residence?**

Although there will be opportunities to indicate site preferences for some
rotations, all residents will at some point be expected to complete rotations
at sites not located in the downtown core. It is the resident’s responsibility
to organize transportation to and from these sites. We will not accept
requests to avoid a site based on concerns about the commute.

**  
Will rotation content vary from site to site?**

Every hospital site follows the same University of Toronto-defined rotation
objectives and evaluations. There may be some variation in content due to
hospital-specific differences (i.e. patients admitted); however, all our sites
are excellent and considered equivalent in terms of the value of the resident
experience.

**  
Will I be expected to do overnight calls?**

Yes, all residents are required to complete overnight calls with some
variation between rotations and sites. Two weeks before each rotation block,
you will receive a schedule from the rotation coordinator, or designate,
indicating when you are on call. It is the resident’s responsibility to honour
call commitments and to request any time off according to the
vacation/educational leave approval guidelines. Please see the Professional
Association of Residents of Ontario (PARO) website
([http://www.myparo.ca](http://www.myparo.ca/)) for further information on
call expectations.

**  
I have a great interest in research and am keen to enter the Clinician-
Scientist Program. When can I apply?**

Some residents will have a greater focus on research and as such, may be
interested in entering the [Clinician-Scientist Training
Program](http://deptmedicine.utoronto.ca/eliot-phillipson-clinician-scientist-
training-program), this would require that you step out of residency training
while pursuing the research. The move of the Royal College examination into
the PGY3 year makes it harder to consider scientific training at the same time
as clinical training.

**Will there be opportunities for residents to get involved and have a voice
concerning their educational experience?**

There are several opportunities for residents to get involved. Residents elect
representatives for several committees including the Resident Program
Committee. The Internal Medicine program is responsive to the needs of its
residents and welcomes any feedback or suggestions. Academic Half Days are an
excellent example of a student-motivated initiative that was then implemented
by the program. There are also opportunities to get involved through base
hospital initiatives.

The structure of the program is such that it provides a strong network of
support to residents. In addition to support staff provided through the
Internal Medicine program and Post-Graduate Medical Education, each site has a
designated Site Director and Chief Medical Resident (PGY4) available to answer
resident questions. These individuals are there to provide support and
resources to residents based at their site.





Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26409?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26409