#  Western University - Neurology - London  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 27, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Anita Florendo-Cumbermack  

Address Clinical Neurological Sciences  
London Health Sciences Centre  
339 Windermere Rd, Room B7-005  
London, ON N6A 5A5, Ontario  

Work  519-663-3696

519-663-3982

Websites of Interest [ Information - Neurology Residency at Western
](http://www.schulich.uwo.ca/cns/education/future_students/neurology_residencies/index.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Lisa Baker-Spiller

Title: Medical Education Program Administrator

Email: neurologycns@lhsc.on.ca

Phone: 519-663-3696

  

* * *

# Important Information

All programs at Western commence on July 1, 2025 ** ** Residents are
encouraged to attend a virtual orientation session, Date TBA.



**Resident Meet & Greet with CaRMS Candidates:  Sunday, November 24th,
6:00-7:30 p.m.**

Join Zoom Meeting

**<https://westernuniversity.zoom.us/j/96219444698?pwd=I3jVsaPNlutNzL73M1rneaFtL0HxRw.1>
**



**Meeting ID: 962 1944 4698**

**Passcode: 889179**

 \---

 One tap mobile

+16475580588,,96219444698#,,,,*889179# Canada

 \---

 Dial by your location

  * +1 647 558 0588 Canada



Meeting ID: 962 1944 4698

Passcode: 889179

 Find your local number: <https://westernuniversity.zoom.us/u/abfsBuiSHP>



* * *

# Return of Service

 **This program has a return of service obligation attached to it.   Please
review the provincial criteria for more information: **
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Please note:

We received hundreds of applications for the ONE Neurology IMG position at
Western.  For this reason, we are unable to interview all applicants.  You
will be notified by email whether or not you will be offered an interview.

Please direct any questions regarding the application or interview process to:
neurologycns@lhsc.on.ca

If you would like to be in touch with a resident, please feel free to contact:

Umangjot Bharaj PGY4:  ubharaj@uwo.ca

Cathy Li PGY5:  mli534@uwo.ca

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided (by submitting one
of the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.
Failure to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.
No other forms of verification are acceptable.  

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of card must be provided and legible.

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

Applicants must be able to communicate in the language of instruction and
patient care of the matching school.

Must provide proof of English language proficiency through **ONE** of the
following:

## **Submit one of the following documents to verify your language
proficiency:**

• IELTS  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  

**Language assessment document accepted:**  TOEFL-iBT, TOEFL-iBT Home Edition
accepted

**Document validity (not expired) by** : Must be valid up to the assignment of
applications and documents deadline

**Minimum score:**  93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section

** **

**Language assessment document accepted:** IELTS Academic

**Document validity (not expired) by:**  Must be valid up to the assignment of
applications and documents deadline

**Minimum score:** 7 in each component



**Language assessment document accepted:** Occupational English Test (OET)
-Medicine

**Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to the assignment of
applications and documents deadline

**Minimum score:** Minimum grade of B in each component



**Language assessment document accepted:** Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to the assignment of
applications and documents deadline

**Minimum score:** Minimum score of 9 in each component

## **Letter of language proficiency**

Candidates can submit a printout from the  [World Directory of Medical
Schools](http://www.wdoms.org/) which clearly states that the language of
instruction is English.

If the World Directory of Medical Schools directory does not indicate clearly
that the language of instruction is solely English, a letter of language
proficiency is a letter from your Dean attesting that your medical school
program of instruction was completed solely in English.

Examinations

Required

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

3 letters of reference are required. These should be from academic clinicians
or scientists who know the candidate well and are able to comment on interest
in neurology, clinical proficiency, knowledge, motivation, and interpersonal
skills.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

We require a personal letter which describes the students' background and
other interests, why they wish to enter Neurology residency. They should
describe why they are choosing Western as a program and why they feel they
would be a good match for the program.  Letter should be approximately 500
words.

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

A copy of medical school marks/transcripts and medical degree/diploma must be
submitted.  Documents that are not in English must be accompanied by a
notarized/certified translation.  Students applying in the last year of
medical school will need to submit their most recent marks/transcripts, and
will need to provide proof of their MD to CPSO prior to the start of residency
training.

All IMGs need to have their documents verified through physiciansapply.ca.
This process can take several months to complete.  Individuals are advised to
visit physiciansapply.ca at the point of application.

Optional - will be reviewed

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 6, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews for the IMG position available
will be held virtually on Thursday, February 6, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All candidates are interviewed by two
panels; one consisting of the Program Director and Faculty members and the
other with residents in our program.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The Neurology Program at Western seeks candidates who display the following:

  * Demonstrated interest in neurology
  * Aptitude and commitment to learning
  * Outstanding professionalism and work ethic
  * Excellent communication skills
  * Evidence of strong interpersonal skills and ability to work well in a team setting
  * Strong academic record



## Program goals

The Neurology Residency Program at Western aims to provide an exceptional
learning environment and mentorship to each trainee.  The program is designed
to ensure that every resident will gain the appropriate educational
experiences to allow them to successfully complete program objectives and
Royal College examination, and to be confidentally prepared for independent
practice.  

The program goals and objectives are written specifically for the Neurology
Residency Training Program at Western University and are based on the CanMEDS
roles and reflect the Objectives of Training and the Specialty requirements of
the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.  



## Selection process goals

Successful applicants will have demonstrated interest, aptitude and commitment
to neurology through their application and via the interview process.
Professionalism and strong interpersonal and communication skills are
considered to be essential attributes.

The Neurology Program at Western is a highly collaborative and collegial
program, and as such, successful candidates will demonstrate a cooperative and
collegial nature.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is a subcommittee of the RPC and is
comprised of the Program Director, faculty members and residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Review of background including academics, work, volunteer, and research experience   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We are cognizant of the challenges candidates encountered this year and, while we prefer candidates to have done a variety of electives, we are aware this may not have been possible and will consider this when reviewing applications   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  All examinations listed in required documents will be reviewed   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Participation in volunteer work or other extra-curricular activities   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Demonstrated leadership skills   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evidence of professionalism and a successful academic career   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in neurology and strong written communication skills   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Strong reference letters   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Evidence of research exposure; publications are not required   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evidence of strong academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence of effective collaboration in team interactions   
Collegiality |  Demonstrated collegiality during interactions with all team members   
Communication skills |  Able to communicate in an effective and clear manner   
Health advocacy |  Awareness of the importance of health advocacy in the role of the physician   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated strong interest in neurology   
Interest in the program |  Knowledge of the neurology program at Western   
Leadership skills |  Evidence of effective leadership skills   
Professionalism |  Demonstrated professionalism and respect towards review team and fellow applicants   
Scholarly activities |  Evidence of interest and aptitude for scholarly activity   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * Collegial learning environment with outstanding clinical teachers strongly supportive of residents
  * Wide-ranging and extensive outpatient experiences incorporating all the neurology subspecialties
  * Longitudinal clinics to gain experience in long-term follow-up of patients with neurological disease
  * Excellent exposure to general neurology through the Urgent Neurology Clinic as well as community electives
  * Extensive involvement in acute stroke management, including thrombolysis and endovascular therapy
  * Very highly qualified faculty research mentors keen to supervise resident research projects
  * Great opportunities for electives locally, nationally and internationally 
  * Highly livable, affordable city with excellent cultural and recreational opportunities

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Neurology residency programs across Canada transitioned to Competency Based
Medical Education (CBME) on July 1, 2020. The Neurology program at Western
University adapted its curriculum to ensure achievement of the competencies
and specialty requirements set out by the requirements of the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada and thus successfully transitioned to CBME.

A general outline of the 5-year program is below:

PGY-1

The PGY-1 year begins with 2-3 introductory blocks on the neurology home
service for achievement of the Transition to Discipline stage requirements and
to familiarize residents with the structure and function of the program, the
neurology ward, and the hospital environment.   These first blocks also
provide ample opportunity to become familiar with Clinical Neurosciences
faculty, allied health, and fellow trainees.  In their first year, trainees
gain appropriate exposure to disciplines relevant to the practice of
neurology, including, but not limited to, internal medicine and its
subspecialties, neurosurgery, emergency medicine, and psychiatry.  

Residents will complete a block on the Urgent Neurology service during their
first year, offering them exposure to general neurology cases and outpatient
clinics.



PGY-2

The Foundational year consists of further training in medicine subspecialties
as well as an opportunity to experience rotations in physical medicine and
rehabilitation, palliative care, and sleep medicine.  

In the latter half of PGY-2, residents begin the Resident Longitudinal Clinic,
where they will learn management of patients in a longitudinal fashion.

PGY-3-4

The Core training years will include experience on the inpatient ward, the
emergency department and the Urgent Neurology Clinic as well as subspecialty
outpatient clinics. Western offers clinics in all the neurology
subspecialties, and trainees will learn the approach to diagnosis and
management of a broad spectrum of neurological conditions.  On the inpatient
wards, trainees will learn the management of neurological emergencies,
including stroke, and to develop investigative and treatment plans for
patients with acute and chronic neurological disease.  

During the core years (starting in late PGY-2) residents begin the Resident
Longitudinal Clinic, where they will learn management of patients in a
longitudinal fashion.  During the core training years, residents will also
gain the required experience in pediatric neurology and neuropathology.
Trainees will also be exposed to electroencephalography and electromyography
and may develop or enhance interests in basic and clinical research.



PGY-5

The Transition to Practice year is structured such that the trainee assumes
the role of junior attending in both the Urgent Neurology Clinic and the
inpatient service.  Administrative, teaching and leadership skills are further
developed through management of these services.  In their final year of
training, residents customize outpatient experiences that meet their
educational needs and interests.  Communication skills and counseling
techniques continue to develop during this time and the resident prepares to
transition to independent practice.





Scholarly Activity  
  

**Quality Improvement Initiatives**

Residents are trained in quality Improvement methodology and are involved in a
QI project during their training. During PGY-2 year, they propose a topic on
which they will present at QI rounds, selecting cases that highlight a need
for system improvements, analyzing these scenarios and implementing relevant
change. Residents will continue work on their Quality Improvement project
during their core years of training, presenting a second QI rounds
demonstrating the progress made on their project and highlighting its impact.



**Research**

Residents can opt for a Research block or blocks at any time during residency.
Early in training, residents meet with a faculty research coordinator and are
encouraged to identify a research project in which they can participate during
their PGY-2, 3, and 4 years, with the goal of presenting an abstract at a
meeting and publishing a paper.  The annual CNS Research Day offers residents
an opportunity to present their research in a collegial, encouraging
environment.  Resident research is encouraged and supported through the
expertise, supervision, and mentoring by faculty in Clinical Neurological
Sciences at the Schulich School of Medicine & Dentistry, Western University.

  
  

Academic Curriculum  
  

During the first month of training, PGY1 residents have protected time during
the day to attend a neurology bootcamp that is facilitated by senior residents
and faculty.  The topics discussed are chosen to help prepare the residents
for residency as well as independent call.

Tuesdays offer residents academic protected time during CNS Grand Rounds and
seminars that are carefully designed to cover the essential range of basic and
clinical science required for neurological practice.  Seminars and workshops
cover all the CanMEDS roles. The Medical Expert role is well-represented, with
sessions in the diagnosis, investigation, and management of all major
neurological diseases.  Residents participate in regular, interactive
workshops designed to enhance their communication skills.  Evidence-based
neurology sessions are held bi-monthly to enhance residents' critical
appraisal skills, an essential element of the CanMEDS communicator role.
Neuroanatomy sessions, incorporating case-based, team-based learning, are held
on a monthly basis.  Sessions on bioethics, practice management,
interdisciplinary teamwork, and preventive medicine in the neurosciences round
out the academic curriculum.  An approach of continuous quality improvement is
taken with the curriculum, which evolves in response to changes in practice
standards and based on resident experience/feedback.

The academic curriculum also includes regular subspecialty noon or morning
rounds in epilepsy, movement disorders, stroke, neuromuscular disease, and
neuroradiology.   Physical diagnosis rounds focusing on developing solid
physical examination skills occur on a monthly basis.  Every effort is made to
accommodate resident attendance at these rounds.



Assessment



Our robust system of assessment includes:

  * biannual OSCEs
  * biannual practice written examinations
  * regular observed history and physicals
  * formal in-training evaluations
  * Entrustable Professional Activities (EPAs)
  * Annual multisource feedback
  * Review of scholarly activity

In addition, Neurology at Western has a culture of frequent, in-the-moment
feedback to residents from staff.



* * *

# Training Sites

  

London Health Sciences Centre, University Hospital: Neurology clinical
teaching unit, neurology consult service, inpatient epilepsy monitoring unit,
EEG and EMG, outpatient subspecialty clinics

London Health Sciences Centre, Victoria Hospital: Urgent Neurology Clinic,
neurology consult service, pediatric neurology (inpatient and outpatient),
neuro-oncology (London Regional Cancer Program)

St. Joseph's Health Care: Cognitive neurology clinics

Parkwood Hospital: Neurologic Rehabilitation

* * *

# Additional Information

Web Sites:

City of London, Ontario - http://www.london.ca/

London Health Science Centre - http://www.lhsc.on.ca/

Neurology Residency - Clinical Neurological Sciences Department -
schulich.uwo.ca/cns/education/future_students/neurology_residencies/index.html

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27434?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27434