#  Dalhousie University - Dermatology - Halifax  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 13, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Ashley Sutherland  

Address Division of Dermatology  
Rm 4189, Dickson Bldg  
5820 University Ave  
Halifax, Nova Scotia, B3H 1V7  

Work  (902) 473-2814

Websites of Interest [ Dalhousie University Dermatology
](https://medicine.dal.ca/departments/department-
sites/medicine/divisions/dermatology.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Ashley Sutherland

Title: Program Director

Email: ashley.sutherland@dal.ca

Phone: 902-473-2814

  

Name: Danielle Stone

Title: Program Administrator

Email: danielle.stone@nshealth.ca

Phone: 902-473-2814

  

* * *

# Important Information

To obtain a postgraduate training license after the conclusion of the match,
Canadian Medical Graduates (CMG's) must have registered and challenged the
Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Exam Par 1 (MCCQE 1) by July 1, 2025.
Those unsuccessful in the exam are subject to the decision of the regulatory
authority regarding licensure.

You are required to declare any real or perceived conflicts of interest to
documents submitted in your application. For example (not an exhaustive list):
publications or projects done with family members; monetized Dermatology
related projects; funding sources for experiences. This information may be
used in the assessment process.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

####  

You must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident _**at the time of
application**_.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Provide three reference letters. Preferably, these references will be from
rotations or exposures within the prior two years with at least one
dermatology specific reference.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Please provide a CV which includes, but is not limited to, educational
background, dermatology rotation experiences and scholarly activity.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Personal letter should outline your motivation to pursue dermatology training
at Dalhousie university. It should not exceed 500 words.

Please include a statement in your personal letter indicating if you did or
did not use Chat GPT, or other AI to generate any of the letter.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Conditionally required

Graduate Transcript (Master/PhD Degree)

If applicable, please include transcripts from graduate programs.

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

Please include transcripts from any undergraduate degrees obtained.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All application files are reviewed and scored by the program director and two
or more other division members to determine eligibility for an interview.
Applicants are considered for an interview based on a standardized scoring
system that incorporates academic experience, electives, research and
publications, reference letters, knowledge and interest in our training
program and personal attributes from accompanying documents. Interviews are
offered to applicants based on committee consensus following discussion and
review of all files by at least two division members and the program director.

The selection committee, which includes the above three members as well as the
chief dermatology resident, meets after interviews are concluded to review and
discuss the application files and interview scores. A group consensus is
achieved after discussion of all application information and rank order is
determined based on interview and file scores as well as an individual's
professional qualities as determined by interactions with administrative
staff, faculty members and residents, the interview process, references and
submitted CaRMS files.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 31, 2025

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Applications for the Dermatology
residency program will be reviewed by the program director and two or more
other dermatology teaching faculty. Selection for interviews will take place
based on review of supporting documents as outlined previously. Interviews
will be arranged by the program and individuals will be contacted directly. We
will be interviewing all potential candiates on one day and do not offer
alternate interview dates.  **Please note that the program will not discuss
decisions with applicants regarding interivew selection or after the CaRMS
match. There is no waitlist for interview offers.**  
  
Interviews are conducted by some of our faculty members and residents. The
interviewee will typically rotate through "stations/encounters". An encounter
may involve a traditional interview question (eg: motivation for choosing the
specialty) or a scenario such as an ethical question or situational judgement
scenario. Each station will last approximately 10-15 minutes. An individual's
performance will be based on a summary of all encounters.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

1\. Academic performance

2\. Exposure to Dermatology or related specialty

3\. References

4\. Past research activities and/or publications

5\. Personal letter

6\. Candidate's professional qualities and ability to work collaboratively
with others.

## Program goals

Our primary goal of the Dalhousie Dermatology training program is to produce
competent and confident general clinical dermatologists. We are looking for
candidates that will have displayed interest in general clinical dermatology
and training at Dalhousie.

Dalhousie is a small and collegial program by reputation that offers residents
varied clinical exposure with close supervision from experienced and practical
dermatologists with a medical dermatology focus.  Residents benefit from
frequent clinical exposure and managing their own patients given the smaller
size of the program. Also, the number of learners in the clinic environment is
optimized so as not to dilute learning needs of core dermatology residents.
Staff remain strongly committed to resident education and participate actively
in resident academic half days.

## Selection process goals

Dalhousie is committed to fostering a collegial culture grounded in diversity
and inclusiveness. The university encourages applications from Indigenous
persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women, persons of a
minority sexual orientation and/or gender identity, and all candidates who
would contribute to the diversity of our community.

The goal of the selection process is to select candidates for training that
have an interest in general clinical dermatology with adequate knowledge and
exposure to the field. The successful candidate will thrive in a collegial and
small training program with a diverse patient contact experience with a large
referral catchment area.

The components of the file that will be considered to determine this are
academic records, personal letter, references, research exposure and elective
experiences.

## File review process

Review team composition : The application review committee is composed of the
program director and two or more dermatology faculty members to decide which
candidates will be offered an interview. The chief resident is involved in the
final review process discussion after interviews, and prior to developing the
rank order list, but is not a voting member of the selection committee.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Background experience and education, volunteer experiences and previous work experiences   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Exposure to dermatology or related fields but we also value varied elective exposure   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Applicants identified interests outside the field of medicine   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Involvement in leadership roles within or outside of medical training   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Mainly review for unexplained academic gaps in training; review for red flag comments   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Looking for evidence of genuine interest in dermatology and training at Dalhousie   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Review for concerning comments about professionalism, review of comments made by colleagues   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Evaluation of research interests and activities including publications or presentations/participation in conferences   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Review general previous academic performance in medical school including pass/fail scoring   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We understand the difficulty and complexity around obtaining electives and
will take this into consideration during the review process.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We do not evaluate this in interview component   
Collegiality |  Does the candidate have experience working in small or large groups and how do they approach potentially difficult interpersonal situations?   
Communication skills |  Is candidate able to communicate with interviewers and answer questions that are asked?   
Health advocacy |  Is the candidate able to identify and speak on equity, diversity and inclusion considerations that may impact patients or other healthcare professionals?   
Interest in the discipline |  Is there a genuine interest in the specialty of Dermatology?   
Interest in the program |  Is there a specific interest in training at the Dalhousie Dermatology program?   
Leadership skills |  Does candidate have experience in leadership role? How has this shaped their training and career?   
Professionalism |  Does the candidate display professional behaviour during the interview?   
Scholarly activities |  Does the candidate have experience with scholarly projects?   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Dalhousie is a small and collegial program that offers residents excellent
clinical exposure with close supervision from experienced and practical
dermatologists with a medical dermatology focus. Residents gain diverse
clinical experience with broad exposure as Halifax serves as a referral center
for the Maritime provinces. Residents benefit from frequent outpatient and
inpatient clinical interactions and are able to experience independent
management of patients with close support from senior residents and staff
given the smaller size of the program. Also, the number of learners in the
clinic environment is optimized so as not to dilute learning needs of core
dermatology residents. Staff remain strongly committed to resident education
and participate actively in resident academic half days.

Halifax is a multicultural city with an attractive arts and culture scene,
many outdoor activities and a vibrant, central downtown core. Specific
strengths of the program noted by previous and current residents include broad
exposure to dermatopathology and a dedicated teaching staff. The goal of our
program is to train competent and professional medical dermatologists capable
of providing exemplary clinical care for a diverse and multicultural patient
population.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

 **PGY1 & 2:**

These first two years of general training will provide residents with
essential clinical skills upon which to add a dermatology knowledge base and
skill set. Rotations are structured to meet Royal College Competency By Design
training requirements by exposing residents to disciplines within internal
medicine, family medicine, emergency medicine, pediatrics, plastic surgery and
dermatopathology.



**PGY 3-5:**

The training program is based at teaching hospitals within the Capital
District Health Association and includes the Halifax Infirmary, Victoria
General (VG) Hospital, Nova Scotia Rehabilitation Centre, Abbey Lane Hospital
and the Izaac Walton Killam (IWK) Children's Hospital.

The majority of training occurs within outpatient clinics at the VG hospital
and the IWK hospital. Consultation service involves coverage at other sites
listed.

Residents rotate through general and subspecialty clinics during their three
years of core dermatology training. Subspecialty clinics include surgery
including Moh's surgery, phototherapy, cutaneous oncology, Gynecologic
dermatology and Pediatric dermatology. Later in residency, residents obtain
exposure to lasers and some aesthetic procedures through exposure at private
clinics or electives. Community, national and international electives are
encouraged. The Nova Scotia Department of Health and Wellness also requires
residency programs to provide up to 10% of a residents training outside of the
Central Zone. This will be supported through elective and selective
experiences.

A noted strength of the program is dedication to protected academic teaching
sessions for residents. Friday mornings are protected for teaching and involve
a robust schedule of rounds including patient clinical rounds, digital
photography rounds, JAAD CME review, book chapter club, basic science,
therapeutics, M&M rounds, CANMEDS lectures and clinico-pathology correlation
rounds. There are weekly dedicated dermatopathology teaching sessions provided
by local dermatopathologists. These sessions are supplemented by monthly
clinical dermatopathology sessions where a dermatologist provides clinical
material and the pathologist reviews corresponding pathology.

Resident travel is supported by the department of medicine as outlined above.
Residents are encouraged to undertake research in their training; a scholarly
project or activity is mandatory according to Royal College requirements.

Residents in the core three years of dermatology training rotate quarterly
through three month clinic blocks with general, pediatric and subspecialty
clinic exposure. Consultation coverage varies within each rotation. In the
second and third year residents may choose electives such as dermatologic
surgery or contact dermatitis and these could be done at another academic
center with divisional financial support. In the final two years of training
there is a weekly resident clinic where residents book in patients at their
discretion and manage patient care under supervision. Residents in their PGY3
year attend a series of didactic and case review framing lectures when they
begin their core training so there is a baseline knowledge of approach to
various dermatologic conditions established. Throughout the training program,
residents achieve graded responsibility with a goal to function independently
as a consultant dermatologist.

* * *

# Training Sites

Dalhousie University

Teaching hospitals include: Halifax Infirmary, Victoria General Hospital, Nova
Scotia Rehabilitation Center, Abbey Lane Hospital and the Izaac Walton Killam
Children's Hospital. The Victoria General building houses the administrative
offices of the program administrator, division head, educational library and
most teaching clinics.

_NOTE: All residency programs are required to have 10% of their residency
training outside of Halifax Regional Municipality as stipulated in the most
recent Academic Funding Plan set out by the Department of Health and Wellness
of Nova Scotia. Please be aware that if matched to Halifax, as part of your
training you may be expected to complete rotations outside the central zone
but within the maritime provinces._

There is a strong commitment to teaching both in clinics and during weekly
academic half days. Half day activities include patient rounds, digital
rounds, pathology rounds, JAAD CME articles, book chapter club and basic
science. Weekly dermatopathology and one on one resident teaching sessions are
also incorporated into the resident schedule. Residents receive ample
opportunity to develop increasing professional responsibility in a collegial
and professional working environment with close supervision and support of
staff members.

All residents in the department of medicine at Dalhousie University are
eligible for one funded trip per year for educational purposes and a second
trip provided a poster or paper is presented at a recognized conference.

A full-time, on-site phototherapy unit is located adjacent to the dermatology
clinic space and provides light treatment (including narrow band UVB,
broadband UVB, and PUVA) for patients in Nova Scotia.

The program's primary objective is to train excellent general clinical
dermatologists who will serve the medical needs of an expanding patient
population with skin disease.

Dalhousie University has had a dermatology training program since 1982 and
entered the Carms match system in 2010. Given that it is a smaller program,
there is significant daily, direct interaction between residents and staff.
There are four full time members on site with approximately 10-12 part time
members who participate in teaching clinics, academic half day and the call
roster. The presence of a Division of Medical Education at Dalhousie enriches
medical education significantly and for those with interests in medical
education, electives are encouraged.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26312?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26312