#  University of British Columbia - Cardiac Surgery - Vancouver  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 20, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Paul Bui  

Address Surgery - Cardiovascular Surgery Division  
Room 486 - 1081 Burrard Street  
St. Paul's Hospital  
Vancouver, British Columbia, V6Z 1Y6  

Work  (604) 806-9307

Fax

Websites of Interest

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Mrs. Maryam A. Milani

Title: Senior Program Administrator

Email: mmilani@mail.ubc.ca

  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

###  

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required from staff physicians in which the
relationship between the referee and the candidate should be well stated.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

The candidate should submit a short letter outlining any personal history that
may be appropriate and relevant to the application, state reasons for choosing
cardiac surgery as a career and future goals.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 18, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews are held on a Saturday and
depending on the number of applicants, it can take from half a day to a full
day. Interviews will be held virtually by zoom.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Applications will be prescreened,
short listed and then contacted by email for interview. On the interview date,
each shortlisted candidate will have a virtual interview for 45 to 60 minutes
with the members of the Residency Education Committee.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

All Applications are considered by the Residency Education Committee members
composed of Program Director and members of each teaching hospital as well as
one resident representative. Each of the short listed candidates will be
interviewed after which the REC members will rank the candidates. All short
listed candidates will require strong letters of reference.

Our program seeks individuals with strong academic records, technical
aptitude, a demonstrated research interest and a commitment to learn.

## Program goals

In designing the Cardiac Surgery program we want to expose the trainees to a
wide multitude of experiences from clinical to non-clinical. The program is
designed to expose surgeons to patients of all ages: neonatal to
octogenarians. Downtown hospitals and peripheral hospitals with differing
socio-economic patients. We aim to produce compassionate, well rounded
surgeons who can serve diverse communities and societies. Many of the
rotations involve being part of a medical team  and how to develop skills
within that framework  will enable trainees to develop their own leadership
traits such as interpersonal skills, insight, ethics, etc.

## Selection process goals

Ethical, technically sound yet aware of limitations and willing to seek help
and advice.

Team player, respectful of the entire team and willing to meet the demands of
the program.

Kind, compassionate and a patient advocate who communicates clearly with all
stakeholders.

Candidate should have excellent work-ethic, good interpersonal skills and
insight.

Must be involved in research throughout residency and take an active role in
teaching.







## File review process

Review team composition : Program director and members of REC ; chief resident

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  experience, education, accomplishments, interests   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  where and which electives taken   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  grades   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  wide range off interests   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  team player   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  overall assessment   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  reason why our program, reason why speciality, interests   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  source, work/education/personal /etc.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  subject matter, collaboration, types of presentations   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Grades, courses taken   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We are looking for applicants who have completed electives with a focus on
Cardiac Surgery.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  proven team player   
Collegiality |  interpersonal skills   
Communication skills |  clear, concise, compassionate communicator   
Health advocacy |  compassionate, knowledgeable, resourceful as patient advocate   
Interest in the discipline |  inherent passion for specialty   
Interest in the program |  demonstrates candidate has researched program   
Leadership skills |  what areas has candidate shown exemplary leadership skills   
Professionalism |  ability to be forthright , team player, interpersonal skills   
Scholarly activities |  research interests, how much research will be part of candidate’s career   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 6 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Cardiac Surgery program is organized so that it provides a stepwise graded
increase in responsibility as the residents go from their junior to their
senior years.

The first two years provide a core experience in which the residents have
opportunities to learn the core principles of surgery with a high degree of
focus on basis sciences and physiology. These are taught both at organized
structured lectures as well as throughout each rotation informally.  
The residents have an opportunity to utilize these and integrate them in to
complex patient management. A variety of rotations in various surgical
disciplines are provided to give a broad-based experience. The residents
become part of a team and contribute to it.

The next two years provide more training in research as well as a much more
clinical exposure with more emphasis on problem diagnosis and management. The
residents have more responsibility both on call and in the operating rooms but
still have both senior residents and attending staff available to help with
clinical issues.

Ongoing academic learning is provided through academic half days as well as
research days and journal clubs. The next two years provide a senior residency
experience where the residents are expected to provide leadership and
direction to the cardiac surgery team and have a direct link with the
attending staff. They are also expected to teach the junior house staff
including the medical students and junior residents. A heavy emphasis is put
on intraoperative clinical skills with increased responsibility through the
rotations as the residents transit from being first assistants to primary
operators with the staff’s help.

The final six months is the chief residency year in which the residents are
expected to take on an administrative function in terms of organization of
house staff, rounds and cases. They are expected to “run” the service. They
have the opportunity to make independent decisions although attending staff
are available at all times. They are expected to be able to skillfully perform
all the technical skills as outlined in the Royal College goals and objectives
and also be able to teach intraoperative skills to more junior residents. The
Program provides ample opportunities to meet all the requirements as set forth
by the specialty committee and function as independent surgeons once the
residency training is complete.

As our program goes further into CBD, there will be less emphasis on the above
and more on the specific assessments, increased emphasis on indirect and
direct observations, timely feedback where resident progression and promotion
is based on evidence.

Seminars  
  

There are scheduled weekly rounds on all cardiac surgical rotations as well as
an academic half day every Wednesday. The academic day is comprised of two
parts: a technical wet lab which involves live animals, cadaveric specimens
and technical simulation stations all focused on improving the surgical skills
of all levels of residents; alternating with didactic sessions which involve
both resident and attending-led seminars. Residents participate and present
during monthly journal clubs and attend research journal clubs every 3 months.
We also provide opportunities for all residents to attend national and
international meetings and conferences and it is expected that every resident
will present and publish their research on an annual basis.

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

There are three adult cardiac and one pediatric cardiac training sites:

Vancouver General Hospital

St.Paul Hospital

Royal Columbian Hospital, and

BC Children's Hospital

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26777?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26777