#  Memorial University of Newfoundland - Psychiatry - St. John's  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 23, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 6

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Andrew Latus  

Address Discipline of Psychiatry  
c/o Jackie Doran, Health Sciences Centre  
300 Prince Philip Drive  
St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador, A1B 3V6  

Work  (709) 864-3641

Work  709) 777-4197

Websites of Interest [ MUN Psychiatry
](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/psychiatry/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Andrew Latus

Title: Program Director

Email: alatus@mun.ca

Phone: 709-777-4197

  

Name: Jackie Doran

Title: Academic Program Administrator

Email: pgme.psychiatry@mun.ca

Phone: 709-864-3641

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please review Memorial University's [Provincial
Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/) and admission requirements for postgraduate medical education.



**Orientation**

Applicants who match to Memorial University must attend orientation during the
last week of June. Details will be provided in March 2025.

* * *

# Return of Service

CMGs/USMGs:

No return of service (RoS) is required for CMG seats in the first iteration.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Exemption to English language proficiency testing**

  * If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States where English is the language of instruction, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.  
    * **If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States which provides training in multiple language streams, please self-identify which stream you graduated from, e.g. English-Stream, French-Stream, Spanish-Stream, etc.**

**Who is required to provide English Language Proficiency?**

  * If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States where the language of instruction is not in English (e.g. French) you are required to provide proof of proficiency in the English language. It is important to note that this requirement extends to all such applicants, regardless of whether other secondary/post-secondary education took place in English and regardless of citizenship.

The accepted English language proficiency exams, and the required scores, are
as follows:

  * International English Language Testing System - Academic (IELTS-Academic), with a minimum score of **7**  in each of the components in the same sitting;
  * Occupational English Test - Medicine (OET-Medicine), with a minimum grade of **B**  in each of the four subsets in the same sitting;
  * Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program Test - General (CELPIP-General), with a minimum score of **9**  in each of the four skills in the same sitting.

Exams must be dated within 24 months of the residency start date (July 1).
Results must be available by the CaRMS document review deadline.

Examinations

Optional - will be reviewed

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If applicable.



Reference documents

Required

Applicant support form  Number requested: 3

Traditional letters of reference are no longer accepted for this program. Your
referee must complete the required structured reference form. Please include
this link in your reference request:
<https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/2025-Psychiatry-Structured-Reference-Letter-EN.pdf>

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  250

Maximum :  550

  

Personal Letters should be 250-500 words maximum and include:

Reasons the candidate is interested in psychiatry  
What particular experiences or skills make the candidate well suited to
psychiatry  
Reasons the candidates are interested in Memorial University’s psychiatry
program.

Custom Résumé / CV

Memorial Declaration for Interruptions

ALL applicants must submit the [Declaration of Interruptions
](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/pgme/current-learners/forms/)form with their
application.

Consent for disclosure

ALL applicants must submit the [Consent to
Disclose](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/pgme/current-learners/forms/) form with
their application.  

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

If available.

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

If available.

Please note, unofficial transcripts would suffice for the application process.
Medical school transcripts and undergraduate transcripts can also be provided
in the same document (if both degrees are from the same University).

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applications are initially screened by the program director or their
designate. Applications which are selected for interviews are reviewed by one
resident, one faculty member and the program director.  A group meeting will
be offered virtually involving the discipline chair, program director, and
administrative resident (or their designates).  Individual interviews will be
conducted with residents and faculty members virtually.  The interview format
is semi-structured and 30-45 minutes in duration.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 24, 2025
  * February 3, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Virtual interviews will take place on
Friday Jan  24, 2025 and Monday Feb 3, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews are required and will be
conducted virtually.  The academic program administrator will contact all
short listed candidates to set up an interview time. On the interview date,
candidates are given the opportunity to meet with the discipline chair of
psychiatry, the program director and chief resident in a group setting. This
is an informal information session when candidates can ask questions
pertaining to the psychiatry program at Memorial University or life at
Memorial University and/or Newfoundland, in general. Individual interviews are
conducted with 1 faculty member and 1 resident. Interviews are semi-structured
and take approximately 30 minutes.  
  
On the interview day, candidates are also given the opportunity to meet
informally and virtually in an evening event organized by the resident social
committee.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

  * The candidate's academic record.
  * The candidate's interest in psychiatry. Demonstration of this interest through psychiatric electives, selectives, or research would be helpful for consideration. Candidates who have developed a late interest in psychiatry as a career are encouraged to discuss this transition in the personal letter.
  * Maturity, empathy and sensitivity.
  * The demonstration of good interpersonal skills. 

## Program goals

The mission of the discipline of psychiatry of Memorial University is to
provide training for physicians and medical students in the specialty of
psychiatry that faciliates achievement of a bio-psycho-social-spiritual
understanding of the person in health and illness within the context of
excellence in clinical service to the population of the province, teaching and
research.

The residency training program strives to train excellent general
psychiatrists who can provide recovery-oriented care to patients across the
life-spectrum.  It is also vital that residents have the capacity to recognize
determinants of health and advocate for their patients locally and across
healthcare systems. Moreover, our trainees learn to recognize quality issues
affecting patient care and formulate professional and appropriate responses.
Training is multifaceted and includes clinical work and a comprehensive
academic curriculum, in a collegial environment that fosters coaching and
mentorship.

With a small program size, our program emphasizes the facilitation of
individual career interests, whether it be clinical, administrative,
educational or research-oriented.

## Selection process goals

The discipline of psychiatry at Memorial University endeavours to recruit
residents with a genuine interest in psychiatry who have demonstrated skills
and attitudes that are important for our discipline. Academic records and
reference letters are therefore reviewed closely. Professionalim is highly
valued in our program and all records are reviewed for any signs of concern in
that area and for reported excellence in this role. Ideally, successful
applicants would have an appreciation for the healthcare needs of our
communities and an interest in Newfoundland and Labrador.

## File review process

Review team composition : All files are reviewed by the program director and a
faculty member or resident. Resident or faculty reviewers assess their
assigned files and provide a summary of their file to the program director.
Candidates deemed suitable are then offered an interview by the program
administrator.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Yes, we evaluate.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Yes, we evaluate.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  If submitted, we evaluate.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Yes, we evaluate.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Yes, we evaluate.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Yes, we evaluate.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Yes, we evaluate.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Yes, we evaluate.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Yes, we evaluate.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Yes, we evaluate.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: While electives in our specialty are not required, at
least one elective in our specialty is considered a strong asset in
consideration for our program.

On Site Elective: Not required.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  All applicants are interviewed, generally by a team of 1 faculty
member and 1 resident, who will individually assess applicants on a feedback
form. The interviews are semi-structured and takes appropriately 30 minutes.  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Yes, we evaluate.   
Collegiality |  Yes, we evaluate.   
Communication skills |  Yes, we evaluate.   
Health advocacy |  Yes, we evaluate.   
Interest in the discipline |  Yes, we evaluate.   
Interest in the program |  Yes, we evaluate.   
Leadership skills |  Yes, we evaluate.   
Professionalism |  Yes, we evaluate.   
Scholarly activities |  Yes, we evaluate.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  Unsolicited information from social media.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The psychiatry training program at Memorial University offers a broad and
solid foundation in general psychiatry. We are large enough as a program to
offer a diverse range of clinical experiences, but small enough to allow for
easy communication and collaboration amongst faculty and residents. PGY 1
residents in our program are engaged with their 'home' program from the
commencement of residency.  Our academic curriculum has been tailored to meet
the requirements of Competence by Design. There are also opportunities for
longitudinal experiences in research, medical education, and administrative
psychiatry for residents who have an interest in pursuing these roles.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Length of Training Program: 5 Years

Curriculum  
  

The psychiatry program at Memorial University strives to provide a broad and
comprehensive clinical and academic curriculum that enables residents to
attain competencies in all CanMEDS roles using a Competence by Design
framework as outlined by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Canada. We have designed a training program that promotes success at the Royal
College qualifying exams, while enhancing a sense of social accountability and
the ability to maintain a career of continuing professional development and
wellness.  Our clinical rotations are continuously evaluated to maximize the
training benefit to our residents, and our curriculum committee actively
engages with the resident group to offer a high-quality, developmental and
faculty-guided academic curriculum throughout the program.

  
  

**Rotations  **

**Transition to Discipline (TTD)**

The first eight weeks of training is spent in psychiatry in an acute care
setting.  Formal teaching is focused on fundamental skills in emergency
psychiatry and therapeutic crisis intervention to prepare residents for
longitudinal call requirements, as well as other important TTD topics.
Community visits allow an introduction to community supports and the mental
health care needs of our population.

**Foundations of Discipline Rotations (PGY 1)**

Foundations training is designed to provide recent medical graduates with
introductory resident-level training in psychiatry, addictions and additional
experiences in the broad field of medicine as a whole. The PGY 1 Foundations
rotations are as follows:

Six blocks outside psychiatry:

            1 block internal medicine

            1 block neurology

            1 block emergency medicine

            1 block pediatric emergency medicine

            1 block geriatric medicine or endocrinology

            1 block selective (family medicine, medical subspecialty, research)

            2 blocks of addiction medicine

            1 block of addiction psychiatry in Grand Falls Windsor (this community is approximately 4.5 hours away from St. John’s with an active rural psychiatry service which incorporates virtual care).

            1 block of addiction medicine in St. John’s at our regional medical detox, and outpatient addiction services including harm reduction services and outreach clinics in local shelters. 

Residents will also be assigned to attend some primary care clinics in
underserviced settings in collaboration with the discipline of family medicine
during one block of psychiatry in PGY 1.



  
  

**Foundations of Discipline Rotations (PGY 2)**

Residents will spend six months doing primarily inpatient general psychiatry
and six months of outpatient general psychiatry with some longitudinal
outpatient follow-up throughout the year. Our program offers a similar
clinical exposure to all residents who rotate between two general hospitals
(Health Sciences Centre and St. Clare’s Mercy Hospital) and the provincial
psychiatric hospital (Waterford Hospital).

_Residents who are interested in working in smaller centres have the option of
working with Memorial University faculty in Grand Falls-Windsor or Dalhousie-
affiliated faculty in Saint John, NB, for part of PGY 2._

  
  

**Core of Discipline Rotations (PGY 3)**

Six months of child psychiatry which includes a mix of inpatient, outpatient,
consultation liaison and emergency psychiatry, as well as regular core
teaching topics and case conference activities.

Six months of geriatric psychiatry which includes three months of inpatient
geriatric psychiatry at Waterford Hospital and three months of outpatient and
consultation liaison psychiatry, as well as regular core teaching topics and
case conference activities.

  
  

**Core of Discipline Rotations (PGY 4)**

Rotations focused on consultation liaison psychiatry, the care of severe and
persistent mental illness, including an assertive community treatment (ACT)
team, and senior emergency psychiatry rotation focused on leadership and
collaborator skills. We have maintained a requirement to complete shared care
psychiatry through either a two block rotation in Grand Falls-Windsor or
longitudinally in St. John's. Residents are able to work with the program
director to determine what best suits their career goals and preferences in
establishing this schedule.



**Transition to Practice (TTP) (PGY 5)**

Twelve months of elective and selective rotations oriented to the resident’s
career interests and attaining important competencies around practice
management and scholarship.

  
  

**Academic Program**

The academic program consists of one half day per week of didactic teaching
which is protected time for all residents in psychiatry from PGY 1 - PGY 5.
Additionally, there are Friday academic activities, including Psychiatry Grand
Rounds, Critical Appraisal sessions, Emergency Psychiatry Rounds and periodic
lectures by visiting speakers. The program's curriculum committee meets
regularly and includes representation from junior and senior residents, thus
our program is constantly evaluated to ensure we are meeting educational goals
established by the Royal College, as well as the healthcare needs of
Newfoundland and Labrador.

The didactic teaching program is organized to meet the formal learning
objectives outlined by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
within a Competence by Design framework; therefore, the Transition to
Discipline, Foundations of Psychiatry, and Core Psychiatry each have
concurrent curriculum delivered by staff psychiatrists and inter-professional
team members such as the School of Pharmacy. Additionally, junior residents
have weekly interviewing skills where they learn the skills required to
interview and understand a broad range of psychiatric presentations, in
addition to giving feedback to their colleagues. The interviewing skills
course is organized developmentally such that residents transition to an
“advanced” interviewing skills where the competencies expected are higher and
patient presentations more complex. The senior resident teaching program
focuses on the care of severe and persistent mental illness, comprehensive
training in the theory of psychotherapy as well as more advanced training in
interview skills. A PGY 4 level course is designed specifically to assist
residents in preparing for the clinical Royal College qualifying examination,
while enhancing their consultation and practice management skills.

University Grand Rounds are conducted by residents for the the discipline of
psychiatry and allied health professionals. Each resident presents three
discipline Grand Rounds presentations during PGY 2, PGY 3 and PGY 5.

Patient-centered teaching is done by faculty and staff in the course of daily
work in both inpatient and outpatient settings. A number of faculty also
present seminars in a variety of topics during core rotations as requested by
the residents. Residents are also expected to teach their junior residents,
interns, and clinical clerks as part of their training as future teachers. The
Medical Education Scholarship Centre offers a mandatory, longitudinal course
to all residents at Memorial University which focuses on enhancing clinical
teaching skills.

Residents additionally have protected time to attend an annual resident
retreat which is supported by the program as well as an annual faculty
resident retreat.  

**Psychotherapy Training and Supervision**

Residents undergo extensive training and experience in the theory and practice
of psychotherapy beginning in PGY 1 and continuing throughout the five years
of their residency program. These experiences are coordinated by the
psychotherapy director for our program, who meets longitudinally with
residents over the course of their training to monitor progress and reflect on
this component of training. Overall, the goal is to offer training in core
psychotherapeutic techniques that can be offered as stand-alone treatments or
integrated into general clinical practice.

PGY 1 includes academic half days focused on basic therapy skills and
supportive techniques. Moreover, all residents complete a one day seminar in
therapeutic crisis intervention, which is integral to on-call work. In PGY 2,
residents attend seminars in cognitive behavioral therapy and interpersonal
therapy and are supervised in cognitive behavioral therapy. Residents
participate in family therapy during the child and adolescent rotation. In PGY
3, they attend seminars in long-term dynamic psychotherapy and receive
clinical supervision with a patient having psychodynamic psychotherapy.

  
  

**Emergency Training in Psychiatry**

Residents complete 12 weeks of introductory training and experience in
emergency and crisis-oriented psychiatry as part of their early Foundations
training.  A competency-based assessment program has been used for a number of
years during this rotation to ensure that residents have demonstrated the
necessary competencies during “buddy call” before progressing to “independent”
call by PGY 2 while supervised by on-call staff.

Throughout their PGY 2 through PGY 5 years, residents are assigned to call
responsibilities in either the Psychiatry Assessment Unit (PAU) at the
Waterford Hospital or the Child and Adolescent Emergency Department at the
Janeway Children's Health and Rehabilitation Centre. Call is under the
supervision of the supervising psychiatrist.  Residents on-call in the Adult
Emergency Department work with one or two interns/clinical clerks, the on-call
general practitioner, and the emergency psychiatric nurses. **Call varies in
frequency but averages approximately one in seven to one in ten** throughout
the residency program. Call frequency is decreased during part of the PGY 4
examination year.

  
  

**Research**

Residents are required to complete one scholarly project during their
residency and disseminate the results of this work. Projects can include
original research, education or quality review. Residents are expected to
present their work initiatives at the discipline’s Annual Psychiatry
Scholarship Day. Residents are also required to submit their work to peer-
review in one of two ways: they may prepare and submit a manuscript to a peer-
reviewed journal for publication; or they may prepare and present an academic
poster at a peer-reviewed conference. Residents between PGY 2 - 5 are given
the equivalent of four weeks of research time that can be divided on an
individual basis to assist in fulfilling these research requirements. The
program Research Advisor will be available to assist residents in this
process.

The program recognizes excellence in psychiatric resident research, awarding
the Janssen Award for Excellence in Psychiatric Resident Research at each
Psychiatry Scholarship Day.  
  
The program also offers a three - six month research elective. This research
elective is intended for new research, in addition to the resident research
requirement. Expansion of an existing project will also be considered.

**Seminars  **

There are weekly half-day seminars as outlined under "Academic Program" above.
Discipline Grand Rounds occur alternate Fridays during the academic year.
Critical Appraisal and Research Education sessions occur alternate weeks
(opposite to discipline Grand Rounds). Emergency Psychiatry/Quality rounds are
held every four weeks. A monthly Journal Club is organized and run by
residents.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

**Resources**

The Health Sciences Centre

Janeway Children's Health and Rehabilitation Centre

St. Clare's Mercy Hospital

The Waterford Hospital

The L. A. Miller Centre

Central Newfoundland Hospital, Grand Falls-Windsor

NOTE:  We anticipate that residents will also train at the new  Mental Health
and Addictions Centre in St. John's that will open in 2025.

* * *

# Additional Information

Please address any questions you may have regarding the psychiatry residency
training program via e-mail to either the program director at alatus@mun.ca or
the program administrator at pgme.psychiatry@mun.ca. Please expect a delay of
up to three business days for us to reply.  

We look forward to meeting you!

* * *

# FAQ

**Are the people in Newfoundland really that friendly**?  Yes :-)



**Will there be an opportunity to speak with residents about the program**?
Yes, we will be hosting virtual information nights and a Facebook page for
applicants, as well as a virtual social event.







* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26310?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26310