#  University of Alberta - Cardiac Surgery - Edmonton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on December 20, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Steven Meyer  

Address Department of Surgery  
3A5.064 MAZ  
11220-83 Avenue - University of Alberta  
Edmonton AB , Alberta, T6G 2B7  

Work  (780) 407-7454

Work  (780) 407-1959

Websites of Interest [ Cardiac Surgery - University of Alberta
](https://sites.google.com/a/ualberta.ca/surgcarms/home)  
[ Accredited Surgical Simulation Program
](https://www.ualberta.ca/surgery/research/dsssp/index.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Ms. Diep Do

Title: Program Administrator

Email: card.surg@ualberta.ca

Phone: 780-407-7454

  

* * *

# Return of Service

There are no return of service requirements at the University of Alberta.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Please see the Alberta [provincial
criteria.](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/)

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) are required to provide proof of
English language proficiency as determined by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) who completed their medical education in
Quebec or at the University of Ottawa (French Stream) are required to provide
proof of English language proficiency as determined by the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

CMGs who completed their medical education at the University of Ottawa must
indicate on their application which stream they completed (either French or
English).

_For more information on the CPSA English language requirements, please visit
the  [CPSA website](https://cpsa.ca/physicians/registration/english-language-
proficiency/)._

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

We require three letters of reference which should be written by staff
physicians and medical school professors, not residents.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

The formal application should include a short letter indicating any
appropriate personal history, and past academic and non-academic
accomplishments which may be relevant. An indication of reasons for your
interest in cardiac surgery and eventual future goals in this discipline will
also be useful.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

References are due in CaRMS Online by November 29, 2024

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 1, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be conducted on a virtual
platform.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

* * *

# Selection Criteria

All applications are considered by the Residency Program Committee. This group
is composed of the following

  * Program Director
  * Divisional Director
  * cardiac teaching faculty
  * resident representatives
  * Cardiac ICU representative
  * cardiology representative
  * vascular surgery representative
  * thoracic surgery representative

Candidates are short-listed by this group and interviewed individually on the
scheduled date. After the interview, the Residency Program Committee ranks the
candidates.

## Program goals

**Cardiac Surgery Residency Training Program Mission Statement**  

  * To prevent, detect, and treat diseases of the cardiovascular system
  * To provide exemplary patient care 
  * To provide a stimulating and challenging educational program for undergraduate and post-graduate students 
  * To maintain excellence in patient care, education, and research
  * To foster a lasting desire for self-improvement through ongoing educational activities. 

## Selection process goals

A successful applicant for our program possesses the following qualities.  

  * An individual who strives to maintain excellence in patient care, education, research, and to foster a lasting desire for self-improvement through ongoing educational activities. 
  * An individual who can learn to detect, prevent, and treat diseases of the cardiovascular system and to provide exemplary patient care.
  * An individual with excellent interpersonal and communication skills.
  * An individual who can provide a stimulating and challenging educational program for undergraduate and post-graduate students.  

## File review process

Review team composition : The team consists of all available staff surgeons,
one representative from Cardiology, Thoracic Surgery, Vascular Surgery and ICU
team and the Lead resident.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
An average of 15 applicants/year

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Reviewed   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Our program does not favour residents who do electives at our site or numerous electives in our specialty. We consider and value applicants with broad clinical experiences.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Reviewed to assess CanMEDs competencies   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Reviewed to assess CanMEDs competencies   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Reviewed   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Reviewed   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Good vs outstanding reference letters and where these are obtained   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Projects related to Cardiac Surgery   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Reviewed   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: Electives will not be considered a requirement.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Based on questions asked at time of interview. ie, past/current experiences applicants faced   
Collegiality |  Based on questions asked at time of interview. ie, past/current experiences applicants faced   
Communication skills |  How well applicant can answer questions at time of interview   
Health advocacy |  How well applicant can answer questions at time of interview   
Interest in the discipline |  As listed in Letter of intent/Personal letter: discussed at interview   
Interest in the program |  As listed in Letter of intent/Personal letter: discussed at interview   
Leadership skills |  Projects completed by applicant as outlined in CV/past current experiences   
Professionalism |  How applicant carries himself/herself within interview, past experiences   
Scholarly activities |  As listed in CV   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Quick Facts

  *  Some residents have chosen their academic enrichment year to work as residents at other centres (eg. Mayo Clinic).  Many of our residents have increased their academic year to 2 years or more to obtain a Masters of Science or PhD degrees.  Enrollment in a Clinician Scientist program is highly encouraged.
  * Ratio of residents to faculty: 9 residents to 11 staff Cardiac Surgeons, 6 staff Vascular Surgeons and 5 staff Thoracic Surgeons.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 6 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Rotation requirements are outlined on the Royal College Website.   Rotations
are very similar to the outline pathway below especially in years 3-6.  There
are some changes to the Surgical Foundations year and this can be found on the
aforementioned website.**



**  Research**

Clinical research is highly stressed and it is expected that a resident will
prepare several abstracts/publications during their residency. The year
available for "academic enrichment" can be used as a clinical or basic science
research year. Basic science areas of interest in our Division include Ex-vivo
heart and lung perfusion, transplant metabolism with metabolic modulation of
immune function,  pulmonary vascular development, neonatal myocardial
protection and fetal surgery and improving homograft valve preservation. A
2-year research period to obtain a Master of Science degree is highly
recommended.

 **Seminars**

There are weekly scheduled conferences on the thoracic, pediatric and adult
cardiac surgical services. In addition, Friday morning is set aside for
resident half-day with topics covering the complete range of cardiovascular
and related topics.   Journal club meetings are held on a monthly basis. Oral
and written practice examinations are held on a rotating basis.

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

The majority of clinical exposure in the PGY 3-6 years will be at the
Mazankowski Alberta Heart Institute (University of Alberta). All cardiac
surgery is done at a single site - the Mazankowski Alberta Heart Institute.

Other sites involved in Cardiac Surgery training for residents are the Grey
Nuns Hospital and Royal Alexandra Hospital.

* * *

# Additional Information

**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)**

The University of Alberta recognizes the importance of diversity, equity,
inclusivity, decolonization, and indigenization (EDIDI) and is committed to
the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry’s policy on anti-racism.

Further, the University is committed to implementing the Truth and
Reconciliation Commission calls to action that are relevant to education and
medicine.The pursuit of diversity and equitable opportunities is a core value
that guides our selection practices.

The University encourages applications from underrepresented groups, including
Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women,
persons of a minority gender identity or sexual orientation, and individuals
who would contribute to the diversity of the medical community. The CaRMS
Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) is an optional form that candidates
can fill out.

Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism in residency
selection, but is currently not using the CSIQ as part of our application
process. We are using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable
opportunities for all applicants.

* * *

# FAQ

The program director meets with all the candidates to be interviewed on the
interview day and provides an overview of the program and the interview
process and answers any questions.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27004?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27004