#  Western University - Diagnostic Radiology - London  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on November 29, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Mousumi Bhaduri  

Address Medical Imaging - Diagnostic Radiology  
Victoria Hospital  
800 Commissioners Road East  
London, Ontario, N6A 5W9  

Work  519.685.8500 ext. 32615

Work  519.685.5800 ext. 52343

Websites of Interest [ UWO Medical Imaging
](http://www.schulich.uwo.ca/medimaging/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Mousumi Bhaduri

Title: Program Director

Email: mousumi.bhaduri@lhsc.on.ca

Phone: 519-685-8500 ext.32615

  

Name: Kelsey Klages

Title: Manager

Email: kelsey.klages@lhsc.on.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

CASPer Test is no longer required.



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided (by submitting one
of the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.
Failure to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.
No other forms of verification are acceptable.  

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of card must be provided and legible.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference from staff physicians who can accurately assess the
candidate, are mandatory. All material should be submitted prior to the CaRMS
deadline.

A photo will be required, please be sure to upload your photo with your
application.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  500

Maximum :  559

  

Please submit a brief (500-550 words) letter about yourself and why you would
like to pursue a career in diagnostic imaging.

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Please only submit 3 reference letters.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 5, 2025
  * February 6, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Selected candidates will be interviewed on
either February 05 or February 06, 2025. It is requested that all applicants
include a photograph with their application.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: From the application pool,
approximately 48 candidates will be offered a virtual interview. An virtual
interview is mandatory. Applicants selected for an interview will be notified
by e-mail. The interview process takes approximately 1.5 hours and consists of
three sets of interviews. Candidates will meet with the Program Chair and
Program Director, with two faculty members and with two or three residents
(including a chief resident).  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Many factors are considered in selecting candidates to the program. These
include (in alphabetical order only):

-interest in radiology

-letters of reference

-scholarships

-strong interpersonal skills

-teaching and research interests



## Program goals

To lead in radiology residency training through education, research and
innovation.  To provide excellent training in the specialty of radiology
through an accredited program with a CanMEDS based curriculum.  Develop
expertise in all radiologic subspecialties and modalities with an emphasis on
professional development.  Obtain experience in research, quality assurance,
teaching and multi-disciplinary collaboration.  Establish a strong foundation
for lifelong learning.

## Selection process goals

A successful applicant would be required to have excellent communication and
collaboration skills in addition to the other CanMEDS roles during the
interview and with supporting documents.  Must be well-rounded, hard working,
have a positive attitude, a great work ethic, have flexibility, determination
and be a team player with the ability to work in harmony with co-workers; be
eager and willing to add to their knowledge base and skills.

## File review process

Review team composition : The Program Director, the Chair/Chief of Radiology,
two radiologists, and three current residents

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Transcript, grades, supervisor comments, publications   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Must demonstrate a strong academic performance to be considered for an interview   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  CASPer exam NO longer required   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering, hobbies, team/committee involvement activities   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Membership and activities to professional societies, committee memberships   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Clerkship record, and rotations   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Reasons for choosing Radiology   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  From faculty who directly supervised candidate   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Relevance and number of publications   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Detailed grades with supervisor comments   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We do not consider elective choice as a screening
measure for an interview. A demonstrated interest in our discipline is
preferred.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due
to weather, technology failure or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Interview questions will assess understanding of the importance of collaboration in Diagnostic Radiology   
Collegiality |  Interaction with colleagues and staff.   
Communication skills |  Ability to communicate effectively in English.   
Health advocacy |  Understanding of the current state of health care and the challenges faced by all stakeholders.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated awareness of skills and abilities required.   
Interest in the program |  Familiar with our program.   
Leadership skills |  Information from CV and examples of leadership roles provided.   
Professionalism |  Exhibits professional attitude during the interview.   
Scholarly activities |  Information from CV.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Residency Training Program Start Date - All programs at Western commence on
July 1, 2024, with a one-day orientation in London, Ontario through Western
University on a date to be announced.**

The Diagnostic Radiology Residency Program at Western University is accredited
by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. It is a mid-size
program with about 20 residents (usually 4/year). PGY1 is a basic clinical
year. PGY2-5 rotations are all in diagnostic imaging. The core rotations meet
Royal College Specialty Training Requirements and provide experience with all
the modalities and body systems. Elective time occurs mainly in PGY5.

**PGY-2**

The goals of the PGY2 year are an introduction to the core areas of radiology
as well as preparing the resident to begin call, which usually starts in
December. Most rotations are one block long. Residents rotate throughout the
city and all residents do the same rotation complement (but at different times
throughout the year). There are rotations in general radiology, abdominal
imaging, chest imaging, bone/musculoskeletal, ultrasound, CT, neuroradiology
and an introduction to mammography.

**PGY3 & PGY4**

The PGY3 & PGY4 years consist of subspecialty radiology rotations covering all
the core areas of Radiology, plus Nuclear Medicine. Each year there is one
mammography rotation. All residents have the opportunity to attend the four
week American Institute for Radiologic Pathology (AIRP) Radiology/Pathology
Correlation Course which is usually taken in the PGY4 year. Time for research
is permitted at the discretion of the program.

**PGY5**

The focus of the PGY-5 year is review, consolidation and exam preparation.
Residents are given greater responsibility and at the completion of their
residency they should be functioning at the level of a junior consultant. Core
rotations include general radiology (2 blocks) and mammography (1 block).
Senior residents have considerable flexibility choosing rotations in their
final year.





Research and Teaching  
  

The Western Diagnostic Radiology Residency Program is designed to teach and
evaluate specialty physician competencies as defined by the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada . These competencies include Medical Expert,
Communicator, Collaborator, Leader, Health Advocate, Scholar and Professional.
In order to achieve expertise in these competencies, research and teaching by
residents is mandatory. Residents are required to participate in two research
projects during their residency. One may be a "minor" project such as a case
report or a report of a small case series. The other project should be a
formal research project following the scientific method.  Residents are given
a longitudinal research block that would allow them to utilize up to 20
research days throughout their PGY2-5 years.  It is expected that residents
will present their work at the annual resident research day. The program runs
a journal club approximately four times per year, and residents are expected
to present one article per year. Medical student teaching is an essential part
of the program and we seek applicants with a strong interest in teaching.

  
  

Resident Education  
  

1\. Radiology Case Rounds

-approx 1 hour per day, each site

2\. Academic Half-Day

-variety of topics covered in greater depth

-Thursday afternoons (2-5 pm)

3\. Visiting Professor Series

-excellent all-day sessions, often by well-known radiologists

-3-4 per year

4\. Physics Course

-week-long didactic course given by physicists

5\. PGY1 academic summer series - CANMEDS and other topics

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

Teaching Facilities - There are three teaching hospitals in London:

1\. Victoria Hospital, London Health Sciences Centre:

Victoria Hospital is a 441 bed acute care hospital with all specialties
represented except cardiac surgery and neurosurgery. The Children's Hospital
of Western Ontario is integrated with Victoria Hospital. All clinical services
are busy, and include the adult and pediatric emergency departments. Victoria
Hospital is the level 1 trauma centre for southwestern Ontario. The London
Regional Cancer Centre is located at this campus and is also integrated with
Victoria Hospital. The large radiology department at Victoria Hospital was
recently expanded and updated and contains state-of-the-art equipment. There
are 2 MRI scanners, two 64-slice CT scanners, 10 ultrasound units, 3 angio
rooms and modern general radiography equipment. A new tower to accommodate an
expanded pediatric service and obstetrics has opened.

2\. University Hospital, London Health Sciences Centre

University Hospital is a 303 bed acute care hospital with many busy clinical
services including cardiac surgery, neurosurgery, transplant service and busy
medicine and surgical services. Internationally recognized imaging research is
conducted at the Robarts Research Institute located adjacent to University
Hospital. University Hospital is situated at the north end of the Western
University campus. The radiology department at University Hospital is
currently being renovated and expanded. There is modern equipment throughout
including two MRI scanners, two 64 slice CT scanners, and modern Ultrasound
and angiography equipment.

3\. St. Joseph's Health Care London

St. Joseph's Hospital has been transformed into an ambulatory care centre with
out-patient surgery. Specialized clinical services at St. Joseph's Hospital
including the hand and upper limb clinic, ophthalmology, rheumatology and
urology. A brand new radiology department with state-of-the-art equipment
opened in 2006 at St. Joseph's Hospital including a 64 slice CT. St. Joe's
also has a PET/MR scanner and 3 MRI's.

1\. All residents are given the opportunity to attend the AIRP
radiology/pathology correlation course in Washington, DC, USA. The cost of
tuition of the course is covered by the program, and residents receive up to
$4,000 (Canadian) to offset the cost of travel, accommodation and meals.

2\. Residents presenting an abstract or displaying a poster at a major
radiology meeting will have their expenses paid.

3\. Residents are entitled to a one time stipend of $500 (Canadian) to offset
the cost of attending a major radiology meeting (eg. CAR, RSNA, ARRS) if not
presenting or displaying at the meeting.

London is a leader in the regional integration of PACS. All London teaching
hospitals as well as several peripheral hospitals share the same state-of-the-
art PACS system. There are ample reporting stations for staff radiologists and
residents at all three teaching sites.

The hospitals of London serve as a tertiary referral centre for a large
geographic area of southwestern Ontario, extending from Windsor and Sarnia to
the west, up to Owen Sound in the north and to Kitchener/Waterloo and
Brantford to the east, with a catchment area of greater than 1 million.

The Department of Medical Imaging uses a region-wide PACS which has Academic
Folders for teaching files, and also STATDx, another excellent resource.

* * *

# Additional Information

London is located in southwestern Ontario at the forks of the Thames River. It
is a medium-sized city with a population of 383,000. Well-known for its
hospitals and the University, the city also has a diverse economic base
including commerce and industry. The climate is reasonable as the city is
located less than 100 miles from the most southern point in Canada (Pelee
Island). Sandy beaches on the shores of Lake Erie at Port Stanley and Lake
Huron at Grand Bend are only about an hour away. London boasts over 40
kilometers of paved multi-use recreational pathways along the Thames River,
which are popular for jogging, cycling and roller blading. In addition,
Budweiser Gardens, a 10,000-seat stadium, has been attracting many high-
profile musicians and entertainers. London is a fun, clean and attractive
place to live and work!

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26361?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26361