#  McGill University - Radiation Oncology - Montreal  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Regular Stream for All  

##  Last approved on September 06, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Boris Bahoric  

Address Radiation Oncology  
Royal Victoria Hospital  
1001 Decarie Boulevard  
Montreal QC , Quebec, H4A 3J1  

Work

Websites of Interest [ web site ](http://www.medicine.mcgill.ca/postgrad/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Scott Cortenbach

Title: Program Administrator

Email: admin.radonc@mcgill.ca

  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP must be submitted with each application.  
EITHER:

  * A copy of Canadian Birth Certificate or a copy of Certificate of Canadian Citizenship

OR

  * A copy of Permanent Resident Card (copy of both sides of the card) OR a copy of an IMM 5292, IMM 1000, IMM 5688;   
NB: the Permanent Resident card can be expired.

OR

  * A copy of Citizenship Card (copy of both sides of the card)

P.S: the passport is not an acceptable proof of citizenship.

Each year, all candidates applying in a CaRMS match must provide proof of
valid current citizenship or permanent resident status. As of the 2021 R-1
match cycle, CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate
the citizenship/legal status verification, which is usually completed by
Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) offices.

if an applicant has had their citizenship/legal status documentation verified
by any of the following organizations for the current R-1 match, the applicant
will not be required to assign a proof of citizenship/PR document (as pictured
in the screenshot below).

  * Medical Council of Canada ([MCC](https://mcc.ca/))
  * British Columbia's Clinical Assessment Program ([BC-CAP](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/clinical-assessment/))
  * Bureau de cooperation interuniversitaire ([BCI](https://www.bci-qc.ca/en/))
  * Alberta International Medical Graduate Program ([AIMG](https://www.aimg.ca/))

For further information, please check the following link on CaRMS:
[https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-
citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-)

Examinations

Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the MCCQE Part I exam, please include the statement of
results and supplemental information report in your application.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the NAC exam, please include the statement of results and
supplemental information report in your application. The MCCQE Part II or
Certificate of Registration of the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada
(LMCC) is accepted in place of the NAC Examination.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. We will accept a letter from a senior
resident

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

The applicants are asked to write a letter explaining their choice for the
specialty. Any past personal experience which could be relevant to a career in
the field of Radiation Oncology should be mentioned in this letter.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

to assign it if you have completed/done an undergrad.

Graduate Transcript (Master/PhD Degree)

If applicable please provide your graduate transcript.

Additional required IMG documents

Lettre de reconnaissance de l'équivalence du diplôme MD

Please provide the results of the exams that permitted you to have your
medical degree recognized and approved by the CMQ.

Graduates with the diploma of doctor of osteopathy awarded by a school of
osteopathic medicine situated in the United States providing that the school
is accredited by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the
American Osteopathic Association do not have to obtain the recognition of the
equivalence of the medical diploma by the CMQ. These graduates do not require
the MCCQE Part I, the National Assessment Collaboration (NAC), or the
Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada (LMCC) in order to apply.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 6, 2025

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: We prescreen and then contact
candidates to set up interviews. We coordinate interviews with other programs
in our discipline in our region. Interviews will be by video conference.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Residents are selected based on their academic record, autobiographical letter
as well as reference letters and interview with the Selection Committee.

## Program goals

The overall goal of the residency program is to train competent Radiation
Oncologists who will have the skills necessary to function independently as
consultants. Ultimately, we aim to train future leaders in the specialty who
are comfortable with both leading teams and being valuable team members, with
special skills in quality improvement and patient safety.

The program goals align with the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Canada's _Competencies and Training Experiences for the Specialty of Radiation
Oncology (_ 2018, Version 1.0) and has successfully launched the Competence by
Design program July 1, 2019.



## Selection process goals

A successful applicant will demonstrate:

  * Exceptional professionalism skills and the ability to be a team player
  * Strong academic performance in each of the CanMEDS 2015 roles
  * A strong interest in oncology as a whole, and in particular, radiation oncology, including knowledge of the role of the various members of the radiation oncology team
  * Ability and enthusiasm for self-directed learning and ability to adapt to the various demands of radiation oncology residency training



## File review process

Review team composition : Our selection committee includes the Program
Director, Site Director or delegate (from the MUHC), radiation oncologists, 1
medical physicist, and 1 chief resident  
  

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Reviewed for academic background, electives, research experience, and publications   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Assessments in general, but particularly from oncology and radiation-oncology related electives   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Able to identify and respond to a range of issues that influence the health and well-being of individual patients, communities, and populations.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Outside interests;mentorship/teaching roles   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership position experience from within or outside of medicine   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstration of professionalism; awards/special recognition   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in the specialty and reason for choice of program location   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Reliability, interpersonal skills, ability to be a team player   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest and success in pursuing research projects and/or publishing   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work in a team   
Collegiality |  Positive attitude and reliability   
Communication skills |  Excellent oral and written communication skills   
Health advocacy |  Able to identify and respond to a range of issues that influence the health and well-being of individual patients, communities, and populations.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrates knowledge of the role of the various radiation oncology team members   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrates interest through pursuit of electives in the specialty   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrates the ability to effectively lead a team; interest in quality improvement   
Professionalism |  Correspondence with program administrator, chief residents, and faculty   
Scholarly activities |  Ability to describe experience with a scholarly project   
Other interview component(s) |  On occasion, performance on a mock clinical scenario   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Multidisciplinary oncology resident education (MORE) sessions bring together
trainees in surgical oncology, radiation oncology, and medical oncology every
two weeks to discuss multidisciplinary management by site. Clinical training
for many sites also takes place in multidisciplinary clinics where team
decision-making is key.

Physics teaching at McGill is done by dedicated physicists, and involves
didactic classes and clinical case reviews. Our trainees graduate with strong
skills in physics.

Numerous research opportunities are available to our residents, including
clinical research, basic science research, projects on education, quality
improvement, global oncology, artificial intelligence, etc. With the help of
the research director, residents are made aware of the different ongoing
projects and can develop their own as well.

McGill trainees graduate with strong communication skills and the ability to
be excellent team players. It is not a coincidence that many heads of Quebec
radiation oncology departments are/were McGill graduates!



Annual Meet & Greet



Please join us for a virtual meet and greet with our faculty and residents
information will be on the AFMC calendar.

For the first half of the meeting, we will have some of our faculty introduce
themselves, discuss the program, and answer any questions.  The later half
will be a discussion with the residents to discuss the program openly and
answer any remaining questions.  We look forward to virtually meeting you!



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Residency Program  
  

The residency program in radiation oncology is based at the McGill University
Health Centre and the Jewish General Hospital and will involve 1 or more
community rotations.  The program is designed to ensure that at the completion
of training, the resident will be capable of independent care of ambulatory
and hospitalized patients with malignant disease, including and most
especially the planning and the supervision of treatment with radiotherapy.
The program provides vigorous clinical experience in the management of all
types of cancers and offers several courses and tutorials in relevant clinical
and basic sciences.



 **Program Requirements**



Beginning July 1, 2019 all programs across Cananda transitioned to the
competency-based medical education approach of the Royal College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Canada (RCPSC) called Competence by Design (CBD).  CBD will
break down specialist education into a series of integrated stages – starting
at transition to discipline and moving through practice.  The stages are
below:



Entry to residency  
---  
_**MD**_  
Transition to discipline (orientation and assessment)  
Foundations of discipline  
Core of discipline  
**Royal College Examination**  
Transition to practice  
Certification  
Continuing professional development (maintenance of competence and advanced
expertise)  
Transition out of professional practice  
  
              

 Trainees with obtain clinical experience, in both inpatient and outpatient
settings in all of the following:

Breast cancer

Gastrointestinal cancers

Genito-urinary cancers

Gynecologic cancers

Head and neck and thyroid cancers

Lymphoma/hematologic cancers

Central nervous system and eye cancers

Soft tissue and bone cancers

Skin cancers

Thoracic cancers

Pediatric radiation oncology

Benign conditions treated with radiotherapy

A minimum of one block in a community-based radiation oncology practice



Please see the Royal College National Standards for training AFTER 1 July
2019**:**

**[Competencies](https://www.royalcollege.ca/content/dam/documents/ibd/radiation-
oncology/radiation-oncology-competencies-e.pdf)**

**[Training
Experiences](https://www.royalcollege.ca/content/dam/documents/ibd/radiation-
oncology/radiation-oncology-rte-training-experiences-e.pdf)**

Program Content  
  

The breadth and scope of the patient volume at McGill University provides an
ideal environment for clinical training.  Residents are assigned to site-
specific clinical rotations practicing under the supervision of attending
physicians.  Although training occurs largely in a one-on-one, apprenticeship-
like format, residents progressively acquire increasing responsibility while
they refine their skills in evidence-based management and independent
decision-making.  In-patient exposure is obtained as a consultant when on call
and on in-patient service.



In addition to the clinical exposure, residents actively participate in
numerous quality assurance activities including patient management rounds,
morbidity and mortality rounds, site-specific quality assurance meetings (peer
review), and multidisciplinary tumour boards.



Education activities consist of highly protected regularly scheduled
activities.  The focus is on creating a stimulating, collaborative, and
engaging environment for all trainees.  These activities include radiation
oncology half-day teaching sessions, Multidisciplinary Oncology Resident
Education (MORE) sessions, journal clubs, applied physics sessions, clinical
physics case reviews alongside medical physics residents, brachytherapy
teaching sessions, quality improvement and radiobiology seminars.  Formal
courses in physics and radiobiology are integrated into the formal teaching
curriculum.  Frequently, residents are released from clinical duties to attend
high profile, site-specific local conferences and Visiting Professor series
which attract internationally renowned speakers to McGill.



Physician wellness has been prioritized by McGill and residents have full
access to The Well Office.  As well, Radiation Oncology Ice Cream rounds are
held regularly to discuss resident wellness topics in a safe and relaxing
environment. Career counselling and wellness topics are discussed at a yearly
residency program retreat.



The McGill Radiation Oncology Program is mainly distributed over two main
sites:  The Jewish General Hospital (JGH), and the Cedars Cancer Centre of the
McGill University Health Centre (MUHC) – Glen Site.  The former is part of the
Segal Cancer Center, and the latter is located at the brand new, state-of-the-
art MUHC facility which consolidated 5 Montreal hospitals onto one colossal
site in 2015.  McGill Radiation Oncology Faculty at the JGH and MUHC have been
world leaders in areas such as high-dose rate brachytherapy, stereotactic
radiosurgery, intraoperative radiation, and intensity-modulated treatment.

**Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada: Applying competency-
based practices to residency education**



To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/competence-design-e), aims to enhance
patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving
patient needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education
process.

CBD will use [time as a
framework](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e)
rather than the basis for progression. It is not anticipated that the duration
of training will change for the majority of trainees. Residency programs will
be broken down into
[stages](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/documents/cbd/cbd-competence-
continuum-diagram-legal-e.pdf), and each stage will have a series of
milestones based on required competencies. These milestones will create more
targeted learning outcomes and involve more frequent, formative assessments
within the clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving
feedback on the skills they need.

The Royal College anticipates that all specialty and subspecialty programs in
Canada will adopt CBD in gradual phases. All disciplines have been divided
into seven cohort groups, each of which will adopt CBD at different times. It
is anticipated that national implementation of CBD within certain, individual
programs could begin as early as July 2017 - with more disciplines to
following in subsequent years.  The Radiation Oncology  residency program will
begin on July 1st 2019.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and
traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification. Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs
will include the completion of a Royal College examination; however, residents
in CBD programs will also be assessed against program milestones throughout
their training. Within a CBD program, all milestones (documented within an
electronic portfolio) and the Royal College examination must be successfully
completed to achieve certification.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).





* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

-Ceders Cancer Centre - MUHC Glen Site

-Montreal General Hospital

-Royal Victoria Hospital

-Jewish General Hospital

-Montreal Children's Hospital

-Montreal Neurological Institute

-Centre hospitalier de Gatineau

Others eg. University of Laval and/or University of Montreal teaching
hospital.  Electives may be arranged at outside centres including, Cité de la
Santé and Charles Lemoyne.

* * *

# Additional Information

Residents are encouraged to pursue electives in interprovincial or
international academic sites.

Residents may choose a rotation in a peripheral, non-affiliated radiation
oncology centre upon approval of the Program Director.





Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27094?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27094