#  NOSM University - Pediatrics - West (Thunder Bay & Sault Ste. Marie)  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Gautam Kumar  

Address c/o Program Coordinator  
Postgraduate Education  
935 Ramsey Lake Road  
Sudbury, ON P3E 2C6, Ontario  

Work  (705) 662-7106

Websites of Interest [ NOSM University Pediatric Program
](https://www.nosm.ca/pediatrics)  
[ NOSM U Pediatrics Residency Program Video: What's it like training at both
NOSM U and CHEO? ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aRBi_PchQN4)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Catherine Duchesne

Title: Postgraduate Coordinator

Email: cduchesne@nosm.ca

Phone: (705) 662-7106

  

* * *

# Important Information

**NOSM University Pediatric Program Information Session**

**Date:**  Tuesday, October 22nd, 2024

**Time:**   8:00PM to 9:00PM EST

**Brief outline of session:**   _This presentation is focused on providing
medical students interested in pediatrics an overview of the NOSM U Pediatric
program.   There will be a didactic introduction about the program, which will
be delivered by the Program Director, chief resident(s) and residents.
Participants will then have the opportunity ask any questions._

**Join Webinar link:  [Virtual Session
Link](https://nosm.webex.com/nosm/j.php?MTID=mefb45f44d5eb7aeabb94ea3f8081f90d
"Virtual Session Link")**

Webinar number/Access code: 2432 805 1257

Webinar password: dKsGCaXs229

Join by phone: +1-855-699-3239 CANADA/US TOLL FREE / +1-647-798-0132 TORONTO
LOCAL



**NOSM University Pediatric Program Information Session**

**Date:**  Wednesday, October 23rd, 2024

**Time:**  6:30PM to 7:30PM EST

**Brief outline of session:  **_This presentation is focused on providing
medical students interested in pediatrics an overview of the NOSM U Pediatric
program.   There will be a didactic introduction about the program, which will
be delivered by the Program Director, chief resident(s) and residents.
Participants will then have the opportunity ask any questions. This session is
the same as the October 22nd, 2024_ _  information session._

**Join Webinar link:  [Virtual Session
Link](https://nosm.webex.com/nosm/j.php?MTID=m17818ae43e33ca4e33d3b0f076b9be7b)**

Webinar number/Access Code: 2437 901 8544

Webinar password: Eu8ksWhmZ26

Join by phone: +1-855-699-3239 CANADA/US TOLL FREE/+1-647-798-0132 TORONTO
LOCAL



**COVID-19 vaccination policy**

Please be aware the Ministry of Health has mandated all hospital and health
care employers establish, implement and ensure compliance with a mandatory
COVID-19 vaccination policy.  The Ministry directive can be reviewed
[here.](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.health.gov.on.ca%2Fen%2Fpro%2Fprograms%2Fpublichealth%2Fcoronavirus%2Fdir_mem_res.aspx&data=04%7C01%7Cpatricia.houston%40utoronto.ca%7C86b6b0a226f740b1308008d981b97b64%7C78aac2262f034b4d9037b46d56c55210%7C0%7C0%7C637683457388702741%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C2000&sdata=3SetpoSaa6BS0yUqTQ6BsmJN%2FILDWyHNgstp6ZGWkeM%3D&reserved=0)
Residents matched to any Ontario residency program must ensure they are able
to comply with the Ministry directive in order to start training July 1, 2025.  

It is important to understand this is an evolving issue. You are required to
review Provincial, Hospital, University and Program information to ensure you
are in continued compliance with directives.  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

_Canadian Citizenship:_

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided by submitting one of
the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.  Failure
to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.  No
other forms of verification are acceptable.

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of the card must be provided and legible.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. Reference letters must be written by
clinical teachers and/or faculty who have reasonable knowledge of you, either
through close association in clinical training situations or as your faculty
advisor. References should provide an assessment of your medical knowledge,
clinical skills, interpersonal skills, ability to communicate effectively,
your attitudes toward learning, commitment to Pediatrics, and personal
suitability.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

The program requires the following three questions be individually addressed
by all candidates.  Each answer should be a maximum of 250 words.

  1. Tell us why we should choose you for the NOSM University pediatric program. Please tell us about the attributes that make you a good candidate for this program specifically, not just pediatrics in general. Where do you see your career taking you in 10 years?
  2. Describe a time when you were faced with a diﬃcult or challenging situation and discuss how you dealt with the situation and what you learned from the experience.
  3. Tell us about the achievement you are most proud of, how it inﬂuenced your decision to do pediatrics.

**_If your  transcript/CV indicates academic difficulty, failure(s), repeat of
a year or any gaps in your education or work history please attach a
supplementary statement to the END of your Personal Letter entitled
"Transcript/CV Addendum" explaining the above._**

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Once all of the files have been reviewed, applicants being offered an
interview will be contacted to confirm the date and interview details. Only
those applicants being offered interviews will be contacted.  
  
**An email notification will be sent at 12:00 p.m. noon ET on Monday, January
13, 2025.**

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: **Interviews will be held virtually on the
following date(s):**  
  
Monday, January 20, 2025 (IMG & CMG)  
  
Tuesday, January 21, 2025 (CMG)  
  
Wednesday, January 22, 2025 (CMG)  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will be conducted by
Pediatric Faculty and current residents in the Pediatric program.  
  
Community information will be available and there will be opportunities for
virtual discussion with current residents.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

  * Candidates for the Pediatric Residency Program at NOSM Univerisity are selected on the basis of: a demonstrated interest in Pediatrics, desire to train in a variety of clinical settings including both northern Ontario and Ottawa, demonstrated interest in advocacy and social pediatrics, strong interpersonal skills, and a commitment to self-directed learning. The program is looking for candidates who are hardworking, adaptable and enjoy change.  
  
  

  * The NOSM University Pediatrics Program promotes equal opportunity to all eligible candidates applying to the program, regardless of where they have completed their MD training. We encourage all applicants, and accept residents into the program with or without prior exposure to northern Ontario or medical training in the north. Therefore, candidates from the North and/or those who have trained in the North are not given exclusive consideration in the selection process.

  * All clinical experiences, including mandatory rotations and electives, will be considered in the application/assessment process.

## Program goals

Our vision is to train residents who have the skills and attitudes necessary
to deliver excellent, culturally respectful health care in any setting,
including northern Ontario and other rural communities. Our program strives to
meet the social accountability mandate of NOSM University through our social
pediatric curriculum which provides hands on training in advocacy as well as
mandating an advocacy project.

We strive to deliver a comprehensive curriculum that provides exposure to
clinical learning experiences in both Northern Ontario and world-class
tertiary care/subspecialty training in Ottawa. Our program aims to provide a
supportive learning environment that allows our residents to focus on their
individual career objectives, and develop into highly skilled, knowledgeable,
and professional pediatricians. Our graduates are well prepared to practice as
general pediatricians in any setting, but are also well-positioned to pursue
pediatric subspecialty training if that better meets their career goals.

## Selection process goals

Through our selection process, the program aims to identify candidates who
have a strong academic history with demonstrated competence and interest in
pediatrics (e.g., pediatrics rotations, electives, scholarly activities,
conference involvement and other related work or life experiences). We are
seeking candidates who are interested in health advocacy and are able to think
creatively about ways to address the social determinants of health. Candidates
should possess superior clinical communication skills and have the ability to
relate to patients, their families, and caregivers with compassion, empathy,
sensitivity and humility.

We are looking for candidates who possess the ability and willingness to work
collaboratively (within and across professional domains) and exemplify the
highest standards of professional behavior -- inclusive of responsibility,
respect, and self-awareness.

We are also looking to identify candidates who would be a good ﬁt for our
program. Candidates best suited to the NOSM University Pediatrics program are
those who can adapt and thrive in a hands-on, distributed residency program
that requires ﬂexibility and travel away from their primary residence. We
believe that candidates who are resilient, committed to self-directed learning
and can prioritize their personal well-being are well suited to the program.
Through our selection process we aim to identify and successfully match
candidates who possess these attributes.

## File review process

Review team composition : Each application is reviewed and scored
independently by two faculty members and the Program Director. Members of our
ﬁle review team are the Program Director and Site Directors.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
We average approximately a combined total of 70 applications between both
streams.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  
We typically interview an average of 45-50 candidates.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Academic & work background/experiences, personal/academic/professional accomplishments   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  *See below   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Personal interests, volunteerism, previous job experience   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Any leadership roles held throughout training should be outlined in the CV   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Pediatrics rotation competencies, any academic/personal/professionalism concerns   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Suitability to program   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Performance, knowledge/clinical skills, character, attitude towards learning, suitability   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Past research experiences, achievements, interest in participating in future scholarly activity   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Strength of academic record, academic failures, any red flags or other concerns   
Other file component(s) |  Electives: Pediatrics elective(s), diverse range of electives relevant to the program (FM, Psych), rural and/or northern an asset  
  
Transcript/CV Addendum:  
If any part of your application indicates academic difficulty, failure(s),
repeat of a year or any gaps in your education or work history, a
supplementary statement at the END of your Personal Letter is required. Please
entitle your statement as "Transcript/CV Addendum", explaining the above.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Demonstrated ability to work well in a team setting/multidisciplinary environment   
Collegiality |  Personable, respectful towards others, values the importance of a supportive/collegial atmosphere   
Communication skills |  Able to communicate responses clearly and concisely, can communicate well with others   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrated interest in advocacy work   
Interest in the discipline |  Genuine passion for Pediatrics and future practice goals   
Interest in the program |  Knowledgeable about our program, training sites, northern Ontario patient populations and challenges   
Leadership skills |  *See below   
Professionalism |  Conducts themselves in a professional manner, self-aware, unbiased, morally/ethically responsible   
Scholarly activities |  We do not formally evaluate this component during the interview   
Other interview component(s) |  *Leadership skills: Qualities such as: proactive/takes initiative, accountable, innovative, motivated and goal-oriented, resilient and flexible  
  
Problem-Solving Skills: Overcoming challenges, conflict resolution, ability to
rationalize and take appropriate action.  
  
Personal Attributes: Personal characteristics and interests, experiences,
learning style/attitude towards learning.  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  In keeping with the CanMEDs roles, please note that throughout the
entire application and interview process, your interactions with NOSM
University personnel may be taken into consideration by the program in their
selection process and ranking decisions.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

This four year residency program improves upon the traditional tertiary
center-based training model by providing residents with extensive training
opportunities in northern urban centers under the supervision of general
pediatric consultants. In addition to world- class subspecialty and acute care
rotations at the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO), the northern
rotations provide the learner with extensive opportunities to develop the
skills necessary to fulﬁll all of the CanMEDS roles. By honing their clinical
and problem-solving abilities in a preceptor supervised environment, distant
from extensive subspecialty support, residents have the opportunity to develop
into conﬁdent, practical, skilled clinicians. A full exposure to tertiary
subspecialty and acute care rotations is maintained throughout the residency.

Although the philosophy of training in this program has been developed from
the practice of general consultant pediatricians, upon completion of the
program, residents will be well positioned to pursue subspecialty training if
they choose or embark upon a career in general consulting pediatrics.

Residents are required to provide their own vehicles.  

Residents are required to provide their own laptop computers during residency.

Distance learning in the northern centers is enabled by state-of-the-art
telemedicine facilities. Resources and opportunities for additional learning,
including electives and conferences, will also be made available.

The following represent the highlights of our program:  
  

  * A unique and challenging hands-­on learning experience.

  * Unparalleled preceptor support from physicians committed to practicing in Northern Ontario. Early integration as a key member of an integrated health care team dedicated to professionalism, high quality patient care and excellent medical education.

  * Commitment to resident learning.

  * Commitment to the NOSM University social accountability mandate with hands on teaching in social advocacy

  * Self-­directed, learner-­centered training to meet your career goals.

  * Financial support for resident travel to and from core clinical placements away from the home base and all mandatory educational activities at non home base locations.

  * Housing support for core rotations away from primary residence.

  * Opportunity to participate in research under expert guidance.

  * Funding available for research, professional development and conferences.

  * Access to advanced technology and informatics in residency training.

  * 24/7 access to electronic search engines, electronic indexes as well as an extensive collection of electronic medical/health journals and textbooks.

  * Exceptional lifestyle balance with a wide variety of outstanding Northern Ontario recreational opportunities.



**For residents beginning in July 2021, the Competence By Design (CBD)
curriculum will be officially launched. The 4 stages of CBD  are mapped over 4
years, after which residents can choose to apply to a subspecialty.** The
program has been piloting CBD for over two years now, and has gained much
experience in the new design.
(<https://www.royalcollege.ca/content/dam/documents/ibd/pediatrics/epa-guide-
pediatrics-e.pdf>)

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The program meets the pediatric training requirements for certification by the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada and the American Board of
Pediatrics, and the licensing requirements of the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Ontario. The Competence By Design (CBD) curriculum launched in
2021. The 4 stages of CBD are mapped over 4 years, after which residents can
choose to apply to a subspecialty or enter practice.

<https://www.royalcollege.ca/content/dam/documents/ibd/pediatrics/epa-guide-
pediatrics-e.pdf>

**Clinical Curriculum**

The following is a basic outline of the four years. Each block is 4 weeks and
there are 13 blocks over the course of the year.

Please note, this is just an outline and there may be some changes over the
course of the residency. Additionally, training schedules in northern Ontario
will also vary depending on the site.



**PGY1 Outline (CBD Stages TTD & FOD):**

Homebase/northern sites: Northern Consulting Pediatrics plus one opposite site
- 7 Blocks

CHEO/Ottawa site: Subspecialty (2), Pediatrics Wards JR, Pediatric Emergency
Medicine JR, Pediatric General Surgery – 5 Blocks

Elective: 1 Block



**PGY2 Outline (CBD Stages FOD & CORE):**

Homebase/northern sites: Northern Consulting Pediatrics plus one opposite site
- 6 Blocks

CHEO/Ottawa site: Subspecialty (2), PICU, Perinates, Surgical Subspecialty
Outpatient/Research & Night Float – 6 Blocks

Elective: 1 Block



**PGY3 Outline (CBD Stage CORE):**

Homebase/northern sites: Northern Consulting Pediatrics, Child Maltreatment &
Social Pediatrics (Sioux Lookout) – 6 Blocks

CHEO/Ottawa site: Subspecialty, PICU, NICU, Pediatrics Wards SR, Pediatric
Emergency Medicine SR, Research & Night Float – 6 Blocks

Elective: 1 Block



**PGY4 Outline (CBD Stages CORE & TTP):**

Homebase/northern sites: Northern Consulting Pediatrics - 7 Blocks

CHEO/Ottawa site: Subspecialty, Night Float SR, PICU, NICU – 3 Blocks

Elective: 3 Blocks

**Seminars and Rounds**  
---  
  |  Residents will have a half day per week protected time for academic teaching sessions. These sessions are all delivered virtually and mostly consist of small group learning sessions with one didactic lecture per block.   Three to five times per year, residents will gather in one of the northern centres  for face to face learning sessions, simulation sessions, OSCEs and social  events. Protected time to attend Grand Rounds broadcast by the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario by videoconference will be available. Residents will participate actively in the departmental academic and morbidity and mortality (M&M) rounds at northern locations. Residents attend a northern based morning report and noon rounds, with all the northern sites, while in the north.  
  
**Research**  
  |  All residents in the program are expected to complete a scholarly project prior to the completion of training. NOSM University has resources available to support resident research in addition to those available in Ottawa. Several opportunities for practical research meaningful to the local communities and under expert guidance are available.  
  
* * *

# Training Sites

Northern teaching sites include Thunder Bay, Sault Ste. Marie, North Bay and
Sudbury. A rotation in Sioux Lookout is part of the core program.
Subspecialty, PICU, Pediatric Emergency, Pediatric Surgery, CTU and NICU
rotations will be completed in Ottawa.

Housing options are available for residents who must reside in communities
outside their “home base” during mandatory rotations.

**Please note that applicants who match to the Pediatrics  West stream will be
required to select either Thunder Bay or Sault Ste. Marie as their home-
base/location of primary residence.**

####  
Sudbury

Welcome to Sudbury, the largest city in Northern Ontario, with a vibrant
population of 168,000. Health Sciences North (HSN) is the regional referral
hub for over 600,000 people in northeastern Ontario, providing top-notch
pediatric services through the NEO Kids and Family Program. The pediatric ward
and NICU at HSN feature 12 general pediatric beds and a Level 2C Neonatal
Intensive Care Unit with 10 beds, ready to care for neonates from 29 weeks
gestation onwards.

Our pediatric consultations span emergency, labor and delivery, district
hospitals, and family physicians’ offices. Sudbury’s team of 10 pediatricians
offers a range of specialty clinics including Diabetes, Cystic Fibrosis,
Neonatal Follow-Up, Pediatric Oncology, and Spasticity, plus outreach clinics
in Espanola and Manitoulin. We also host visiting specialists like pediatric
allergists, cardiologists, and rheumatologists.

Join us for an unparalleled experience in high-volume consulting pediatrics
without immediate access to tertiary care centers or subspecialists. Here,
you’ll manage a diverse array of pediatric cases with greater independence,
allowing you to build strong clinical skills and critical thinking. You will
benefit from one-on-one mentoring and tailor clinical experiences to your
learning goals by working with our outstanding group of pediatricians. Our
state-of-the-art SIM lab at HSN also ensures you gain invaluable hands-on
practice with high-quality simulation and procedures. Learners can also get
involved with various research projects through Health Sciences North Research
Institute.

Beyond the hospital, Sudbury is a playground for nature enthusiasts and
adventure seekers. Nestled on the Canadian Shield, the city boasts over 300
lakes, perfect for paddling, swimming, boating, and winter skating. Enjoy a
morning ski at Kivi Park, beach volleyball at Moonlight Beach, or mountain
biking along the rocky terrain in Walden. Sudbury’s vibrant arts and cultural
scene offers year-round musicals, plays, festivals, and fantastic dining
options.

Fall in love with Sudbury, where your medical career and outdoor adventures
await.

[**https://wanted.nosm.ca/sudbury/**](https://wanted.nosm.ca/sudbury/)

#### North Bay

Welcome to North Bay, the true “Gateway to the North”. We are just north
enough to be perfect, nestled between two of Northeastern Ontario’s most
stunning lakes and surrounded by forests. We are located only 3.5 hours north
of Toronto and 4 hours west of Ottawa. North Bay is surrounded by the beauty
of nature, art and culture and offers something for everyone to experience.

From its beginnings as a settlement of the Nipissing First Nation, North Bay
has been a transportation centre. The building of the CPR, the CNR, and the
ONR Railways, established North Bay as the major transportation centre for the
region. The arrival of the railways opened markets for natural resource
activities in the area. As mining and lumber industries developed in the
nearby regions, North Bay became a supply and a regional centre for education
and

health care. Today, North Bay’s excellent location sits at the crossroads of
major highways, railways, and air carriers. Residents of North Bay and area
enjoy fresh air, abundant clean water, plenty of green space for outdoor
activities and low density living with all of the benefits of full urban
services.

We have a vibrant local arts scene with multiple community theatre groups,
choirs, bands, as well as pottery or knitting classes. You can take in
experiences touring galleries and museums as well as our own symphony and
visiting performers at the Capitol Centre. The opportunities for physical
activity is nearly endless and changes with the seasons. We have both downhill
and cross country skiing, snowshoeing, Fat biking, curling, an extensive
snowmobile trail

system here and ice fishing for pickerel can’t be beat on our local lakes.
There are incredible biking, hiking and camping locations both within and
surrounding the city within an hours drive. Summer brings us to our lakes for
swimming at the beaches, canoeing and kayaking, paddle boarding and fishing.
There are multiple golf and tennis opportunities in the city. Pickleball and
dodge ball leagues are taking over and softball, ultimate frisbee, volleyball
and dragon boating are popular adult activities. If watching athletics are
more your style, we have an OHL hockey team as well as University teams that
compete at high levels in hockey, basketball and volleyball.

We like good food here and whether you are looking for a delicious cup of
coffee, a great local craft beer, outdoor dining, farm to table restaurants or
a gourmet food experience, then North Bay is the place! In the summer months
we have over 100 vendors at our outdoor Farmers’ Market on Wednesdays and
Saturdays and for winter the Market heads indoors on Saturdays.

For families we have great programming at many local festivals, libraries,
museums, indoor playground, many parks, splash pads, a miniature train and
carousels and a large number of extracurricular activities.

North Bay Regional Health Centre is a modern acute care and regional mental
health centre with 430 beds spread across our campuses. The pediatric services
are located within the main hospital building. We have 8 pediatric beds, an 8
bed Level 2C NICU, a busy emergency room as well as outpatient rooms for
pediatric clinics and procedures. Our office clinic is located within One Kids
Place, the local Children’s Treatment Centre. We have office spaces for our
learners and use an electronic health record for documentation. Several of our
paediatricians have special interests and we run speciality clinics in
Developmental assessment, Botox clinics for youth with cerebral palsy,
Diabetes clinics for both Type 1 and 2 diabetes and elective sedations are
done at the hospital. We are currently building our capacity to run school
based clinics, child protection clinics as well as allergy clinics.

Our pediatric group currently consists of 6 members who run the general
consulting pediatric service. We also have a community pediatric
gastroenterology physician who we work closely with. We are generalists who
take care of pediatric patients with a wide variety of conditions, from acute
medical issues to mental health and developmental disorders. Our distance from
tertiary care means that we provide the front line care to patients and
collaborate as needed with our tertiary colleagues. Our goal is to provide an
excellent level of compassionate and evidence based care. We run regular
journal clubs and Mock codes and invite learners to participate in these with
us to enhance all of our skills. We have been a teaching site for pediatric
learners long before there was a medical program in the north and have a
commitment to high quality teaching. Learners will work with a small group of
physicians who get to know you well and who can foster early independence
within a highly supportive environment. As we do not depend on learners for
service, we can be flexible to provide the experiences needed by the learner.
We encourage collaboration, discussion and joint learning. We invite you to
join us to share in the privilege of caring for our patients.

North Bay is a great place to live if you enjoy the outdoors and want larger
city amenities while maintaining a sense of small, safe community. We look
forward to welcoming you to not only great learning but also great living.

<https://wanted.nosm.ca/north-bay/>

#### Thunder Bay

Thunder Bay is situated on Lake Superior, in northwestern Ontario. The city
has a population of approximately 110,000 and serves as a referral centre for
the vast northwestern Ontario region and many rural and remote Indigenous
communities.

Thunder Bay Regional Health Sciences Centre (TBRHSC) has a busy pediatric
inpatient unit as well as NICU (serving neonates born at 30 weeks gestational
age and above). Given Thunder Bay’s location/remoteness to tertiary pediatric
care, pediatricians here are responsible for being involved in the
stabilization of ICU level patients (while having support via collaboration
with tertiary care specialist). TBRHSC is in the midst of starting a pediatric
transport team, which is an exciting opportunity to become involved with
transport medicine.

The 10 pediatricians here offer generalized pediatric care, in both outpatient
and inpatient domains, with some also offering specialized clinics (allergy,
diabetes, bleeding disorders, and gender care). Some pediatricians also travel
to remote sites with potential opportunities to travel to these sites as well
if desired.

Thunder Bay is built on the traditional territory of the Anishinabek, which
includes the Ojibwa of Fort William First Nation. Thunder Bay and region
offers beautiful outdoor landscapes with the Sleeping Giant as the background.
There are plenty of outdoor activities, including: world class cross country
skiing, hiking, mountain biking, and even downhill skiing. With close access
to many lakes there is great fishing, paddling, and back country camping
nearby. If the outdoors isn’t for you, there are also more urban activities
within the city, with amazing local restaurants, as well as many different
acts that come through our community auditorium.

We hope to see you here!

<https://wanted.nosm.ca/thunder-bay/>

####  
Sault Ste. Marie

Sault Ste. Marie is the third largest city in Northern Ontario with a
population of approximately 80,000. “The Sault” is situated on the St. Mary’s
River at the epicentre of the upper Great Lakes. We share our name, our river,
and our community with Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan, which is just across the
international bridge. Sault Ste. Marie is the seat of the Algoma District,
which stretches over 50,000 km2 along lakes Superior and Huron with a sparsely
distributed population of 120,000.

One of the oldest communities in Canada, Sault Ste. Marie is situated on the
lands of the Anishinabek nation, serving for centuries as a gathering place
for trade amongst Indigenous peoples. The community evolved from a small
French fur trading post to a busy industrial centre with the construction of
the lock system, railway, and steel plant, always retaining its identity as a
place of trade between nations.

Today Sault Ste. Marie is still known for its steel making, and has
diversified into a vibrant multicultural community with influences from First
Nations, French, English, mid-century Italian immigrants, and a global
community of newcomers.

We have surprisingly great food for our rurality, and a well-developed outdoor
adventure scene. The Sault is also one of a dwindling number of global
communities with four truly distinct seasons. While summer is glorious all
over Northern Ontario, and there are plenty of winter activities to enjoy, the
Sault’s main tourist season is actually the fall when nature puts on a jaw-
dropping fireworks display. Best to bring your hiking boots, bathing suits,
skis, skates, paddles, and mountain bikes.

The handful of pediatricians in Sault Ste. Marie are all true generalists who
are skilled in acute care, neonatology, ward medicine, complex and chronic
disease management, mental health, behaviour, and development. With the
nearest tertiary care centre 700 km away, our scope of practice extends to
include many of the patients who would ordinarily be seen in subspecialty
clinics in Southern Ontario. We regularly collaborate with distant
subspecialists in the care of complex patients.

The Sault Area Hospital is a new regional centre with 8 pediatric beds and 10
Level 2 NICU beds, serving newborns of 30 weeks gestation and up. All
pediatric clinics are located at the Group Health Centre, the largest multi-
specialty ambulatory care centre in the province, serving tens of thousands of
patients. The GHC features real time in-person collaboration with providers
across all disciplines and health professions, as well as a shared state-of-
the-art EMR, on-site diagnostic imaging and lab. Several of our pediatricians
have special interests so we offer "specialty" diabetes clinics, pediatric
dermatology clinics, developmental clinics, elective sedations, and even
cardiology and peds echo.

Our teaching philosophy is a high degree of independence, always paired with
backup and support. We do not depend on learners for service so the experience
can be tailored to a learner’s needs. We place a high priority on wellness,
and above all we believe that pediatric medicine is fun! Join us and fall in
love with our community and our shared profession in Sault Ste. Marie.

<https://wanted.nosm.ca/sault-ste-marie/>

####  
Ottawa (CHEO)

Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO) is a tertiary care children's
hospital that provides the only pediatric inpatient services in the Ottawa-
Carleton region, and serves a referral population of over 1,500,000. The
training program in pediatrics, based at CHEO, has excellent patient volume
and diversity in both the inpatient and outpatient units. The site offers
exposure to primary, secondary and tertiary level models for provision of care
to children. CHEO is a medium-sized hospital which provides a work environment
that is friendly and supportive. World class specialists and subspecialists
come together to provide excellent care, research and education to the
pediatric population of the region.

* * *

# Additional Information

  
---  
**Overall program**  
  |  The program outlined above may be modified or taken in an alternative sequence based upon discussions between the resident and the program director. Any changes MUST allow the resident to complete the appropriate curriculum to meet accreditation standards and spend the appropriate amount of time in the Northern locations.   To learn more about northern Ontario, please visit the "[Wider Campus of the Northern Ontario School of Medicine](https://www.nosm.ca/our-community/wider-campus-of-the-northern-ontario-school-of-medicine/)" webpage.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26367?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26367