#  University of Manitoba - Public Health and Preventive Medicine including
Family Medicine - Winnipeg  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Lisa Richards  

Address Community Health Sciences  
Max Rady College of Medicine  
S111-750 Bannatyne Ave  
Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3E 0W3  

Work  PHPM@umanitoba.ca

Work

Websites of Interest [ Community Health Sciences
](https://umanitoba.ca/medicine/department-community-health-sciences)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Lisa Richards

Title: Program Director

  

Name: Dr. Tamara Buchel

Title: Family Medicine Program Director

  

Name: Crystal Swain

Title: Program Administrator

Email: PHPM@umanitoba.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

PGME Mandatory Orientation Day for new trainees will be held on Thursday, June
26th, 2025.

Public Health and Preventive Medicine Orientation will be held in July 2025.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

You are required to fulfill ALL of the most current Provincial Criteria for
Canadian Medical Graduates for Manitoba.

The criteria can be found at:  <https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

The personal letter should outline your experiences and interest in Public
Health and Preventive Medicine, and goals for postgraduate training and future
work in the specialty of Public Health and Preventive Medicine.

Custom Résumé / CV

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

Transcripts for ALL post-secondary education will be required. Please send
non-medical school transcripts directly to CaRMS.

Optional - will be reviewed

Graduate Transcript (Master/PhD Degree)

Please include if you have taken any Masters or PhD level courses.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 31, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Public Health and Preventive Medicine
interviews will be held on Friday, January 31, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Applicants selected for an interview
will be contacted by the program.  
  
Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.  
  
Details regarding the interview process: The interview is conducted by a panel
consisting of the Program Director, one or more rotation preceptors
(practicing Medical Officers of Health), and the Lead Resident. The interview
will only begin once the applicant has entered the interview room with the
panel and will end after leaving the interview room. No other questions before
or after this interview will be used in evaluating the applicant's interview.  
  
Applicants selected for an interview will have the opportunity to meet with
one or more current residents in the program to ask any questions you may have
regarding the program, the university, or living in Winnipeg, Manitoba. These
conversations are not part of the interview evaluation and will not be used in
any way to determine ranking in the CaRMS process.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The Public Health and Preventive Medicine Residency Program at the University
of Manitoba is committed to a fair, equitable, and transparent application
process. We maintain the right to choose the applicants we feel are the best
people for our residency training program. The following criteria will be used
as a baseline to determine who will be considered for an interview. However,
not all applicants whose files meet our minimum criteria will be offered
interviews; only the top candidates will be offered an interview.

An interview is mandatory.

Specific criteria include:

  * Must be a graduate of a Canadian medical school.
  * Must either be a Canadian citizen or have permanent resident status
  * Must have demonstrated interest and experience in community/population/public health.
  * Reference letters must be dated no later than one year from time of receipt. Undated reference letters will not be accepted.
  * Demonstrated ability to be organized as evidenced by a complete application that is in accordance with our stated expectations. Extraneous documents are not needed and may lower your file assessment score.

## Program goals

Residents in Public Health and Preventive Medicine must develop a
comprehensive knowledge of the sciences of Public Health and Preventive
Medicine, and the skills to apply this knowledge to a broad range of community
health issues in the socio-political and cultural contexts in which they
occur. They must demonstrate the knowledge, skills and attitudes relating to
socio-economic status, gender, culture and ethnicity of the populations with
which they work. In addition, all residents must demonstrate an ability to
incorporate these factors in research methodology, data presentation and
analysis.

During training, all residents will be expected to acquire a substantial
knowledge of and necessary skills in: concepts of health and illness and their
determinants, methods in community health, health services organizations,
collaboration within and outside the health care system, program planning and
evaluation, communication and advocacy. In addition, residents are encouraged
to develop a higher level of expertise in an area of interest, including
acquiring knowledge through course work or other special training.

The University of Manitoba is committed to the social justice principles of
equity, access & participation and to promoting opportunities for systemically
marginalized groups who have been excluded from full participation at the
University and the larger community including Indigenous, Black, racially
marginalized Peoples, persons with disabilities and those who identify as
2SLGBTQIA+ (Two Spirit, lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, questioning, intersex,
asexual and other diverse sexual identities) and women.



## Selection process goals

The successful applicant to our program will have displayed appropriate
competency for level of training in all of the CanMEDS roles:

Medical Expert - ability to apply medical knowledge, clinical skills, and
professional values in their provision of high-quality and safe patient-
centred care.  
Communicator - ability to communicate effectively to patients, families, and
members of the healthcare team.  
Collaborator - ability to work effectively with other health care
professionals and individuals outside of the health care professions.  
Leader - ability to engage with others to contribute to a vision and take
responsibility for the delivery of excellent services.  
Health Advocate - ability to determine and understand needs, speak on behalf
of others when required, and support the mobilization of resources to effect
change.  
Scholar - demonstrate a commitment to excellence in practice through
continuous learning and by teaching others, evaluating evidence, and
contributing to scholarship.  
Professional - demonstrate commitment to ethical practice, high personal
standards of behaviour, accountability to the profession and society, and
maintenance of personal health

An inclusive, open and diverse community is essential to excellence and
fosters voices that have been ignored or discouraged. To address the Rady
Faculty of Health Sciences commitment to equity, access and participation, and
in recognition of the underrepresentation of members of historically and
currently excluded groups, our program has taken the following proactive
measures as part of our selection process:

  * Implicit bias training for selection committee members
  * Offering necessary accommodations during the interview process
  * Second pass/review of applicants below interview and rank order list cut off to review for possible bias in scoring
  * Orientation to all assessors to scoring rubrics
  * File review completed by dedicated, trained group

We strive for diverse perspectives and cultural safety throughout the hiring
process (resident selection committees, short-list of applicants, interviews).
We ask all applicants to include an EDIA statement in their personal letter
with evidence demonstrating their own commitment to EDIA in their work and
training thus far.

## File review process

Review team composition : Review team composition: There will be 3 to 4
members on the review team- the program director, the Lead Resident, and up to
two practicing medical officers of health who are also resident supervisors in
the program.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Looks professional without grammatical errors; Evidence of scholarly and leadership activities   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Evidence of interest in the field of Public Health and Preventive Medicine   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Applicable examinations   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Interest in activities outside of the formal educational environment   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Examples of leadership roles and skills   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Any academic difficulties in Medical School or issues with professionalism   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Evidence of interest in and knowledge of the field of Public Health and Preventive Medicine   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Evidence of CanMEDS related competencies - may be in areas outside of Medicine   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Evidence of scholarly activities   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Any academic difficulties in Medical School or issues with professionalism   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Examples of ability to work well in a team   
Collegiality |  Examples of ability to work well in a team   
Communication skills |  Ability to understand questions being asked and communicate in a clear and concise manner   
Health advocacy |  Experience with this would be considered as an asset.   
Interest in the discipline |  Sought out exposure to the discipline and ability to think at the community and population level   
Interest in the program |  Reasons for interest in University of Manitoba program   
Leadership skills |  Example of leadership role applicant has had   
Professionalism |  Punctuality, general professional working attire, general professional communication   
Scholarly activities |  Example of scholarly activity   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The University of Manitoba's Public Health and Preventive Medicine program
offers a diverse range of training opportunities based on residents' interests
and needs. Strengths of the program, and the Department of Community Health
Sciences in which it is based, include well-established educational rotations
with experienced regional medical officers of health and the Chief Provincial
Public Health Officer, with rotations that focus on rural, northern and
Indigenous populations.

Please see our informational Video here:

[Department of Community Health Sciences - University of Manitoba
(youtube.com)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nI7DDn-33pg)

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

This residency program includes an option to complete a basic clinical
training year specific for our residents. Alternately, a resident may opt to
complete the Family Medicine residency program for the first two years of our
program.

The program is designed to fulfill the Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Canada General and Specific Training Objectives for Public Health
and Preventive Medicine. There are three main components to the curriculum:
clinical, academic, and applied field training.

 **1\. Clinical component**

Residents entering the program at the PGY-1 level are required to complete at
least one year of clinical training. This can include a basic clinical
training year tailored for Public Health and Preventive Medicine residents.
Supplementary clinical experience is available in a variety of areas,
depending on interests and career plans. Alternately, a resident may opt to
train in the Family Medicine residency program (2 years), leading to
eligibility for certification in family medicine (CCFP).

**2\. Academic component**

One year full-time (typically in PGY-3) is spent on academic coursework in a
Master of Public Health (MPH) or other related Masters program (e.g. Master of
Science in Community Health Sciences, Master of Clinical Epidemiology, etc).
Enrolment in a broad range of courses are encouraged, including but not
limited to: applied epidemiology, advanced biostatistics, principles of
occupational and environmental health, program planning and evaluation,
economic evaluation of health care, and the epidemiology of cancer, chronic
disease, and communicable disease. Residents may opt for completion of a MSc
or MPH within the Department of Community Health Sciences at the University of
Manitoba, where the costs are covered by the residency program. Alternately,
enrolment in a Masters program at another university can be accommodated upon
approval by the program director (reimbursement would be equivalent to the
cost of a Masters program at the University of Manitoba).

**3\. Applied field training**

The remaining training time (typically in the PGY-4 and 5 years) is spent in
field rotations under the supervision of regional and provincial Medical
Officers of Health. Residents take on a greater degree of responsibility over
this period, assuming a high level of responsibility by their senior year.

Core rotations include: Urban Medical Officer of Health; Rural Medical Officer
of Health; Northern Medical Officer of Health, Provincial Public Health Branch
(includes Chief Provincial Public Health Officer); Provincial Public Health
Laboratory; Occupational Health; First Nations and Inuit Health Branch.

Elective rotations are developed individually based on resident interests.

 \-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Other residency program activities and requirements include:

**Academic Half Day**

  * 1- 4 pm on Fridays
  * Scheduling done by the program director, program administrator and lead resident
  * Includes teaching sessions by guest presenters (MOHs, CHS staff, and other individuals working in public health or a public health related field), as well as resident presentations

**Journal Club**

The Winnipeg Regional Health Authority holds a monthly journal club (critical
appraisal), which can be attended in person or by teleconference. Residents
are expected to attend journal club in their senior years of residency, and to
present at least once per year starting in the PGY-3 year.

**Medical Student Teaching**** **

There is an expectation of involvement with teaching medical students during
the residency training. This includes but is not limited to the following
activities:

  * Being a tutorial leader for various public health/community health sciences sessions
  * Delivering a lecture (optional)
  * Co-facilitating a workshop at Harvest Manitoba
  * Co-supervising medical students on public health electives
  * On invitation from the student-run Public Health Interest Group (PHIG), give a talk on the residency program or public health issues, depending on their request

**Lead  & Senior Resident**

Every resident will have the opportunity to become Lead / Senior Resident
during the residency program, for a variable period (usually 12-24 months)
sometime during the senior years of residency (R4-R5). Duration and timing of
being Lead Resident is dependent on the number of residents, as well as their
stages in training, and will be determined by the program director.

Responsibilities of the Lead / Senior Resident include, but are not limited to
the following:

  * Helping the Program Director to organize Academic Half Days
  * Attending the Residency Program Committee (RPC) meetings quarterly, and providing a Lead Resident report
  * Meet with medical students interested in information on the residency program
  * Participate in the CaRMS process as an interviewer of residency candidates
  * Providing guidance and information to junior residents



* * *

# Training Sites

The academic year (PGY-3) is typically completed within the Department of
Community Health Sciences: <https://umanitoba.ca/medicine/department-
community-health-sciences>. Residents typically complete the MPH program, but
some residents have completed the MSc program.

Alternate sites for a resident’s academic year are available upon approval by
the program director.

The applied training sites include:

  * 6 months of urban MOH training at the Winnipeg Regional Health Authority (WRHA)
    * 490 Hargrave St., Winnipeg, MB
  * 6 months of provincial MOH training at Manitoba Health
    * 300 Carlton St., Winnipeg, MB
  * 2 months of rural MOH training in Interlake-Eastern Regional Health Authority (IERHA)
    * residents will commute to Stonewall (589 3 Ave S, Stonewall, MB)
  * 2 months of training at First Nations & Inuit Health Branch (FNIHB)
    * 300-391 York Ave, Winnipeg, MB
    * usually one trip to a FNIHB community
  * 2 months of training with Northern Regional Health Authority (NRHA)
    * 300 Carlton St, Winnipeg, MB
    * usually one trip to northern Manitoba
  * 1 month of training at Cadham Provincial Lab
    * 750 William Ave, Winnipeg, MB
    * gain exposure to all the departments in the provincial lab
  * 1 month of training in Occupational Health
    * Based primarily at Workplace Safety & Health - 401 York Ave, Winnipeg, MB
    * includes outings to workplaces





Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26393?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26393