#  University of Calgary - Anesthesiology - Calgary  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 05, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 8

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Edward Choi  
Dr. Debbie McAllister  

Address Department of Anesthesiology, Perioperative and Pain Medicine  
Foothills Medical Center  
Room C229 C, 1403 29 Street NW  
Calgary, Alberta, T2N 2T9  

Work  (403) 944-1991

(403) 944-2425

Websites of Interest [ University of Calgary Department of Anesthesiology,
Perioperative and Pain Medicine
](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/departments/anesthesiology/education/postgraduate-
opportunities/anesthesiology-program)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Debbie McAllister

Title: Program Director

Email: debbie.mcallister@ahs.ca

  

Name: Dr. Edward Choi

Title: Associate Program Director, CBD

Email: Edward.Choi@albertahealthservices.ca

  

Name: Ms. Anca Petri

Title: Program Administrator

Email: Anesthesiology.Residency@ahs.ca

Phone: 403-944-1991

  

Name: Mrs. Camille Adams

Title: Program Administrator (2)

Email: anesthesiology.residency@ahs.ca

Phone: 403-944-1488

  

* * *

# Important Information

Any information included on all documents submitted to CaRMS, as well as all
interactions throughout the CaRMS process, may be taken into account during a
candidate's review and assessment.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

All sections of the application must be completed.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Reference letters should be written by physicians who are well acquainted with
your knowledge, communication skills, clinical performance, and
professionalism.

No more than three reference letters will be included in your file; any extra
letters submitted will be discarded randomly.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

 There are 3 parts to the personal letter. Please answer all 3 parts (500 word
limit will be strictly enforced, and points will be deducted if exceeded).



  1. How do you demonstrate the qualities of an excellent anesthesiologist?
  2. What has surprised you the most about your medical training so far?
  3. What interests you about doing your anesthesiology residency in our program?



Word Limit will be strictly enforced.**Points will be deducted for letters
over 500 words.**



Questions that must be answered if relevant (not part of word limit):

  1. Please provide an explanation for any unsatisfactory performances during medical school.
  2. If this is not your first time applying to our program, please explain what has changed since your previous application, and what you have learned from that experience.
  3. If you failed to match to a residency training program in a previous iteration of CaRMS, please explain why you believe that occurred, what has changed since your previous application, and what you have learned from that experience.
  4. Please provide an explanation for any leaves of absences that may have occurred during your medical school training.







Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Custom Résumé / CV

This should be submitted electronically through CaRMS, and it must be a
**distinct document**  from your CaRMS application.

Abstract/Publications

Please submit **copies of all abstracts and publications listed in** your
**application** and/or **CV**.  This should be submitted as a **single scanned
document** , and the **first page** of this document should **list the title
of each abstract/publication in** the **order** that it appears **in the
scanned document** ; please also clearly **state which projects** were **done
during medical school** , and **which projects** were done **prior to medical
school**.

If you are unable to provide a copy, please **do not** list the abstract or
publication in your application and/or CV.

Certificate

Please provide **copies of any certifications listed in** your **application**
and/or **CV**.  This should be submitted as a **single scanned document** ,
and the **first page** of this document should **list the title of each
certificate  in the order that it appears** in the scanned document; please
also clearly state **which** **certificates**  were **awarded during medical
school** , and which **certificates**  were **awarded prior to medical
school**.

If you are unable to provide a copy, please **do not** list the certification
in your application and/or CV.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Please submit a photo taken since **January 2020**.  Note that this photo will
be used as a reference/reminder during our selection process.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All files are reviewed by multiple individuals.  Files are ranked and scored
by a group of reviewers using a predetermined scoring rubric.

All applications that are complete and submitted by the published deadline
will be reviewed.

Once all files have been reviewed, the Selection Committee will choose the
applicants to be invited for interviews.  All applicants will be notified of
their status via e-mail as early as possible.  Our program maintains an
interview waitlist, and candidates will be notified if an opening for an
interview becomes available.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: The date for the Calgary interview is
determined through discussion with other Anesthesiology Program Directors.
There are no alternative dates for an interview.  Please note that interviews
will be conducted virtually.  
  
In the event that an interview position becomes available after the initial
interview invitations have been distributed, we will invite applicants for an
interview in accordance with their ranking order based on the file review
(i.e. from our waitlist).  Note that the interview is weighted sufficiently
such that significant movement up the rank order is possible with a strong
interview.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Final ranking is done by committee. All aspects of a candidate's application,
interactions with the program, and interview are taken into consideration.

## Program goals

A successful applicant to our program will have documented interest in (and
aptitude for) Anesthesiology.  They will be enthusiastic about joining our
program and will help maintain the excellent learning atmosphere here.  They
will be intelligent, hardworking, collegial, highly professional, self-
motived, and open to feedback.  They will have a solid foundation of medical
knowledge as well as great written, verbal and nonverbal communication skills.
They will be responsible, reliable, and professional, and will be the type of
person we will want to hire on staff upon completion of training.

## Selection process goals

- honesty, integrity, responsibility and compassion

\- insight and the capacity to learn from past experiences

\- capacity for self-directed learning

\- strong work ethic and strong team skills

- a strong academic record across a wide range of fields

- excellence in communication and interpersonal skills, a capacity for team work, and enthusiasm for learning

- comprehension of the practical aspects of a career in anesthesiology

- demonstrated technical aptitude

- well-rounded character demonstrated by extracurricular activities and interests

## File review process

Review team composition : 30 faculty members from all sites in Calgary and
senior residents

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  academic and professional achievement, research, employment, leadership, community engagement, innovation.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Not evaluated other than information about performance available on MSPR   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not specifically evaluate this file component outside of MSPR and transcripts   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Well rounded individuals with interests outside medicine.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Demonstrated leadership skills within or outside medicine.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Performance in all CanMEDs domains across all areas of the curriculum.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Written communication skills, insight, understanding of anesthesiology as a career   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Evidence of well developed skills across all CanMEDS domains and in more than one discipline.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interests in academic work outside MD curriculum, ability to work in a research team and complete projects.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Broad academic success   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We will not be considering electives in our file review
to ensure that the process is fair and equitable for all candidates.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Skills that suggest the candidate will be successful during residency and as a practicing physician.   
Collegiality |  Skills that suggest the candidate will be successful during residency and as a practicing physician.   
Communication skills |  Skills that suggest the candidate will be successful during residency and as a practicing physician.   
Health advocacy |  Willingness to advocate on behalf future patients and their communities   
Interest in the discipline |  Sufficient interest and understanding of the discipline to be successful in residency and beyond.   
Interest in the program |  Thorough understanding of our program   
Leadership skills |  Skills that suggest the candidate will be successful during residency and as a practicing physician.   
Professionalism |  Skills that suggest the candidate will be successful during residency and as a practicing physician.   
Scholarly activities |  Potential to contribute to our speciality and profession in the future   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Calgary is the major referral site for southern Alberta, parts of central
Alberta, southwestern British Columbia and southeastern Saskatchewan.
Delivery of care and training of residents is undertaken primarily at four
adult hospitals (Foothills Medical Centre, Peter Lougheed Centre, Rockyview
General Hospital and South Calgary Health Campus) as well as our pediatric
facility, the Alberta Children’s Hospital.  All surgical services, other than
major transplant and pediatric cardiac surgery, are provided in the city.  The
proximity of Calgary to the mountains makes our program particularly
attractive to those looking for an outdoor lifestyle.

Our training program continually strives to achieve an optimal balance of
general and specialist focused training, clinical experience and non-operating
room instruction, tertiary care and community experiences, rigorous training
and resident wellness.  Our goal is to attract honest, intelligent and
innovative students and guide them into becoming well-rounded physicians who
possess the specialized knowledge and skills required in modern anesthetic
practice.  We regularly re-evaluate our program in order to optimize the
educational experiences of our residents, and to ensure that their skills will
meet the future needs of the specialty and society at large.  We embrace
progressive methods to accomplish these goals, and our faculty work together
with our residents to accomplish the shared goal of producing excellent
anesthesiologists.

Resident wellness and resilience are priorities for our program. We recognize
that residents need to be healthy and well in order get the most out of
learning experiences and perform at their best. Our residents are encouraged
to 'think big' and 'aim high’ and appreciate that residency is a unique
chapter in their lives during which they can pursue broad educational and
professional endeavours. As part of our CBD model of training, each resident
is assigned an academic coach who will work with the resident to ensure that
they are following a trajectory to competence. During regular meetings with
the Program Directors, residents are encouraged to discuss ways in which the
program can assist them to meet their goals.

Our program is designed to enable residents to be able to confidently work
well independently the day they graduate from our program, and to be in the
best position possible to pursue the fellowship opportunities that they
desire.  Our residents work closely with program leadership and faculty
members to ensure that their professional goals are achieved, and that they
will have reached their full potential at the completion of their residency
training.



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Anesthesiology Residency Program at the University of Calgary successfully
implemented CBD based training in 2017.

* * *

# Training Sites

Hospital teaching sites associated with our program include the Alberta
Children’s Hospital (ACH), the Foothills Medical Centre (FMC), the Peter
Lougheed Centre (PLC), the Rockyview General Hospital (RGH), and the South
Hospital Campus (SHC). Residents also benefit from the unique experiences
provided in a variety of non-hospital facilities, such as the Chronic Pain
Clinic and Accredited Non Hospital Surgical Facilities.  Training done outside
of these centers must satisfy the regulations of the RPC, PGME Office, and the
RCPSC.



The hospitals in Calgary serve a population of at least 1.5 million living in
the Calgary area, southern Alberta, and parts of British Columbia and
Saskatchewan. FMC is a designated level 1 adult trauma and tertiary care
centre, and ACH is a pediatric referral site. All major surgical sub-specialty
services are provided in Calgary. Anesthesia services are also provided for
non-surgical treatments such as electroconvulsive therapy, electrical
cardioversion, and invasive radiological procedures. Residents participate on
the Code Team and Trauma Team at FMC, and have the opportunity to work with
STARS Air Ambulance and Pediatric Transport teams during elective time. In
addition, multidisciplinary Pre- Admission Clinics (PAC) and Acute Pain
Services (APS) operate out of the affiliated teaching hospitals.

* * *

# FAQ

Please refer to our [Program
Manual](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/sites/default/files/teams/35/2024-2025%20Anesthesiology%20Residency%20Program%20Manual%20-%20Aug%202024_FINAL.pdf)
for a detailed description of our program.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27428?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27428