#  University of Manitoba - Neurosurgery - Winnipeg  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Annie Drapeau  

Address Section of Neurosurgery, Department of Surgery  
University of Manitoba  
GB1 - 820 Sherbrook Street  
Winnipeg , Manitoba, R3A 1R9  

Work  204-787-8044

Fax

Websites of Interest [ University of Manitoba, Section of Neurosurgery
](http://www.manitobaneurosurgery.com/)  
[ University of Manitoba, Section of Neurosurgery
](https://umanitoba.ca/medicine/department-surgery/neurosurgery-residency)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Annie Drapeau

Title: Program Director

Email: adrapeau@hsc.mb.ca

  

Name: Tora Young

Title: Program Administrator

Email: neurosurg@umanitoba.ca

Phone: 204-787-8044

  

* * *

# Important Information

The Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation for all residents, which is
MANDATORY, will be held on**  Thursday, June 26, 2025.**

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

If you have any questions regarding application to the Neurosurgery
Postgraduate Training Program at the University of Manitoba, please contact
our Program Administrator,**  neurosurg@umanitoba.ca  
**

The criteria can be found at:  <https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

3 letters of reference are required, although more will be accepted if
available.  Ideally, letters of reference should be received from a faculty
neurosurgeon at a University where the candidate has trained or completed an
elective.  References from a non-neurosurgical faculty member whom the
candidate has worked with extensively are also desirable.  Letters from
residents are accepted, but faculty references are strongly recommended.+

Ideally, the letters of reference will provide a judgement of
suitability/reflection of skills for the neurosurgery discipline.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

The personal letter is a chance for the applicant to outline why they became
interested in neurosurgery and wish to pursue it as a career and to provide
information not available in other parts of the application.  Outside
interests and hobbies can be described.  

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 22, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: The interview dates are nationally
coordinated.  Interviews at the University of Manitoba will take place on
Wednesday January 22nd, 2025**  
**  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The interview schedule is co-
ordinated nationally by all neurosurgical training programs.  
  
Each candidate will have a series of individual interviews with neurosurgical
faculty, as well as 2 residents in the program and will be held virtually.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Individuals are selected based on a demonstrated interest in Neurosurgery and
the Neurosciences, as well as their ability to work with an interprofessional
team and a broad range of interest and experience is encouraged.  An on-site
neurosurgical elective is encouraged.  



## Program goals

The Neurosurgery Resident Training Program at the University of Manitoba seeks
to provide the highest quality neurosurgical care to patients while supporting
the educational, research, health and wellness needs of our residents. The aim
of the program is to provide the best possible environment, technology,
facilities and human resources in order to facilitate comprehensive
neuroscience-based education and neurosurgical training of residents, along
with medical students and clinical fellows.

## Selection process goals

A successful applicant will demonstrate a mature, dedicated and self-directed
approach to acquiring the knowledge and technical skill set required for
Neurosurgery. Effective communication skills and a team-based attitude are
essential to working within an interdisciplinary team of care providers.
Successful applicants will have elective experience in Neurosurgery and the
Neurosciences, with an interest in ongoing research and academics.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is comprised of the Program Director
and faculty/resident members of the Residency Program Committee (RPC).

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Ability to work with teams; Leadership potential; Research experience; Extra-curricular; Interests.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  At least one formal elective in Neurosurgery; on-site electives are encouraged.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  No additional assessment required   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Interests relating to, and also outside of, medicine.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership potential.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Applicant should be in good standing at their respective medical school.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  No specific format is requested here.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Three (3) letters of reference are required, although more will be accepted if available.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Publications, chapters, posters, etc (to assess for interest/potential for research).   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Applicant should be in good standing at their respective medical school.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We prefer applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

At least one elective in Neurosurgery is encouraged with a broad range of
interest and experience. Due to COVID-19, we understand that onsite electives
may not have been possible.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Capacity for dedicated team-work; Participation in an interdisciplinary team.   
Collegiality |  Reliability; Honesty; Integrity.   
Communication skills |  Effective; Compassionate.   
Health advocacy |  No additional assessment required   
Interest in the discipline |  Interest in Neurosurgery and/or the Neurosciences. Demonstration of realistic expectations and knowledge of the neurosurgery discipline.   
Interest in the program |  On-site neurosurgical elective is encouraged; Knowledge and interest specific to our program.   
Leadership skills |  Potential for leadership.   
Professionalism |  Ethical decision-making; Honesty; Capacity for self-directed learning.   
Scholarly activities |  Academic performance in medical school; Interest/potential for research/scholarly pursuits.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  Any other situation, either witnessed or reported, wherein an
applicant's professionalism and honesty are found to be compromised.  
Any other situation, either witnessed or reported, wherein an applicant's
suitability or skills for the neurosurgery discipline are felt to be grossly
lacking.  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Residency Training Program**

The Health Sciences Centre and Winnipeg Children’s Hospital are the main sites
associated with the Neurosurgery Residency Training Program at the University
of Manitoba. These are equipped with modern diagnostic equipment including 1.5
and 3T MR imaging (including an intra-operative MRI Suite, i.e. IMRIS), high-
resolution CT scanning and angiographic capabilities. Health Sciences Centre
is also home to Canada's first Gamma Knife unit.

During their training, residents are exposed to the full range of
neurosurgical subspecialties, including epilepsy, neuro-oncology, vascular,
spinal, pediatric, trauma and functional neurosurgery.The Section of
Neurosurgery is composed of expert fellowship-trained neurosurgeons, each with
an area of expertise, providing engaged teaching and mentorship. In addition
to clinical neurosurgery, residents rotate through neurology, neuroradiology
and neuropathology, along with other surgical and medical subspecialties.
Throughout their six years in training, residents are given increasing
responsibility, culminating in oversight of the functioning of the
neurosurgery unit during their final chief resident year.

Residents are also encouraged to undertake research projects throughout their
training. An optional research year is included within residency training in
the program. Residents generally elect to conduct this research within their
PGY 3 or PGY 4 year. Those residents who are interested in an academic career
are advised to take an advanced degree, and may be supported through the
Clinician Investigator Program at the University of Manitoba. Some trainees
choose to enroll in the Masters of Science Program open to residents in
Surgery at the University of Manitoba.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 6 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Curriculum - PGY 1 to 6**  

PGY1 and 2

The PGY-1 and 2 years are designed to fulfill the requirements as set out by
the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, as they relate to core
training in the Surgical Foundations Program. This includes a maximum of 18
blocks to be undertaken in Neurosurgery, and includes additional core
rotations in Critical care, Emergency medicine, General Surgery, Plastics
Surgery, and/or other disciplines required to achieve competency in the
Surgical Foundations Program and in the neurosurgery Transition to Discipline
and Foundations of Discipline competency-based phases.  
  

PGY3 to 6

A formal 52 months of Neurosurgical training is incorporated in the PGY-3 to 6
years, focusing on an incrementally-graded increase in clinical responsibility
and duties. During this time, there are expectations for regular participation
on ward rounds, the operating room and in clinics. By the completion of
residency, the resident will be proficient in the surgical and non-surgical
management of all general types of neurosurgical conditions, in both adult and
pediatric patients. Given the breadth of expertise across the 10 clinical
faculty members, additional sub-specialty exposure to all facets of
Neurosurgery is also provided.  During these years of training, the residents
will achieve competency in the Core of Discipline and Transition to Practice
phases of the Neurosurgery competency-based training program.

During the PGY3 to PGY6 years of Neurosurgery training,  the residents will
have the opportunity to rotate on Neurology and Neuropathology.

PGY4 Research/Elective Year

There is an opportunity in PGY4 to pursue up to 13 periods (1 year) of
clinical or basic research training. Former trainees have used this time to
pursue a M.Sc. or Ph.D. program, as supported by the Clinician Investigator
Program, or to pursue a focused elective year in a subspecialty of choice.

This experience is typically planned well in advance, together with
recommendations from the Program Director and Residency Program Committee, and
must satisfy one of the following Royal College specifications as it relates
to:

  * Neurosurgery
  * Related clinical or basic neuroscience disciplines
  * Clinical or basic research
  * Other scholarly activities

For those interested in research, further time may be spent obtaining an
advanced degree.  The Department of Surgery offers a Masters of Science in
Surgery program that residents are encouraged to consider.  

Among other programs, the University of Manitoba offers specialized research
programs in basic spinal cord physiology, minimally invasive spine, neuro-
oncology, epilepsy, health policy and hydrocephalus.



**Competency-Based Medical Education**

As of July 2019, residents entering Neurosurgery will participate in
competency-based training through the Competence by Design (CBD) educational
initiative of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/portal/page/portal/rc/resources/cbme/resources/videos_webinars),
aims to enhance patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong
learning with evolving patient needs and empowering learners to more fully
engage in their education process.  
  
CBD will use time as a framework rather than the basis for progression. It is
not anticipated that the duration of training will change for the majority of
trainees. Residency programs will be broken down into
[stages](http://www.royalcollege.ca/portal/page/portal/rc/common/documents/resources/cbd_competence_continuum_diagram_legal_e.pdf),
and each stage will have a series of milestones based on required
competencies. These milestones will create more targeted learning outcomes and
involve more frequent, formative assessments within the clinical workplace to
ensure residents are developing and receiving feedback on the skills they
need.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and
traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification. Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs
will include the completion of a Royal College examination; however, residents
in CBD programs will also be assessed against program milestones throughout
their training. Within a CBD program, all milestones and the Royal College
examination must be successfully completed to achieve certification. For more
information, please contact [cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).



**Seminars**

The typical resident curriculum consists of weekly Wednesday morning rounds,
with a formal academic half-day on Fridays.  Didactic teaching with a formal
curriculum spanning the breadth of Neurosurgery occurs on a regularly
scheduled basis, with exams at the end of each block.

Additional case-based seminars are routinely held in the following forums:

  * Refractory Epilepsy Conference
  * Pediatric Neurosurgery Rounds

  * Winnipeg Spine Program Rounds
  * Radiosurgery Rounds

  * Vascular Rounds

  * Neuropathology Rounds

  * Adult and Pediatric Neuro-Oncology Rounds  
  

  * Pituitary Tumor Rounds



A Journal Club is also held on a regular scheduled basis during the academic
year.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Resources**

The neurosurgical unit of the Health Sciences Centre and Children's Hospital
represents the only referral centre for the province of Manitoba, as well as
Northwestern Ontario and Nunavut. This single site for all neurosurgery makes
it possible to develop uniform protocols for the treatment and long term
follow-up of patients with various neurosurgical disorders.

The Health Sciences Centre and Winnipeg Children's Hospital have modern-day
diagnostic equipment including 1.5 and 3T MR scanning, CT scanning and
angiographic units. The first Gamma Knife unit in Canada was instituted in
2003, and continues to be used in the treatment of benign and metastatic
tumors, vascular malformations and other conditions.

The recent purchase of a robotic guidance system (ROSA) and the recent
expansion of the epilepsy monitoring unit will continue to the epilepsy
surgery program, for adult and pediatric patients.

There is a full complement of full-time adult and pediatric neuroradiologists,
and three full-time neuropathologists. A very close link is maintained with
Adult and Pediatric Neurology, offering excellent collaboration across all
disciplines.

There is a strong core of neuroscience teaching and research at the University
of Manitoba and its affiliated Medical School, the Kleysen Centre for Advanced
Medicine, and the Children's Hospital Research Institute of Manitoba.
Moreover, there is strong foundation backing provided by the Health Sciences
Centre Foundation, Children's Foundation and St. Boniface General Hospital
Research Foundation.

  


* * *

# FAQ

We do not accept late applications.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27276?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27276