#  University of British Columbia - Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology -
Vancouver

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 20, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Jonathan Bush  

Address Pathology and Laboratory Medicine  
BC Children's & Women's Hospital  
4500 Oak St  
Vancouver , British Columbia, V6H 3N1  

Work  (604) 875-3057

Websites of Interest [ UBC Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine
](http://www.pathology.ubc.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: Program Contact

Name: Shelley Berkow

Title: Program Manager

Email: shelley.berkow@pathology.ubc.ca

Phone: (604) 875-4111 ext. 23125

  

* * *

# Important Information

  * We provide training in Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology (DMP) (formerly Anatomical Pathology) within the requirements of the Royal College of Physician and Surgeons of Canada (RCPSC) and the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME)
  * The DMP program is 5 years (60 months/260 weeks)



This program is suited for those who want to pursue an academic, non-academic,
or small-community practice.

**CBD Track PGY1:**

Residents will begin their training by completing a one block orientation at
Vancouver General Hospital (VGH) within the Department of Pathology and
Laboratory Medicine (DPLM). This allows the PGY1 residents to meet one
another, their senior residents, and core teaching staff at VGH. Basic skills
in pathology will be taught. PGY1 residents will then complete four
consecutive blocks of clinical rotations based out of the Basic Clinical Year
(BCY) training sites, including St. Paul's Hospital (SPH) and Royal Columbian
Hospital. Rotations will be focused on pathology-related fields, and may span
experiences in surgery, medicine, and oncology. Residents will return in block
6 to enter their general DMP training. During these first six blocks,
residents will be expected to complete the majority of their "Transition to
Discipline" and "Foundation" EPAs. Upon completion of these first 6 blocks,
residents will move through predominantly subspecialty rotations at VGH or
SPH.



**More info on CBD:  [CBD Cheat Sheet](file:///C:/Users/sberkow/Downloads/cbd-
cheat-sheet-e.pdf)**

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

** **

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required and should be written by faculty
members or consultants, preferably from specialists in any of the areas of
Pathology and Laboratory Medicine. A reference from a senior resident will not
be accepted

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter indicating why the candidate is interested in Pathology is
required.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews dates:  Jan 20 & 21, 2024  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Over the course of the interview day,
applicants will be interviewed by staff members and residents. Questions will
include reasons for wanting to be a Diagnostic & Molecular Pathologist and
career plans.  There will also be a separate opportunity for applicants to
talk to current residents.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

At UBC, we are committed to training pathologists who will ultimately be
serving our population.

On completion of the education program, the graduate resident will be
competent to function as a consultant Diagnostic & Molecular Pathologist.
Residents must demonstrate the knowledge, skills and attitudes relating to
gender, culture and ethnicity pertinent to diagnostic & molecular pathology.
In addition, all residents must demonstrate an ability to incorporate gender,
cultural and ethnic perspectives in research methodology, data presentation
and analysis.

## Selection process goals

An acceptable academic record is required.  
A proven interest in Diagnostic & Molecular Pathology, preferably demonstrated
by electives or research.  
All candidates should have acceptable letters of recommendation, preferably
from specialists in Diagnostic & Molecular Pathology, or other areas of
Pathology and Laboratory Medicine.  
Candidates must have good communication skills and ability to work with a wide
variety of people.

## File review process

Review team composition : Program Director  
Associate Program Director  
4-6 Site Directors/Staff  
1 Lead Residents

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Education, Electives, Research, Publications   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Electives in our specialty, Evaluations   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering (medical and non-medical), mentoring, other   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Holding office in a student government, club or organisation   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstrated Interpersonal Skills   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in discipline, program location   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interaction with colleagues, other medical team members, and support staff   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in participating in future research projects   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic Performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Working in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Behavior, attitude, ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak and write clearly in English   
Health advocacy |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated interest and ability in the specialty;   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest in the program   
Leadership skills |  Ability to initiate programs, lead organizations or groups, and make an impact   
Professionalism |  Correspondence with staff and chief residents; behavior and attitude during interview   
Scholarly activities |  An interest in research   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

1) Multiple core training sites throughout Vancouver, representing a diverse
patient population, as well as numerous elective opportunities in community
hospitals throughout the province of British Columbia

2) Large and diverse case volume

3) Dedicated teaching faculty with routine one-on-one teaching as well as
regular group teaching rounds

4) Abundant opportunities for research, with internal funding for research and
presenting at national and international meetings

5) Strong training in Molecular Pathology and opportunities to participate in
advanced diagnostic methods including Digital Pathology utilizing artificial
intelligence.







**AREA OF SPECIAL INTERESTS (PGY5)  
**

** **

At UBC, the program has incorporated a “mini-fellowship” opportunity into the
5th year of the DMP residency program, to be available to residents after
successfully completing the Royal College oral exam. This "Area of Special
Interest" (ASI) program involves 4 blocks of fellowship-type learning in one
of the approved DMP subspecialties, which includes nearly all surgical
pathology, cytopathology, autopsy, and administration domains. The ASI may be
based out of a number of hospitals across the Lower Mainland and throughout
BC, where opportunities exist to work with dedicated pathologists who have
agreed to participate across the province. The workday and sign out is
designed to be similar to what a resident may expect as a fellow, with much of
the focus being on consultations and challenging cases. Although this training
won't replace a full fellowship, residents may choose to pursue an ASI to
prepare them for a future fellowship, prepare them for the ability to sign out
a second service in addition to their future fellowship, or address a speciﬁc
need that their future employer has identiﬁed that requires additional
expertise. Residents will receive the ASI designation on their UBC PGME
graduation certificate.







* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Introduction  
** The goal of the UBC Diagnostic & Molecular Pathology Residency Training
Program is to prepare our residents to practice pathology, whether in the
community, tertiary care or academic setting. Residents are provided with
comprehensive training in all areas of anatomical pathology. Our training
encompasses the newest diagnostic tools and technologies available including
genomics and proteomics. Our philosophy is that pathologists are an integral
part of the clinical decision making team and that it is our role to provide
all relevant interpretive information. With the advances in molecular
pathology, the role of the pathologist is to ensure new clinically relevant
information is incorporated into the diagnosis so that treatment can be
optimized. **Residency Training Overview  
**  
---  
        |  **CBD Track PGY1:** Like other residency training programs, all  Diagnostic & Molecular Pathology Residency training across Canada underwent a major change in July 2019.  Residents who start their training from 2019 onwards enter under the new Competency Based Medical Education model called Competence By Design (CBD).  Applicants can find more information about CBD on the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada website: [ https://www.royalcollege.ca/en/cbd/understanding-cbd/what-is-cbd.html](https://www.royalcollege.ca/en/cbd/understanding-cbd/what-is-cbd.html) Residents will begin their training by completing a one block orientation at Vancouver General Hospital (VGH) within the Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine (DPLM). This allows the PGY1 residents to meet one another, their senior residents, and core teaching staff at VGH. Basic skills in pathology will be taught. PGY1 residents will then complete four consecutive blocks of clinical rotations based out of the Basic Clinical Year (BCY) training sites, including St. Paul's Hospital (SPH) and Royal Columbian Hospital. Rotations will be focused on pathology-related fields, and may span experiences in surgery, medicine, and oncology. Residents will return in block 6 to enter their general DMP training. During these first six blocks, residents will be expected to complete the majority of their "Transition to Discipline" and "Foundation" EPAs. Upon completion of these first 6 blocks, residents will move through predominantly subspecialty rotations at VGH or SPH.  
  
  


**PGY 2 to 5**  
---  
  |  The content of PGYs 2 to 5 will reflect and fulfill the applicable training requirements of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada for Diagnostic & Molecular Pathology. The first half of core DMP will include a mixture of rotating through nearly all subspecialty rotations and general DMP sign out rotations. Residents will be exposed to all subspecialties well in advance to be prepared to pursue a fellowship in any field if they so desire. Consolidation of information in lead up to the written exam will be done through individually selected rotations. After completing the examinations in the Fall of PGY5, residents will have the opportunity to tailor their Transition to Practice blocks towards future goals or needs for employment, or prepare for their upcoming fellowship.    
  


**TRANSITION TO PRACTICE (MINI FELLOWSHIPS)  
**

**AREA OF SPECIAL INTERESTS (PGY5)  
**

** **

At UBC, the program has incorporated a “mini-fellowship” opportunity into the
5th year of the DMP residency program, to be available to residents after
successfully completing the Royal College oral exam. This "Area of Special
Interest" (ASI) program involves 4 blocks of fellowship-type learning in one
of the approved DMP subspecialties, which includes nearly all surgical
pathology, cytopathology, autopsy, and administration domains. The ASI may be
based out of a number of hospitals across the Lower Mainland and throughout
BC, where opportunities exist to work with dedicated pathologists who have
agreed to participate across the province. The workday and sign out is
designed to be similar to what a resident may expect as a fellow, with much of
the focus being on consultations and challenging cases. Although this training
won't replace a full fellowship, residents may choose to pursue an ASI to
prepare them for a future fellowship, prepare them for the ability to sign out
a second service in addition to their future fellowship, or address a speciﬁc
need that their future employer has identiﬁed that requires additional
expertise. Residents will receive the ASI designation on their UBC PGME
graduation certificate.





**RESEARCH**

Residents are encouraged to initiate and participate in research, with
numerous research opportunities available.    Residents will be expected to
present at least once at the annual UBC Pathology Day during their residency.
Residents will be expected to submit an abstract to at least one national
and/or international conference and anticipate presenting this work.

For more information please see the link below:

[www.pathology.ubc.ca](http://www.pathology.ubc.ca)

**GENERAL PATHOLOGY**

**Status of the the UBC General Pathology Residency Program**

Please be advised that effective July 1, 2019 the General Pathology residency
program at UBC has been placed on inactive status.  This means that effective
July 1, 2019 UBC will only be accepting residents into the Diagnostic &
Molecular Pathology program and not into the General Pathology program.

**Program Director:**

Michael Nimmo, MD, FRCPC,

Dept. of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, VGH Hospital

* * *

# Training Sites

Teaching Hospitals

\- The Vancouver General Hospital is a 900-bed comprehensive teaching
hospital. It is a level 1 trauma centre and the major referral centre for the
province.

The BC Cancer Agency is responsible for cancer care for the people of B.C. The
Agency's cancer control program includes diagnosis, research, education, care
and treatment. BCCA is also the site of the Cervical Cancer Screening Program,
which screens over half a million PAP smears a year. The clinical Cancer
Genetics Laboratory provides services molecular testing for cancer patients in
BC. Additional information about BC Cancer Agency Laboratories can be found
at: <http://www.bccancer.bc.ca/HPI/labservices/default.htm>

\- BC Children's Hospital (BCCH) is a comprehensive pediatric teaching
hospital and the pediatric referral centre for the entire province of B.C.

\- St. Paul's Hospital is a busy downtown hospital serving an inner city
population.  The Downtown Eastside population is a unique population in
Canada.  Residents see a large volume of mixed medical problems in addition to
problems related to substance abuse.

\- BC Centre for Disease Control (BCCDC) is British Columbia's Centre of
Excellence for the prevention, detection and control of communicable diseases.
The BCCDC is the provincial reporting centre for reportable cases of
communicable diseases.

\- The Royal Columbian Hospital is a large community hospital located in New
Westminster, southeast of Vancouver. The emergency department census is in
excess of 60,000 per year. There is full complement of sevices including all
the medical and surgical specialties.

\- A number of other opportunities are available for residents to rotate at
hospitals throughout the province including multiple sites on Vancouver
Island, as well as within the Interior and Northern Health Authorities. All of
which provide great opportunities to work and learn with great mentors, while
getting the chance to enjoy the diverse peoples and geographies of BC!

Resources

The training program involves rotations through all of the teaching hospitals
in Vancouver and participating community hospitals. A rotation in a community
hospital is required.

Electronic medical resources: for residents doing rotations in UBC teaching
hospitals, there are computers with access to the internet, laboratory
information systems, digital imaging, presentation software and related
educational and research resources.

Specifically, the residents have access to a wide range of electronic
textbooks and resources available through the UBC Library online system.

* * *

# Additional Information

Quick Facts



  * Almost unlimited possibilities for electives are available within the overall structure of each of the laboratory medicine training programs, so long as the requirements of the Royal College are satisfied.
  * A conservative estimate of the ratio of residents to faculty is 1:10, depending on the exact specialty of laboratory medicine.
  * All laboratory medicine ratios are designed to optimize the service-to-education ratio for residents.
  * Electronic medical resources include: access to the Internet, laboratory information systems, digital imaging, presentation software and related educational and research resources.
  * For details of residency training program beyond PGY-1, see Program Curriculum.
  * For details on research requirements please see Program Curriculum.

* * *

# FAQ

1) What is the teaching like at UBC?  On an average day, residents sign out
cases with staff on a one-on-one basis, followed by grossing specimens and
previewing slides for the next day.  Organized teaching rounds include
Academic Half Day and multihead microscope teaching sessions.

2) What are the research opportunities at UBC?  There is a wide spectrum of
research opportunities for residents at UBC, ranging from review of small case
series to tumor genomics to the use of artificial intelligence in Pathology.
The program has internal funds for each resident research project, and money
is also available for residents to present their research at national and
international conferences.

3) Are there teaching opportunities for residents?  Residents are expected to
participate in teaching Pathology small group sessions for undergraduate
Medical students, and to participate in histology and pathology lectures to
programs affiliated with the Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine,
such as the Bachelor of Medical Laboratory Science students.

4) How many clinical blocks are done in PGY1?  First year residents are
required to complete four blocks of clinical medicine, including rotations in
Internal Medicine, Surgery and Oncology.

5) Where do UBC Diagnostic & Molecular Pathology residents typically go after
training?  Graduating residents typically do Fellowship training after
residency, and the program has a good track record of residents being accepted
into excellent fellowships (at Stanford, Memorial Sloan Kettering, Cleveland
Clinic, etc).  Many graduating residents come back to British Columbia for
staff positions.

6) What is the work/life balance like in the program?  While some rotations
can be busy, other rotations have a lighter workload that allows for residents
to enjoy all that Vancouver and British Columbia have to offer.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27060?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27060