#  NOSM University - Orthopedic Surgery - Thunder Bay  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Travis Marion  

Address c/o Program Coordinator  
NOSM Postgraduate Education - Ortho Surgery  
ATAC 6035A 955 Oliver Road  
Thunder Bay, Ontario, P7B 5E1  

Websites of Interest [ NOSM Orthopedic Surgery
](http://www.nosm.ca/orthopedicsurgery)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Ms. Brooke Snow

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: brsnow@nosm.ca

Phone: (226) 567-0565

  

* * *

# Important Information

**NOSM University Orthopedic Surgery Program – Information Night/Session**

Date: Thursday December 5th 2024

Time: 7:00pm - 8:30pm

_An information session on all things related to the NOSM University
Orthopaedic Surgery Residency Program. Staff and residents will be available
for the first half of the meeting, then transition to a residents-only meet
and greet with attendees. Come out and learn more about our great program!_



[Webex Link - December 5th 2024 CaRMS Virtual Information Night
](https://nosm.webex.com/nosm/j.php?MTID=m6526d7335c8a5a3c469f2f531ad865e6)





**COVID-19 Vaccination Policy**

Please be aware the Ministry of Health has mandated all hospital and health
care employers establish, implement and ensure compliance with a mandatory
COVID-19 vaccination policy.  The Ministry directive can be reviewed
[here.](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.health.gov.on.ca%2Fen%2Fpro%2Fprograms%2Fpublichealth%2Fcoronavirus%2Fdir_mem_res.aspx&data=04%7C01%7Cpatricia.houston%40utoronto.ca%7C86b6b0a226f740b1308008d981b97b64%7C78aac2262f034b4d9037b46d56c55210%7C0%7C0%7C637683457388702741%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C2000&sdata=3SetpoSaa6BS0yUqTQ6BsmJN%2FILDWyHNgstp6ZGWkeM%3D&reserved=0)
Residents matched to any Ontario residency program must ensure they are able
to comply with the Ministry directive in order to start training July 1, 2025.  

It is important to understand this is an evolving issue. You are required to
review Provincial, Hospital, University and Program information to ensure you
are in continued compliance with directives.  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Applications will be accepted through the CaRMS R-1 Main Residency Match
application process.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

_Canadian Citizenship:_

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided by submitting one of
the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.  Failure
to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.  No
other forms of verification are acceptable.

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of the card must be provided and legible.

Reference documents

Required

Orthopedic Surgery structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

**The personal letter (maximum  1000 words) should focus on the following:**

  * Your career interests / goals
  * experiences that led to your interest in Orthopedic Surgery ;
  * aspects of the NOSM Orthopedic Surgery Residency Program that interest you;
  * connections or personal qualities that make you an ideal candidate for training /practice in Northern and rural settings;
  * how you anticipate this program  will assist you in becoming an excellent Orthopedic Surgeon;
  * your greatest challenge if you are accepted into this program;
  * additional information about yourself that should be considered by the Selection Panel.

**_If your  transcript/CV indicates academic difficulty, failure(s), repeat of
a year or any gaps in your education or work history please attach a
supplementary statement to the END of your Personal Letter entitled
"Transcript/CV Addendum" explaining the above._**

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

  * Applications will be reviewed and scored independently by a combination of 2-4 program faculty members and residents.  Scores will be generated for each applicant and the program will offer interviews to approximately the top 30 CMG candidates and the top 10 IMG candidates.
  * All eligible applicants from medical schools in Canada and the U.S. will be considered.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 1, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: **Interviews will be held virtually on
Saturday, February 1st, 2025.**  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process:

Candidates who meet the selection criteria will be invited for an interview.

Candidates will participate in one panel style interview virtually. This
interview will be 20 minutes. Interview teams will be comprised of faculty
members including the Program Director and current NOSM Orthopedic Surgery
Residents ranging from PGY2 - PGY4.  Current PGY1 Orthopedic Surgery Residents
(non-interviewers) will be available as program ambassadors throughout the
interview day and are happy to share their experiences in the program, answer
questions that our candidates may have and assist with guided tours of the
hospital.  The program coordinator will also be available as a resource
throughout the day.  

A program overview will be provided electronically prior to the interview, by
either the Program Director or a senior resident or both.  Additional
information will be included in the emailed interview offer and confirmation
package.

* * *

# Selection Criteria

**Candidates for the Orthopedic  Surgery Residency Program at NOSM are
selected based on the following factors:**

  * Demonstrated interest in and knowledge of Orthopedic Surgery and the NOSM Orthopedic Surgery Program
  * Strength of academic record (performance, medical knowledge and clinical abilities)
  * Strength of references
  * Strong interpersonal, communication and collaborative skills
  * Evidence of self-directed learning, reflective practice, a high standard of professionalism and resiliency
  * Strong desire to train in northern clinical settings as well as tertiary hospitals

**  These factors are assessed through the following:**

  * A personal interview
  * The review of the personal letter
  * The review of performance assessments from clinical rotations in medical school, particularly during Orthopedics rotations and/or electives
  * The review of letters of reference

## Program goals

Our mission is to educate residents who have a strong surgical and procedural
aptitude to become competent specialists in Orthopedic Surgery, prepared to
practice in any setting, including rural and northern communities.  
  
Our goal is to deliver a comprehensive hands-on curriculum that's designed to
ensure that all of the Orthopedic Surgery CanMEDS training objectives outlined
by the Royal College are met, thus allowing our residents to acquire and hone
all the necessary skills/competencies to develop into highly knowledgeable,
professional, skilled orthopedic surgeons.



## Selection process goals

Our residency program seeks candidates who demonstrate a strong academic
foundation and a  
deep commitment to orthopedic surgery. Ideal candidates will have a robust
academic record  
complemented by substantial hands-on experience in the field, including
surgical rotations,  
electives, scholarly activities, and participation in relevant conferences.

We place high value on exceptional clinical communication skills. Candidates
should exhibit the  
ability to connect with patients, their families, and caregivers with
compassion, empathy,  
sensitivity, and humility. Effective communication is crucial for providing
top-tier patient care  
and fostering positive interactions within the healthcare team.

Collaboration is at the heart of our program, and we look for candidates who
excel in working  
within a multidisciplinary team. The ability to work effectively with
colleagues from various  
professional domains is essential, as is maintaining the highest standards of
professionalism,  
including responsibility, respect, and self-awareness.

Our commitment to equity, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) is a cornerstone of
our selection  
process. We aim to build a diverse and inclusive cohort of residents who align
with these values  
and contribute positively to our program's environment.

Candidates should also be well-suited to the unique aspects of our program,
which includes a  
hands-on, distributed rural residency involving travel away from the primary
residence. We seek  
individuals with strong surgical and procedural skills who can adapt and
thrive in this setting.

Resilience, personal well-being, and work-life balance are vital for success
in our program. We  
value candidates who are committed to ongoing self-directed learning,
reflective practice, and  
continuous professional development, as well as those who prioritize quality
improvement.

Through our selection process, we aim to identify candidates who embody these
qualities and are  
well-positioned to excel in our dynamic and supportive residency environment.



## File review process

Review team composition : The file review team consists of program faculty and
residents. Each application will be reviewed and scored independently by a
combination of 2-4 program faculty members and residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
The program receives an average of around 50 CMG and 50 IMG applications to
the Orthopedic Surgery Streams.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  
The program extends interview invitations to roughly the top 30 CMG candidates
and the top 10 IMG candidates.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Academic & work background/experiences, personal/professional achievements/awards, volunteerism   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Ortho/Surgical elective(s), diverse range relevant to the discipline, rural and/or northern an asset   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  An asset to demonstrate work-life balance and wellness, personal interests. Include in CV   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Any leadership roles held throughout training should be outlined in the CV   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Patient interactions, surgical rotation competencies, academic/personal/professionalism concerns   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Practice goals, interest/knowledge in Ortho. & our program, personal and northern/rural suitability   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Commitment to surgery., performance, knowledge/clinical skills, character/attitude towards learning   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Past achievements/successes and interest in participating in future scholarly activity   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Strength of academic record, any red flags/concerns   
Other file component(s) |  Transcript/CV Addendum:   
  
If any part of your application indicates academic difficulty, failure(s),
repeat of a year or any gaps in your education or work history, a
supplementary statement at the END of your Personal Letter is required. Please
entitle your statement as "Transcript/CV Addendum", explaining the above.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted candidates' opportunities
to arrange and complete electives and would like to reassure you that a lack
of elective activity this year will not negatively impact your application to
our program.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Demonstrated ability to work well in a team setting/multidisciplinary environment   
Collegiality |  Personable, respectful towards others, values the importance of a supportive/collegial atmosphere   
Communication skills |  Able to reflect and communicate responses clearly and concisely, can communicate well with others   
Health advocacy |  We do not formally evaluate this component during the interview   
Interest in the discipline |  Genuine passion for Ortho Surg., knowledgeable, competent, clear understanding of our specialty.   
Interest in the program |  Knowledgeable about our program, training sites, northern Ontario patient populations and challenge   
Leadership skills |  Qualities such as: proactive/takes initiative, accountable, innovative, motivated and goal-oriented   
Professionalism |  Conducts themselves in a professional manner, self-aware, unbiased, morally/ethically responsible   
Scholarly activities |  We do not formally evaluate this component during the interview   
Other interview component(s) |  Problem-Solving Skills: Overcoming challenges, conflict resolution, ability to rationalize.  
  
Knowledge/Skills: Ability to apply clinical knowledge, assess, plan, and take
appropriate action.  
  
Personal Attributes: Demeanor, personality, attitude towards learning.  
  
Time management: Ability to make good use of time/plan accordingly.  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  In keeping with the CanMEDs roles, please note that throughout the
entire application and interview process, your interactions with NOSM
University personnel may be taken into consideration by the program in their
selection process and ranking decisions.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * Early surgical skill training
  * Individualized educational goals focused on anatomy and surgical procedures; 24 hour in-hospital access to full body cadavers
  * Unparalleled preceptor support from knowledgeable surgeons committed to practicing in Northern Ontario
  * Early integration as a key member of a health care team, dedicated to professionalism, high quality patient care and excellent medical education
  * Exposure to the culture and social fabric of Francophone and Indigenous communities
  * Opportunity to participate in research under expert guidance
  * Opportunity for learning experiences in a range of Northern urban and rural clinical settings
  * Funding available for research, professional development and conferences
  * Provision of financial support for resident travel to and from core clinical placements away from the home base and all mandatory educational activities at non home base locations
  * Dedicated career planning, multiple senior year electives/selectives to facilitate fellowship and career planning



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**  
Curriculum**

  
The Competence by Design (CBD) curriculum includes core rotations in
Orthopedic Surgery and subspecialty rotations selected to incorporate a
diversity of experience and proficiency in subspecialty areas that are
integral to community based practice, but less commonly emphasized in
traditional Orthopedic Surgery residency programs.

Based on the resident`s personal learning plan, the content, sequence of
training and the schedule of movement between teaching sites may vary. The
majority of rotations will be completed in Thunder Bay, depending on preceptor
and clinical resources. Residents are required to provide their own vehicle.

**Sample Rotation Plan (rotations in Thunder Bay or northern hospitals unless
noted otherwise; blocks are 4 weeks in length)**

**  
**PGY-1****  
  
Plastics and Vascular - 1 block  
Internal Medicine - 1 block CTU  
Emergency Medicine / Research \- 2 blocks  
Intensive Care Unit (ICU) - 2 blocks  
Orthopedic Surgery - 7 blocks (one of these blocks is Orientation/Bootcamp, 2
are in Jnr Trauma, 4 are lower limb)

**  
**PGY-2  ****

Trauma - Junior - Toronto -2 blocks  
Orthopedic Surgery - 8 blocks (including upper extremity, sports, foot &
ankle, Jnr Spine)  
Orthopedic Surgery - 2 blocks Pediatrics, Junior (Toronto)

**  
**PGY-3****

Orthopedic Surgery - Senior Arthroplasty - 3 blocks  
Orthopedic Surgery - Senior Trauma  - 3 blocks  
Orthopedic Surgery - Sports - 3 blocks

Orthopedic Surgery - Electives - 3 blocks

Research - 1 block

**  
**PGY-4****

Orthopedic Surgery -  Senior Pediatrics- 3 blocks  
Orthopedic Surgery -  Oncology (Toronto) - 3 blocks  
Orthopedic Surgery -  Senior Upper Extremity - 2 blocks  
Orthopedic Surgery  \- Senior Foot and Ankle - 2 blocks

Orthopedic Surgery - Selectives - 2 blocks

**PGY-5**

Orthopedic Surgery - Senior Spine- 3 blocks  
Orthopedic Surgery - Transition to Practice - 10 blocks

**  
Academic Half Days**  
Academic half day sessions occur twice monthly, via Webex online classroom,
from the University of Toronto, during protected time from clinical duties.
Residents will also have the opportunity to participate in educational rounds,
presentations, journal clubs and rounds on site and through the Ontario
Telemedicine Network.  
  
**Surgical Foundations**  
Residents in the first two years of training will attend the Surgical
Foundations Program. In the fall of PGY2, residents will write the final exam
set by the Royal College.  Teaching sessions will normally occur weekly on
Tuesday afternoons from 1400 - 1700h.

**External Core Courses  
**Residents will be supported to attend, at minimum, one mandatory orthopedic
course per academic year, to supplement regular academic content.

**Research**

  * Residents in their PGY1 will complete an eight week combined research/emergency medicine rotation. 
  * Residents will be provided a dedicated four week research block in their PGY 3 year.
  * Residents are expected to complete, at minimum, one research project and present their research at all stages, at the annual Resident Research Event normally in May.  Expert guidance and funding is available to provide high quality research experiences. 



  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

Residents will be based out of Thunder Bay, with rotations possible at other
Northern Ontario learning centres, with approval from the Program Director.

The following rotations are provided at the University of Toronto: Trauma,
junior and senior ; Pediatrics, junior and senior ; Oncology, senior

* * *

# Additional Information

To learn more about northern Ontario, please visit the "[Wider Campus of the
Northern Ontario School of Medicine](https://www.nosm.ca/our-community/wider-
campus-of-the-northern-ontario-school-of-medicine/)" webpage.





Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27055?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27055