#  University of Alberta - Family Medicine - Red Deer  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 9

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Michelle Morros  

Address University of Alberta  
5-16 University Terrace  
Edmonton, AB T6G 2C8, Alberta  

780-492-9961

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Family Medicine Residency Program
](https://www.ualberta.ca/en/family-medicine/postgraduate/prospective-
residents/index.html)  
[ Red Deer Residency Program ](https://www.ualberta.ca/en/family-
medicine/postgraduate/prospective-residents/rural-stream/red-deer.html)  
[ Instagram ](http://instagram.com/uofa_rural_reddeer)  
[ Facebook ](http://facebook.com/UofAFM)  
[ Red Deer Tourism
](https://visitreddeer.com/?gad_source=1&gclid=CjwKCAjw_ZC2BhAQEiwAXSgClmOnT6OqzdlUy0DKUfQorpLZRNwVoSPEknXyDwuzm6IQ0vZdgbZq8RoCV4IQAvD_BwE)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Alanna Bowie

Title: Site Co-Director

  

Name: Dr. Cayla Gilbert

Title: Site Co-Director

  

Name: Jessica Horvath

Title: Academic Site Administrator

Email: rfmrd@ualberta.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

The most up-to-date information about our programs can be found on our
centralized website at: [https://www.ualberta.ca/family-
medicine/postgraduate/prospective-
residents/index.html](https://www.ualberta.ca/family-
medicine/postgraduate/prospective-residents/index.html)

Multiple opportunities to meet with our programs residents, faculty and
administrators will be available throughout the CaRMS season. Please see
[CANPREPP - Red Deer](https://canprepp.ca/programs/university-of-alberta-
family-medicine-red-deer/) for dates and registration.

Interviews for the Rural & Remote (Camrose, Grande Prairie, Red Deer,
Yellowknife) streams are combined, and separate from the Urban (Edmonton)
stream.

**** ****

**To complete an application to the University of Alberta's Rural Program
stream:**

1) You will need 3 referees to **submit** the [Family Medicine Structured
Reference Form](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/sample-FM-structured-reference-
letter-CMG.pdf).

2) You must **complete** the Personal Letter as detailed in the “Additional
Documents” section. Please note that the guidelines for the letter differ
slightly between our urban and rural streams.

3) You have the **option of completing** the CaRMS Self-Identification
Questionnaire (CSIQ). The CSIQ is not currently being used as part of the
application or selection process. More information can be found in the
“Additional Information” section.

4) You must **complete** the FMProC (Family Medicine Professional Choices)
test as noted in the “Examination” section.

**FMProC**

All Family Medicine Residency Programs across Canada use the FMProC (Family
Medicine Professional Choices) in their selection process, which is a Family
Medicine-context specific Situational Judgment Test.

**All applicants to the University of Alberta Family Medicine Residency
Program will be required to write the FMProC for their application to be
deemed complete**. More details and information about registration for FMProC
can be found here:[https://fmproc.com/](https://fmproc.com/).

**Applicants should register early and take the test early during the testing
periods posted.**

**CaRMS Round 1:**

**Registration** : Opens 11th September 2024 Wednesday 12 noon ET, closes 7th
November 2024 Thursday 10AM  ET.

**Test Window:** Opens 28th October Monday 8AM ET, closes 11th November Monday
10AM ET.

**CaRMS Round 2:**

**Registration:** Opens 25th February 2025 Tuesday 12 noon ET, closes 10th
March 2025 Monday 12 noon ET.

****Test Window:** Opens 27th February 2025 Thursday 10AM ET, closes; 12th
March 2025 Wednesday 10AM ET.**

* * *

# Return of Service

There are no return of service requirements at the University of Alberta.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Candidates who match to our program are required to submit proof of ACLS
certification prior to their start date. Without ACLS certification,
candidates who match to our program will not be able to begin training on July
1** _._**



* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Please see the Alberta [provincial
criteria.](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/)

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) are required to provide proof of
English language proficiency as determined by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) who completed their medical education in
Quebec or at the University of Ottawa (French Stream) are required to provide
proof of English language proficiency as determined by the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

CMGs who completed their medical education at the University of Ottawa must
indicate on their application which stream they completed (either French or
English).

_For more information on the CPSA English language requirements, please visit
the  [CPSA website](https://cpsa.ca/physicians/registration/english-language-
proficiency/)._

Examinations

Required

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).



Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Please note that traditional narrative reference letters will NOT be accepted.
Please ask referees to submit a [Family Medicine Structures Reference
Form](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/sample-FM-structured-reference-letter-
CMG.pdf), available on the CaRMS website
[HERE](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/). **If you are
applying for more than one of the University of Alberta Rural and Remote
streams, the same reference forms can be used.**

**Forms completed by physicians with whom the candidate has worked in a
CLINICAL setting are preferred.  **

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Instead of a traditional personal letter, please answer the following **two**
questions as your personal letter. When completing your personal letter in the
CaRMS.ca "Personal Letter" section, please copy and paste the question stems
above your answer.



1) Please highlight three things about yourself that you would like to ensure
we do not miss in our review. Items may include special skills or
accomplishments, or anything else you feel will strengthen your application to
UofA Family Medicine. Your answers will be used to evaluate your interest and
suitability for Rural Family Medicine as well as any connection to our
community. Maximum 75 words per item (Max 225 words total). Please do not
exceed the maximum word count.



2) Please describe any special interest or connection you may have to a rural,
regional or remote community either in Alberta or not. Please use no more than
100 words. We understand that not everybody who is interested in rural
medicine actually comes from a small town and as such, candidates without a
specific connection to a rural, regional or remote community will still be
given consideration.

Optional - will be reviewed

Program questionnaire

**Sometimes applicants are worried about certain items or aspects of their
application. Using the[ Program Questionnaire
Template](https://drive.google.com/file/d/15dgZiafS0fXyOpNwdHd6sFPMAFh79HW6/view?usp=drive_link),
you may optionally upload this “Program Questionnaire” document to explain any
concerns you may have, for example, academic performance, professionalism
concerns, leaves or gaps in training, Family Medicine experience, or other. If
you have no concerns, please do not upload this document.**

Self-identification questionnaire

**Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism in residency
selection. We invite applicants to optionally complete and include the CSIQ to
assist our understanding of the diversity of applicant pools, but the CSIQ is
not currently utilized as part of our application or selection process. We are
using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable opportunities
for all applicants.**

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

For details of our file review process see Selection Criteria.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 19, 2025
  * January 20, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Applicants will be able to schedule their
own interview date and time. Interview status will be updated on December 17,
2024.  Scheduling will begin on **December 18, 2024 at 6:00 p.m. (MT)**  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Our goal with interviews is to make
applicants feel welcome and comfortable in order to allow them to demonstrate
their strengths. We will strive to maintain this personal touch despite the
nature of virtual interviews.  The Department endeavors to offer interviews to
all eligible candidates but uses the file ranking to determine a cut-off level
if demand for interviews exceeds resources.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

1) CaRMS Files

Factors that will be taken into consideration from the application file in
establishing the candidate's suitability in family medicine residency include:

  * Academic performance
  * Clinical performance
  * Family Medicine experience 
  * References
  * Rural interest/experience

2) Interviews

  * Communication skills
  * People skills
  * Desire to become a rural family physician
  * Maturity
  * Team player
  * Work ethic
  * Readiness for challenge
  * Self-directed learning
  * Suitability for small collegial program

## Program goals

Our goal is to produce competent, caring, full service family physicians with
a passion for serving and living in a rural or remote community.

The University of Alberta Family Medicine Program believes that the best
learning comes from exposure to as many clinical experiences as possible
including diverse settings and challenging levels of responsibility. We
encourage all medical students interested in rural/remote family medicine to
apply to our program as we believe training with us will prepare you for
practice anywhere in the country.

## Selection process goals

The University of Alberta rural family medicine ideal candidate:

  * Demonstrates a genuine passion for rural family medicine
  * Demonstrates a solid knowledge base and excellent critical thinking skills.
  * Demonstrates superior communication skills.
  * Demonstrates a deep sense of responsibility to the community, including diverse populations and rural and remote settings. 
  * Demonstrates adherence to the highest professional standards.



## File review process

Review team composition : Each file is reviewed independently by one faculty
member and one resident using a computer-based, evidence-informed scoring
rubric. Discrepancies or concerns are reviewed by a third party and taken to
the selection committee as appropriate.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 401 - 600  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  
The department endeavours to offer interviews to all eligible candidates, but
uses the file ranking to determine cut-off level if demand for interviews
exceeds resources.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Required; content evaluated as a supplement to the application   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Our program does not require electives at our site or numerous electives in our specialty. We consider and value applicants with broad clinical experiences.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  FMProC: Is not used to determine interview status, but may be considered for overall ranking.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Work and volunteer experience(rural favoured); special skills and interests; community engagement   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Community service and engagement; family medicine oriented organizations and associations   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evaluated for academic performance and professionalism   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Required as detailed   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Required: Three structured reference forms. Traditional narrative letters of reference will not be reviewed.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Not required. Interest in (rural) primary care favoured.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evaluated for academic proficiency   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Electives will not be considered as part of the
interview offer criteria

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

**Our program does not favour residents who do electives at our site or
numerous electives in our specialty. We consider and value applicants with
broad clinical experiences.**



## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  not specifically evaluated at interview   
Collegiality |  behaviour, attitude and ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  strong verbal and non-verbal skills   
Health advocacy |  not specifically evaluated at interview   
Interest in the discipline |  understanding of and suitability for rural family medicine   
Interest in the program |  connection to and/or interest in rural community   
Leadership skills |  involvement in teaching, mentoring, organizations etc.   
Professionalism |  interactions with faculty, staff and residents   
Scholarly activities |  not specifically evaluated at interview   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  The University of Alberta Family Medicine Program believes that all
medical students should endeavour to work to their best abilities and behave
in a professional manner throughout their training. Solicited or unsolicited
feedback received regarding a candidate, in particular relating to the medical
expert, communicator or professional roles MAY be considered if it is felt to
be relevant and/or egregious and can be reasonably verified.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Red Deer**

We are a rural family medicine training stream within the Department of Family
Medicine at the University of Alberta.  We strongly believe that future rural
physicians should train in the setting in which they will practice. Residents
in this preceptor-based program choose rotations in regional and rural sites
across northern and central Alberta.

Our small, decentralized program allows a focus on the individual's training
requirements. Advances in IT provide close links with fellow residents. The
full academic resources of the University of Alberta Family Medicine program
are available to all residents.

**Resident Wellbeing and Support**

Although extremely rewarding, we recognize that residency training is a very
demanding and potentially stressful experience. In addition, we recognize that
residents have lives outside of medicine which can also be the source of
unexpected stressors.

The Red Deer site prides itself on the emphasis we place on resident wellbeing
and the support we provide to our residents. As a small program, residents
develop close, supportive relationships with their fellow residents, as well
as with preceptors and administrative staff.

When residents are faced with challenging situations, and find themselves in
need of support, they have a great variety of resources to call upon. Often,
they feel comfortable approaching a fellow resident, the Site Administrator
(Jessica), or one of the Site Directors. If further assistance is required,
the University of Alberta has a dedicated Assistant Program Director in charge
of Resident Support. Residents who have required a special leave-of-absence
have found the program to be extremely accommodating.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Rotations**

First Year | Second Year  
---|---  
3 wks Addictions | 6 wks Electives  
2 wks Anesthesia  | 4 wks Emergency Medicine  
1 wk Dermatology | 8 wks Internal Medicine  
4 wks Elective | 6 wks Obstetrics  
4 wks Emergency Medicine | 2 wks Gynecology  
2 wks Geriatrics | 2 wks Palliative Care  
8 wks General Surgery | 8 wks Rural Family Medicine  
4 wks Psychiatry | 16 wks Rural Family Medicine  
4 wks Orthopedics |    
4 wks Pediatrics |    
16 wks Rural Family Medicine |    
  


**First Year**

The first year of our program includes a mix of hospital based specialty
rotations and an extended rural Family Medicine block.  Specialty rotations
are often shared with other FM residents and sometimes with fellowship
residents from Edmonton or Calgary.  Preceptor based learning ensures
excellent access to clinical cases and individual teaching which is usually
one-on-one.  Because clinical services are not dependent on the presence of
house staff, on-call is often from home and learning experiences are focused
on education more than service.

The 16 week rural Family Medicine rotation may be scheduled at any time within
the first year.This prolonged exposure ensures a true experience of
comprehensive care and continuity of care with a limited panel of patients for
whom the resident can start to feel truly responsible.

There is an additional 4 weeks of elective time that residents can use to
tailor their learning to their individual needs & interests.

Residents are assigned a Faculty Advisor at the beginning of their first year.
This will be one of the Site Co-Directors who will follow their progress and
provide academic advice throughout the 2 years of training.  In addition,
residents are paired with a family doctor in the area who has volunteered to
act as a mentor to that resident throughout their training.

**Second Year**

There are further specialty rotations in second year but the main thrust of
PGY2 is to develop the resident as a rural family physician, building on the
knowledge skills and attitudes acquired in the first year. The key rotations
are two additional rural Family Medicine blocks of 8 weeks and 16 weeks
duration. These rotations provide further opportunities to experience
comprehensive medicine and continuity of care in a rural setting.

**Academics**

The rural sites follow a structured, two-year academic curriculum, covering
the full range of topics necessary for the practice of rural family medicine.
Strong emphasis is placed on helping residents prepare to write their
licensing examination, with regular practice sessions.

  * Workshops and courses including; Evidence Based Medicine, Behavioural Medicine, CASTED, CPoCUS IP certification, Residents as Teacher, and Practice Management 
  * Monthly Academic days (in person)
  * Weekly hospital teaching rounds in relation to the 105 topics from CFPC
  * Lots of interactive, hands on, simulation and case based learning

Academics sessions are also a great way for all rural residents to stay
connected during residency.

**Life Support Courses**

Residents must be ACLS certified before starting their residency.  ALARM,
ATLS, NRP and PALS courses are all reimbursed to the resident when
successfully completed during residency.

**Research  **

In the first year, each resident does a workshop in Evidence-Based Medicine
(EBM) and then throughout the year, utilizes these skills to complete four
small EBM research projects to answer clinical questions they have
encountered.  A Practice Quality Improvement (PQI) project is assigned in the
second year and is completed during the rural family medicine block.

Residents are expected to present their research projects to their colleagues.
Residents also have the option to present their research at the annual Family
Medicine Research day. Funding may be available to support the presentation of
resident projects at Family Medicine conferences and meetings, and research
assistance is accessible through the Department of Family Medicine and Alberta
Primary Care Research Unit.



* * *

# Training Sites

**Red Deer**

Residents have their home base in the regional city of Red Deer. This
community of 100,000 lies within the Edmonton - Calgary corridor, 150 km from
both cities. The 390-bed Red Deer Regional Hospital has a full complement of
specialists providing care to the roughly 300,000 residents of the region.
Family physicians continue to have a key role within the hospital and act as
the attending physician for half of all admissions. The city has a thriving
recreational base, together with a complete range of cultural and educational
activities. Check out more things to do using this link: [RD
Tourism](https://visitreddeer.com/)

Residents are responsible for their own housing in Red Deer.

**Rural Sites**

Training in rural sites occupies 16 weeks of the first year and 24 weeks of
the second year. Rural sites are specifically chosen for the quality of
learning opportunities available. These sites are generally medium-sized
communities with active surgical and obstetrical programs in addition to a
high-volume emergency department. Residents will train with experienced full-
service rural family physician preceptors. The length of each rural placement
allows residents the opportunity to follow a panel of their own patients, with
progressively increasing independence and responsibility.

Residents enjoy considerable flexibility in their choice of the rural site and
many of the rural sites can accommodate more than one resident at a time. Find
out more about the rural training sites using this link: [Community Site
Profiles](https://www.ualberta.ca/medicine/programs/rural-
regional/communities.html)

Access to a vehicle is necessary during these rural rotations as public
transport is minimal in rural Alberta.

Accommodations for rotations outside of the regional home base of Red Deer are
arranged and funded by RhPAP. Accommodation at a rural site could be an
apartment, condo or a house. Accommodations suitable for a couple or a family
may be requested. Residents should not assume that their rural accommodations
will accept pets.

The program also provides or reimburses travel expenses for rural rotations
and mandatory academics.

Outside of their training, residents often find that they become quite
integrated into the local community, and are able to take advantage of the
unique social and recreational opportunities available at each site.

* * *

# Additional Information

**Travel Requirements**

It is expected that residents in the Rural programs utilize their own
transport when traveling to and from teaching sites, within Red Deer, and for
rotations outside of Red Deer. A current driver's license and access to a
vehicle are mandatory in the U of A Rural Residency Program due to the
distances between teaching sites.

**Rural residents will also be required to attend several**mandatory**
academic workshops during residency. These workshops are held in numerous
locations in Alberta and the Northwest Territories and can be up to a week in
length. Travel and accommodations costs are provided or reimbursed by the
program for the resident only.**

**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)**

The University of Alberta recognizes the importance of diversity, equity,
inclusivity, decolonization, and indigenization (EDIDI) and is committed to
the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry’s policy on anti-racism.

Further, the University is committed to implementing the Truth and
Reconciliation Commission calls to action that are relevant to education and
medicine.The pursuit of diversity and equitable opportunities is a core value
that guides our selection practices.

The University encourages applications from underrepresented groups, including
Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women,
persons of a minority gender identity or sexual orientation, and individuals
who would contribute to the diversity of the medical community. The CaRMS
Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) is an optional form that candidates
can fill out.

Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism in residency
selection. We invite applicants to optionally complete and include the CSIQ to
assist our understanding of the diversity of applicant pools, but the CSIQ is
not currently utilized as part of our application or selection process. We are
using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable opportunities
for all applicants.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27327?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27327