#  University of Ottawa - Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation - Ottawa  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2 click here

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Deanna Quon  

Address Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation  
The Rehabilitation Centre  
505 Smyth Road, Rm. 1105  
Ottawa , Ontario, K1H 8M2  

Work  (613) 737-7350 x 75591

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
](https://www.uottawa.ca/faculty-medicine/department-medicine/physical-
medicine-rehabilitation)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Louise Brazeau

Title: Program Administrator

Email: loubrazeau@toh.ca

Phone: (613) 737-7350 x 75591

(613) 739-6864 (fax)

  

* * *

# Important Information

**All candidates must meet the Ontario Criteria of Eligibility**  found
[here](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-criteria/provincial-
criteria/ontario/).

**COVID-19 vaccination**

Please be aware that most, if not all, hospitals in Ontario have mandatory
COVID-19 vaccination policies in place that require, in the absence of a valid
medical or human rights exemption, proof of vaccination. Acceptable
vaccination must be in accordance with Health Canada. You will be required to
provide an attestation that you meet this requirement as part of the CaRMS
application process and any actual documentation will be collected by the
appropriate institution if matched. These guidelines could change at any time
in accordance with future direction from the Ministry of Health or the
Universities based on information from Public Health.

**MCCQE (Medical Council of Canada qualifying examination) Part 1 results** :

Trainees will be required to disclose their MCCQE Part 1 examination
results**if taken** , upon entry into any of the University of Ottawa's
training programs. **Please note that the MCCQE Part 1 is  not a requirement
to begin residency.** The purpose of this disclosure is to allow for resources
to be provided to the few residents who would benefit from extra support early
in their residency in an effort to maximize their success.

**Failure to meet or provide proof of any of the stated requirements may
result in an applicant’s file not being reviewed or removed from the Rank
Order List.**

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

All candidates must meet the Ontario criteria of eligibility.

-We have 2 resident positions per year. In recent years this has alternated between 2 CMG positions and 1 CMG + 1 IMG position. **We will have  2 CMG _ _ positions for the upcoming residency match**** ** in** ** 2025.

-Physiatrists affiliated with the residency program include:

  * 14 physiatrists with geographic full-time university appointments (including 4 full professors).
  * 7 physiatrists with voluntary part-time university appointments.
  * 3 community-based physiatrists.

-The in-patient load per resident can vary from 5 - 20 patients for rehabilitation medicine rotations. The case load will depend upon the mix of in-patient and out-patient responsibilities during the rotation. The education to work ratio has been evaluated favorably by residents in the program.

-A rural rotation is not a mandatory component of the program. All residents have the option of completing community-based rehabilitation medicine electives. The electives may be completed in a rural setting if the resident chooses to do so. Arrangements are made on an individual basis, with the program directors approval.

-Residents are permitted to pursue interprovincial and international electives for rotations that cannot be provided by our own program. Arrangements are made on an individual basis, with approval of the program director.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  * Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  * Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  * Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  * Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Applicant support form  Number requested: 3

Traditional letters of reference are no longer accepted for this program. Your
referee must complete the required structured reference letter found here:
[Physical Medicine structured Reference
Letter](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/physical-medicine-and-rehab-structured-
reference-letter.pdf).

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter should outline the applicant's interest in Physical Medicine
and Rehabilitation and their understanding of what the specialty offers. The
applicant should also include what aspects of physiatry they find most
appealing and the attributes they possess which would make them a good
physiatrist in the future. Finally, any specific reasons for applying to the
University of Ottawa program should be indicated.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Optional - will be reviewed

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 24, 2025
  * January 27, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Friday January 24th 2025  
  
Monday January27th 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: We will have 2 CMG spots available
for the coming residency match in 2025.  
  
After reviewing the applications, candidates felt to be acceptable are invited
for an interview.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

-Solid academic standing.

-Candidates benefit from a proven interest in PM&R.

-Excellent communication skills, interpersonal skills and ability to work as part of an inter-disciplinary team.

-Candidates with an interest in basic science, clinical medicine or medical education research are encouraged to apply.

## Program goals

We pride ourselves in being a comprehensive program with expertise in all
areas of Physiatry.

The University of Ottawa Physiatry Mission Statement is:  

We strive to provide comprehensive training of the highest quality, tailored
to meet the educational needs of individual residents.

We prepare our graduates to be competent and respected physiatrists in the
practice they choose - be it general, sub-specialty, academic or community-
based.  

## Selection process goals

There is no one formula for an ideal applicant. We value applicants with a
breadth of experiences and personality traits.

We value applicants that have:

1) Demonstrated the ability to learn and work in a team as determined through
clinical evaluations and letters of reference.

2) Demonstrated excellence in areas other than clinical medicine. This may
include: Work experience, volunteer experience, extra-curricular activities,
or research experience.

## File review process

Review team composition : Initial review of applications is performed by the
program director, a second physiatrist member of the selection committee, and
the chief resident. The applications are independently reviewed and scored and
ranked to determine which candidates to interview. Those candidates offered an
interview are evaluated by: the program director, chief resident, division
chief, and one other member of the Residency Program committee.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Excellence in areas other than clinical medicine.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Positive letters of reference. Including at least one letter from a Physiatry elective.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Excellence in areas other than clinical medicine.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Excellence in areas other than clinical medicine.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Successful completion of training program without highlighted concerns.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Reason for interest in PM&R;, and knowledge of what PM&R; is as a specialty.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Demonstrated ability to learn and work well in a team.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Excellence in areas other than clinical medicine.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Successful completion of training program without highlighted concerns.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We are attempting to learn about your experience and how you respond in various situations.   
Collegiality |  We are attempting to learn about your experience and how you respond in various situations.   
Communication skills |  We are attempting to learn about your experience and how you respond in various situations.   
Health advocacy |  We are attempting to learn about your experience.   
Interest in the discipline |  Why do you want to be a Physiatrist.   
Interest in the program |  Knowledge of our program.   
Leadership skills |  We are attempting to learn about your experience and how you respond in various situations.   
Professionalism |  We are attempting to learn about your experience and how you respond in various situations.   
Scholarly activities |  Prior experience and what you learned from it.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * Well structured academic curriculum for half days with a strong emphasis on CanMEDS roles, which enables us to train well rounded physiatrists.  
  * Multiple training sites with exposure to all core physiatry sub-specialties, including pediatric physiatry, and respiratory and cardiac rehab.  
  * Track record of training a wide range of both community and academic physiatrists who have gone into many different subspecialties.  
  * Annual anatomy half days in the University of Ottawa anatomy lab, simulation sessions at the Sim Centre and ultrasound training sessions.  
  * Strong culture of feedback and ability to adapt and be flexible, as demonstrated recently in the setting of a pandemic.  
  * Biannual Written and OSCE examinations. 
  * Our program is well supported by PM&R and off-service staff who are genuinely interested in meeting your learning needs/objectives and are engaged in resident education. 
  * Tight-knit resident group from a variety of different backgrounds/experiences who organize multiple social events together every year. 

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

 The launch of our Competence By Design (CBD) program occurred in July 2020.
CBD is the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada’s major change
initiative to reform the training of medical specialists in Canada. The PM&R
program has been divided into four distinct stages of training. Within each
stage of training, residents are provided with a list of learning objectives
called Entrustable Professional Activities (EPAs) and milestones, based on the
CanMEDS 2015 framework.

1) Transition to discipline: The first three blocks of residency will be in
Physiatry rotations.

2) Foundations: Approximately 14 months will be spent on off service rotations
including CTU medicine, neurology, rheumatology, orthopedics, and medicine and
surgery subspecialties, as well as electives.

3) Core: Core PM&R rotations (inpatient MSK, Spinal Cord Injury, Stroke, ABI,
Prosthetics and Orthotics, Pediatric Physiatry, outpatient MSK, EMG,
Neuromuscular, Cardiac rehab, Respiratory rehab), research rotations and
electives make up this portion of training.

4) Transition to Practice:12 months, involves planning and completing
personalized training experiences aligned with career plans and/or specific
learning needs

RESEARCH

  * Three blocks of the Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation rotations are dedicated to research.  Residents also have the option of using elective time to pursue additional research activities.
  * All residents are required to complete one research project during their residency program.  The project must include development of a research proposal, submission for ethics review, data collection and data analysis.  A written summary of the research, in a format suitable for submission to a journal, must be approved by the resident's research supervisor and the program director by the end of the residency program.

ACADEMIC HALF DAY

  * Well structured academic curriculum for half days, on a two year cycle, with a strong emphasis on CanMEDS roles.







* * *

# Training Sites

The core of the program is offered at The Ottawa Hospital - Rehabilitation
Centre and the Sisters of Charity Health Services (Elisabeth Bruyere site)
which provide tertiary level rehabilitation services for in-patients and out-
patients. Pediatric Rehabilitation is provided at the Children's Hospital of
Eastern Ontario. Cardiac rehabilitation is offered at the Ottawa Heart
Institute. The Ottawa Hospital Civic and General Campuses, provide acute care
rotations.

Ottawa is the 4th largest city in Canada and often voted by MacLean's and
MoneySense magazine as a top community to live in overall. It is home to a
range of museums, art galleries, even an NHL hockey team. Perfect city to
raise a family in.

Close proximity to amazing national/provincial parks, and great access to
hiking, cycling, nordic and alpine skiing, and skating.

Ottawa is a bilingual city, with multiple job opportunities for partners as it
is a large economic centre with diverse jobs in high-tech, government and
other important sectors such as health and education.

* * *

# Additional Information

The residents have dedicated space with workstations, a small library and
computer access. All residents are provided with an e-mail address and have
internet access.

* * *

# FAQ

**1)  How is ultrasound education incorporated into the program?  **

                There are academic half day workshops every year in ultrasound, and opportunity and support to learn US on our own, with machines available during our summer half days. Multiple staff use ultrasound in clinic for MSK procedures and botulinum toxin injections. You can also seek out opportunities for electives.

  

**2) What is Ottawa looking for in its applicants?    **

                There is no one type of applicant that we are looking for. We are interested in having residents that are genuinely interested in physiatry who have a positive attitude, and are hardworking, accepting of feedback and keen to learn.  They should also be easy to get along with and work well with others.  
** **

**3)  Do I need to be bilingual to study in Ottawa?  **

                No! French-speaking is an asset, but in no way a requirement to live and perform training in Ottawa.   
  

**4)Will I be socially isolated if I come from out of town?   **

                There is no denying that a move across the country can be difficult for anyone. But rest assured, our residents are very close to one another, and we are looking forward to adding two new members to the family! We make sure to touch base frequently, even if is physically distanced, as during the Covid-19 pandemic. Plus, the proximity to other major urban centres and to an international airport facilitates transport anywhere in the world!  

  

**5) Are there practice opportunities at the end of Residency?   **

                Yes! There will be a new Civic Hospital campus built within the next few years with a planned move into a new state of the art rehabilitation facility. There will be both University based academic Physiatry opportunities as well as community hospital and even private office opportunities within the Ottawa region. Ottawa is a large city with various "pockets", ensuring there are multiple practice opportunities available. Ottawa is also close in proximity to multiple smaller communities with hospitals, many of which are in need of physiatrists!  





Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26329?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26329