#  McMaster University - Radiation Oncology - Hamilton

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Justin Lee  

Address Radiation Oncology  
Juravinski Cancer Centre  
699 Concession Street  
Hamilton ON L8V 5C2 , Ontario  

Work  (905) 387-9711 ext 64628

Fax  (905) 575-6350

Websites of Interest [ Radiation Oncology Residency Program
](https://oncology.healthsci.mcmaster.ca/education/residency-programs/#tab-
content-radiation-oncology-residency-program)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Justin Lee

Title: Program Director

Email: leejus@hhsc.ca

Phone: 905-387-9711 ext 64628

  

Name: Nicole Molinaro

Title: Program Administrator

Email: molinana@mcmaster.ca

Phone: 905-387-9711 ext 64628

  

Name: Dr. Francesco Fazzari

Title: Chief Resident

Email: fazzarif@HHSC.CA

  

Name: Dr. Adam Gabara

Title: Chief Resident

Email: gabara@HHSC.CA

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/). It is important to review the
requirements carefully.

Information regarding Competency Based Medical Education (CBME) can be viewed
at: [McMaster CBME](https://cbmepg.mcmaster.ca/ "McMaster CBME")

To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit:
<https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/>

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Reference letters from the institution/discipline will not be required for
consideration of interview. We will not accept more than three letters.







Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A short personal letter is required, to include a description of why you would
like to train in Radiation Oncology, and at McMaster. Please include what you
would hope to gain from the program, and what you would bring to it.

Especially for those with limited elective experience in Radiation Oncology,
please explain how you have acquired a sufficient understanding of Radiation
Oncology to feel confident in considering this specialty as a career choice."





Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

Order from your Registrar

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All applications will be reviewed. Those selected for an interview will be
contacted via email.  Those unsuccessful in obtaining an interview will be
notified by email as well.  

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 22, 2025

Details regarding interview dates:

Virtual Interview dates are coordinated with other Radiation Oncology programs
across Canada to facilitate applicants with multiple Radiation Oncology
interviews. McMaster's interview date will be Wednesday January 22nd, 2025.

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process:

Each applicant's CaRMS file is reviewed by members of the Residency Program
Committee to determine the likelihood of a good fit between the applicant and
the McMaster program. Those applicants to be considered further are invited to
a virtual interview via zoom. Each applicant will spend 30 minutes with two
Radiation Oncologists +/- a senior resident from within the Juravinski Cancer
Centre. In addition, remaining current Radiation Oncology Residents will be
available for informal discussion, and may host a virtual social event around
the interview date.

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Applicants are assessed for evidence of:

            A clear understanding of the specialty of Radiation Oncology

            Academic potential, through prior academic achievement, and experience in research and/or teaching

            Success in working in a collaborative team environment

            Developing knowledge and skill in clinical patient care.

             Excellent communications skills

            Professional attitude

            Capability for insight and self-assessment





## Program goals

The training program in Radiation Oncology at McMaster University supports
each resident in reaching their full potential as an excellent clinical
Radiation Oncologist, and, if desired, a successful academic Radiation
Oncologist. Our trainees thrive in the collegial atmosphere of our program,
and contribute to the high quality of care and supportive environment of the
Juravinski Cancer Centre. Our graduates are skilled in all aspects of clinical
Radiation Oncology practice and prepared to move on to independent practice to
provide care and leadership in a collaborative, multidisciplinary setting, or
to fellowship to advance their skills or pursue academic interests.

## Selection process goals

For the training program at McMaster University, the aim of the CaRMS
selection process is to identify intellectually capable, conscientious, and
academically motivated individuals who have discovered that the specialty of
Radiation Oncology fits their interests, aptitude, and career goals.
Applicants to the program will be assessed on the following criteria:

  * A clear understanding and interest in the specialty of Radiation Oncology
  * Cognitive capability
  * Academic potential as evidenced by involvement in research and/or education
  * Success in working in a team/collaborative environment
  * Excellence in communication skills
  * Professional attitude and behavior
  * Capability for insight and self-assessment.

## File review process

Review team composition : All applications are reviewed by the Program
Director and at least one other faculty member. Interviews are offered based
on the above criteria.The number of applicants interviewed is based on the
number of applications received, assessment of the applications,and resources
available for interviews.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Evidence of academic achievement, teamwork ability, educational role, scholarly work.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Given the limited elective opportunities for undergraduate students this year, this is not a requirement and will not be counted against the applicant   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of collaborative skills, leadership, time-management   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of professionalism, willingness to take responsibility, management skills, collaboration.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evidence of professionalism, academic aptitude.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Written communication skills, personal insight, knowledge of Radiation Oncology.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Evidence of collaborative skills, clinical & cognitive capability, professionalism, conscientiousness.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest/aptitude for academic work helpful, not an absolute requirement   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Consistently solid achievement.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Due to limited elective opportunities this year, there
are no specific elective requirements. We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic
may have impacted candidates' opportunities to arrange and complete electives
and would like to reassure you that a lack of elective activity this year will
not negatively impact your application to our program.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence of success in team environments, clinical or otherwise   
Collegiality |  Ability to collaborate under various circumstances, clinical or otherwise   
Communication skills |  Clear, organized oral communication during interview, effective communication in other settings   
Health advocacy |  Advocate for patients   
Interest in the discipline |  Clear understanding of components of Radiation Oncology practice   
Interest in the program |  Interest in learning of the unique characteristics of the program   
Leadership skills |  Prior experience and insight into reasons for success/failure in leadership positions   
Professionalism |  Appropriate behaviour/language at interview   
Scholarly activities |  Participation/completion of research, teaching, quality, patient safety, in Radiation Oncology or other areas of study.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  Not a proper fit for the program.  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Curriculum

The Division of Radiation Oncology at the Juravinski Cancer Centre serves
Ontario’s LHIN4, which includes the Greater Hamilton Region, Brantford,
Burlington, Norfolk Region, and the Niagara Peninsula. Approximately 5,000 new
cancer patients are seen annually by the Radiation Oncology service. The
program is designed to ensure that the trainee acquires a broad understanding
of human malignant disease, gains competence in general medical management of
patients, and special competence in radiation oncology, including knowledge
and application of the basic sciences underpinning cancer and its management.
In addition, the program allows trainees to develop the skills and experience
in scholarship, as a foundation for an academic career.

 TRANSITION TO DISCIPLINE (TTD):

TTD is 8 weeks of training based in the Division of Radiation Oncology at the
Juravinski Cancer Centre. The goal is to gain clinical Radiation Oncology
experience and to become familiar with

  * The training program and environment
  * The fundamental aspects of radiation oncology practice
  * The role of Radiation Oncologists in multidisciplinary cancer care
  * The basic principles of radiation therapy.
  * The trainee works with several clinical supervisors managing various types of cancer, in the outpatient setting, sees inpatient consultations, does radiation oncology “on call” under the close supervision and guidance of senior trainees, and attends multiple teaching sessions on basic clinical medicine and other fundamental aspects of the responsibilities of a resident.



FOUNDATIONS:

Residents spend the remainder of the PGY1 year (eleven 4-week blocks) in the
Foundations phase of training, working in various clinical settings related
directly to Radiation Oncology, including

  * Internal Medicine (CTU)                      2 blocks
  * Thoracic Oncology Surgery                  1 block
  * Gynecologic Oncology                         1 block
  * Inpatient Oncology                             2 blocks
  * Emergency Medicine                           1 block
  * Diagnostic Imaging                             1 block
  * Palliative Care (Inpatient/outpatient)    2 blocks
  * Neuro-Oncology                                  1 block



CORE:

The Core phase of training runs from July of PGY2 to the fall of PGY5, and
includes clinical rotations in all aspects of Radiation Oncology practice,
including Paediatrics and Sarcoma, as Hamilton is home to services in both of
these highly specialized areas.

Clinical Care: Clinical rotations are person-based, with residents working
directly with individual Radiation Oncologists in their areas of expertise.
The level of responsibility for clinical care and radiation treatment planning
increases as residents progress through the program. There are blocks
dedicated to radiation treatment planning, and Medical Oncology, and there is
a one-block prostate brachytherapy experience based at the Odette Cancer
Centre in Toronto. Residents do one block of radiation oncology at a community
cancer centre, within driving distance of Hamilton, or elsewhere in Ontario or
Canada. There is ample time for electives outside Hamilton; previous trainees
have completed electives nearby, farther afield across Canada, in the US, and
beyond. Residents take first call from home (approximately 1 in 5), with staff
back-up, within the PARO agreement. Each resident takes on the role of Chief
Resident in the PGY3 year.

Research: Residents are required to complete a scholarly project during
training. The program has a research advisor, who is a successful academic
Radiation Oncologist, to aid in identifying a research interest and supervisor
from among a faculty with diverse academic experience. Research skills are
taught in a dedicated longitudinal course in the PGY2 year, where residents
work a clinical problem into a research question and develop a feasible
project proposal. In PGY3 there is a hybrid clinical/research block for
working on a scholarly project, with the potential to dedicate further
elective time to research in the senior years. Residents are financially
supported to attend the CARO and ASTRO meetings once during training, and any
time they present their scholarly work at these or other North American
meetings. The McMaster Department of Oncology has an annual Research Day at
which Radiation Oncology residents present their work along with colleagues in
Medical Physics, Medical and Surgical Oncology, and Basic Sciences.

Academic Program: There are weekly Academic Half-Days, during which resident
are protected from clinical responsibilities. Topic include general oncology
topics (combined with Medical Oncology trainees), specific Radiation Oncology
topics that include both clinic, technologic and basic science aspects of
Radiation Oncology, and cover the range of CanMeds roles. Residents
participate in regular Journal Club meetings, Morbidity and Mortality Rounds,
and Clinical-Pathologic Conferences throughout the academic year. At the
Juravinski, there are multiple cancer-site-specific multidisciplinary rounds
and radiation treatment planning rounds, which residents are expected to
attend as they relate to their clinical rotations. Residents are expected to
attend the weekly JCC Regional Oncology rounds that cover diverse clinical,
scientific, and psychosocial oncology topics. Residents are encouraged to
participate in undergraduate/postgraduate teaching opportunities. Residents
are financially supported to attend a contouring course, and the national exam
prep course.

Basic Sciences: In PGY2 and PYG3, residents participate in a dedicated physics
course in collaboration with the medical radiation physics program that takes
place over a 2-week protected period. A one-week physics review course occurs
annually for senior residents. Residents attend the U of T Radiobiology course
in PGY2 and again in PGY3.

Evaluation: Residents complete formal exams in radiation physics and
radiobiology. Throughout training, residents are assessed per the Royal
College Competence-by-Design framework on the specific requirements of
training in Radiation Oncology, through work-based feedback and assessment,
end-of-rotation evaluations, personal reflections, and teaching evaluations.
Starting in PGY2, there are in-house OSCEs twice annually, and an annual in-
house written exam. Residents may take the ACR in-training exam. The Royal
College Fellowship Exam takes place in two parts: the written exam is in the
spring of PGY4, and the oral exam in the fall of PGY5.



TRANSITION TO PRACTICE:

The TTP phase of training occurs in the last few months of training. The goal
is to focus on the skills required to enter practice successfully, through
longitudinal clinics, more independence in practice, participation in
administrative roles, and completion of scholarly work.



  
  









  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

McMaster University postgraduate medical training programs in Hamilton are
delivered in cooperation with the affiliated teaching hospitals in Hamilton.
Basic clinical training takes place at Hamilton Health Science (HHS) and St.
Joseph’s Healthcare in Hamilton, and specific training in Radiation Oncology
is provided at the Juravinski Cancer Centre (JCC) in Hamilton.  The JCC serves
a population of 1.4 million in the Hamilton-Niagara-Haldimand-Brant region of
Southern Ontario.  The JCC Division of Radiation Oncology is staffed by 25
Radiation Oncologists with cross-appointments to McMaster University and a
diversity of interest and experience that includes epidemiology, translational
research, molecular biology, health services research, supportive care,
complementary and alternative medicine, education, paediatric oncology and
imaging.  There is a busy brachytherapy service that includes gynae, upper GI
and thoracic brachytherapy, and established Stereotactic Radiosurgery and
Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy programs serviced by state of the art
linear accelerators and a cyberknife unit.  The JCC also has comprehensive
programs in Medical Oncology, Malignant Hematology, and Surgical Oncology
(with programs in Gynae-Oncology, Lower GI, Hepatobiliary, Head & Neck,
Thoracic, Sarcoma, Urology and Neurosurgery) which provide support to the
Radiation Oncology training program through clinical rotations and expert
Academic Half-Day teaching.  The Paediatric Oncology service is based at the
McMaster Children’s Hospital, where Residents attend clinics and rounds, with
radiotherapy delivered to paediatric patients at the JCC under the supervision
of expert members of the Division of Radiation Oncology.  The technology,
patient population, and clinical programs required to provide all aspects of
clinical training exist within Hamilton with the exception of prostate
brachytherapy.  Residents attend the Odette Cancer Centre in Toronto for hands
on prostate brachyterhapy experience.   Residents in the program may travel to
other centres for additional elective experiences.  Residents of this program
have previously travelled within Ontario and Canada, to the United States, and
to Australia, Africa, and the Middle East.



The following are further resources available to the McMaster Radiation
Oncology Training Program:

Clinical Trials: The JCC is a full member of the Radiation Therapy Oncology
Group (RTOG), affiliate member of the Pediatric Oncology Group (POG), an
active participant in the National Cancer Institute of Canada – Clinical
Trials Group (NCIC-CTG) and the Ontario Clinical Oncology Group (OCOG), as
well as intergroup trials, industry trials, and in-house studies.

Supportive Care:  JCC houses the Supportive Care Cancer Research Group

Evidence-Based Medicine: McMaster University’s Department of Health Research
Methods, Evidence & Impact

Health Economics: McMaster University’s Centre for Health Economics and Policy
Analysis (CHEPA)

Education: The McMaster Education Research, Innovation and Theory (MERIT)
Program

Research training and support: The Escarpment Cancer Research Institute



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26551?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26551