#  McGill University - Nuclear Medicine - Montreal

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Regular Stream for All  

##  Last approved on December 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Marc Hickeson  

Address Nuclear Medicine  
Royal Victoria Hospital  
1001 Blvd. Décarie Room C-028711  
Montreal, Quebec, H4A 3J1  

Work  514-934-1934, ext. 31501

Fax  514-843-1539

Websites of Interest [ Postgraduate Medical Education
](http://www.mcgill.ca/pgme)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Ruth Ramadeen

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: ruth.ramadeen@muhc.mcgill.ca

Phone: 514-934-1934 x 43219

  

Name: Dr. Marc Hickeson

Title: Program Director

Email: carmsnuclear.med@mcgill.ca

  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP must be submitted with each application.  
EITHER:

  * A copy of Canadian Birth Certificate or a copy of Certificate of Canadian Citizenship

OR

  * A copy of Permanent Resident Card (copy of both sides of the card) OR a copy of an IMM 5292, IMM 1000, IMM 5688;   
NB: the Permanent Resident card can be expired.

OR

  * A copy of Citizenship Card (copy of both sides of the card)

P.S: the passport is not an acceptable proof of citizenship.

Each year, all candidates applying in a CaRMS match must provide proof of
valid current citizenship or permanent resident status. As of the 2021 R-1
match cycle, CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate
the citizenship/legal status verification, which is usually completed by
Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) offices.

if an applicant has had their citizenship/legal status documentation verified
by any of the following organizations for the current R-1 match, the applicant
will not be required to assign a proof of citizenship/PR document (as pictured
in the screenshot below).

  * Medical Council of Canada ([MCC](https://mcc.ca/))
  * British Columbia's Clinical Assessment Program ([BC-CAP](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/clinical-assessment/))
  * Bureau de cooperation interuniversitaire ([BCI](https://www.bci-qc.ca/en/))
  * Alberta International Medical Graduate Program ([AIMG](https://www.aimg.ca/))

For further information, please check the following link on CaRMS:
[https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-
citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-)

Examinations

Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the MCCQE Part I exam, please include the statement of
results and supplemental information report in your application.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the NAC exam, please include the statement of results and
supplemental information report in your application. The MCCQE Part II or
Certificate of Registration of the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada
(LMCC) is accepted in place of the NAC Examination.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. Clinical references are preferred
from physicians who have directly supervised the candidate for at least two
weeks. Letter from a senior resident is not accepted.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Applicants will have to submit a personal letter stating the reason for
selecting nuclear medicine and what they offer to the field.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Additional required IMG documents

Lettre de reconnaissance de l'équivalence du diplôme MD

Please provide the results of the exams that permitted you to have your
medical degree recognized and approved by the CMQ.

Graduates with the diploma of doctor of osteopathy awarded by a school of
osteopathic medicine situated in the United States providing that the school
is accredited by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the
American Osteopathic Association do not have to obtain the recognition of the
equivalence of the medical diploma by the CMQ. These graduates do not require
the MCCQE Part I, the National Assessment Collaboration (NAC), or the
Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada (LMCC) in order to apply.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Specific dates available: January 24,
Janaury 27 and January 29, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Personal interviews are done by video
conference. Candidates are prescreened based on the information sent to us.
All eligible applicants will be contacted in December to schedule interviews
in January. Candidates are interviewed by the individual training committee
members at each institution. The interview takes approximately half an hour to
an hour.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Mature and sensitive candidates with excellent communication and interpersonal
skill as well as a good academic record and an interest in the specialty will
be favourably looked upon. An aptitude for basic sciences (physics, radiation
biology, computers, etc.) is preferable. Electives in nuclear medicine (as a
medical student) are preferred so that a potential resident knows what to
expect from the specialty.

## Program goals

An important goal of this program is to immerse the Residents in the
competence by design framework introduced by the royal college. Important in
these competencies are communication skills, knowledge, technical skills and
professional attitudes appropriate to a lifetime career in Nuclear Medicine,
and the ability to address issues of gender, age, culture, ethnicity and
ethics in a professional manner.

Research and teaching are also strongly encouraged within our resident
program. The science of research, both on the practical and theoretical
levels, is to be encouraged in our residents with the opportunity to
participate in at least one research protocol. The moral aspects of human and
animal research and the relevance of ethics committees are emphasized. Our
Department consists of the McGill University Health Centers and the Jewish
General Hospital. This allows our residents to interact within different
environments and staff..

## Selection process goals

The specific aim of this Nuclear Medicine Program is to form competent
physicians with a sound knowledge of the fundamental sciences and clinical
applications of the specialty. A successful applicant with show communication
skills, knowledge, technical skills and professional attitudes in addition to
experience in academics to become exceptional Nuclear Physicians.

The selection committee looks for candidates that have a keen interest in
Nuclear Medicine and our residency program and having a good academic standing
is looked upon favorably. The committee also looks for individuals who will
work well with the staff and current residents as well as having the ability
to interact well with the patients.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team consists of the Program Director and
the Resident Coordinator at the Jewish General Hospital, Fellowship Director
and the Competency Chair.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We evaluate the content i.e. publication, presentations research   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Having completed an elective in Nuclear Medicine or radiology   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Successful completion of examinations are considered   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Mentoring, volunteering   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leader in organization within and outside of Medicine   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Shows strong interpersonal skills, good work habits, interest of the specialty and responsibility   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Keen interest of the specialty and writing skills   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interaction with co-workers, good work habits and interest in the specialty   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  An interest in academics i.e. research, publications   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We prefer applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Collegiality |  Positive attitude, ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  How well they respond to the questions asked either verbally or written   
Health advocacy |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Interest in the discipline |  Based on electives taken and knowledge of the Nuclear Medicine   
Interest in the program |  The types of questions they ask during the interview   
Leadership skills |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Professionalism |  How they work with staff and co-workers   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The McGill Nuclear Medicine program is designed to meet the requirements of
the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, as well as the
American Board of Nuclear Medicine.  Upon completion of training, a resident
is expected to be a medical specialist with the ability to advise on,
supervise, perform and interpret imaging and non-imaging diagnostic procedures
and to perform radiotherapy with unsealed radioactive sources to such a level
of competence as to function as a consultant to referring physicians. The
resident will be provided with appropriately supervised increasing
professional responsibility during the program based upon their individual
ability.  This will culminate in their ability to autonomously supervise their
own Nuclear Medicine department upon completion of training.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The first year begins the transition to discipline with an one month rotation
in Nuclear Medicine. This stage focuses on introducing residents to the
specialty of Nuclear Medicine, providing a comprehensive orientation to the
setting in which they will work and the goals of the educational program. They
will learn to use the equipment and technology of the nuclear medicine service
to retrieve and manipulate images, access clinical information and produce an
imaging report.

The remainder of the first year of training consists of a year in internal
medicine encompassing surgery, pediatrics and rotations in the emergency room.
Internal medicine training will cover general ward rotations but its specific
subspecialty allotment will also include cardiology and hematology/oncology
rotations. These clinic rotations focus on assessing patients and working
effectively with the clinical team. The resident will learn to provide initial
management for patients with a serious or life-threatening problem, preparing
residents to manage emergencies that occur in the nuclear medicine department.

In the second and third years, the resident trains mostly in Core Nuclear
Medicine rotations, which are usually split between the MUHC and the JGH. For
two months in the third year, the resident will spend 2 months learning
correlative imaging (Radiology) and cross-sectorial anatomy.

In the fourth year, the resident will spend 4 months learning correlative
imaging (Radiology) and cross-sectional anatomy; 1 month of Pediatric Nuclear
Medicine; up to 3 months  of PET rotations at one or both sites to build upon
the PET knowledge and core nuclear medicine rotations. Electives in the McGill
system or elsewhere can be taken with permission of the Residency Training
Committee.  Research options will be offered to qualified and interested
candidates.  Specific goals and objectives for these elective/research options
will be appropriately and individually discussed with Resident

The resident will usually begin the final year of training in a 4-weeks core
Nuclear Medicine rotation usually at the same site of the PGY-2 Resident.
Afterward, the resident will do a specific 3 to 6 month PET rotations.  The
year will finish the remainder of the year in advanced core Nuclear Medicine
rotation where the resident will consolidate their skills and act as mentors
for the junior residents, all the while being supervised by the teaching
staff.

The trainee is expected to participate in one research project of suitable
quality for publication or presentation at a major nuclear medicine or
radiology meeting. Could be basic research or retrospective/prospective
review. Maximum one year research project (would more likely be 3-6 months
project) for exceptional residents with strong record of prior research.

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

-McGill University Health Center (Glen Site)

-Jewish General Hospital

-McGill University Health Center (Montreal General Hospital Site)

-Montreal Children's Hospital

Electronic resources: residents have internet access, teaching CD-ROMS, and
online journals.

* * *

# Additional Information

Quick Facts

-The ratio of residents to faculty is 6 residents to 9 staff.

-The patient load: RVH - 40-50 studies per day shared with staff; JGH - 30-40 studies per day shared with staff

-There are no mandatory rural rotations.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26665?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26665