#  University of Toronto - Obstetrics and Gynecology - Toronto

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 08, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 10

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Julia Kfouri  

Address Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology  
University of Toronto  
123 Edward St, Suite 1200  
Toronto, Ontario, M5G 1E2  

Work  (416) 978-8352

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology
](http://www.obgyn.utoronto.ca/)  
[ PGME at U of T ](http://www.pgme.utoronto.ca)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Julia Kfouri

Title: Residency Program Director

Email: julia.kfouri@utoronto.ca

  

Name: Dr. Andrea Page

Title: Associate Program Director

  

Name: Jill Tomac

Title: Program Officer, Residency Program

  

Name: Farhana Hossain

Title: Program Coordinator, Residency Program

Email: pg.obgyn@utoronto.ca

Phone: 416-978-8352

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion**  
All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of the
University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

  
**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)**  
The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.  
  
_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

#  

The Obstetrics and Gynaecology Program at the University of Toronto is
committed to providing our residents with the best possible training
experiences to ensure their development into outstanding physicians who will
contribute to our society and the medical community as leaders, advocates,
scholars and educators. The Residency Program is embedded within a department
that actively seeks to promote Equity, Diversity and Inclusion. We seek to
develop a community of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists that reflects the wide
diversity of our community: the City of Toronto and Canada.

We strive to provide equal opportunities to all candidates who would like to
become excellent Obstetricians & Gynaecologists. We welcome applications from
people of all communities, including but not limited to racialized persons,
persons of colour, Indigenous people, persons with disabilities, LGBTQ2S
persons, and others who may contribute to the diversification of ideas and
perspectives. Our admissions process includes providing training in Equity,
Diversity and Inclusion as well as unconscious bias for all members of the
admissions committee. Our admissions process will recognize and value a wide
range of accomplishments and experiences, while using the same metrics for all
applicants at both the file review and interview stages.

**IMPORTANT -** All applicants to the University of Toronto's Obstetrics and
Gynaecology Residency Program are **required to complete an**online CASPer™
(Computer-Based Assessment for Sampling Personal Characteristics)
assessment**** , to assist with our selection process. There are a****limited
number of testing dates and times**** , so if you are planning to apply to our
program please attend to this requirement right away. More information is
available in the Additional Documents section.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 2

  1. Reference letters should comply with CaRMS applicant information under Match Tips/Letters of Reference, as follows:
     * A confidentiality statement indicating that the applicant has not seen and will not receive a copy of the letter.
     * The date the letter was written.
     * The time and duration of your contact with the applicant
     * Assessment of the applicant's:
       1. Cognitive skills and knowledge
       2. Problem solving and patient management skills
       3. Behaviour and attitudinal skills
       4. Communication skills and working relationships
       5. Motivation
       6. Sense of responsibility
       7. Procedural skills specific to the discipline
       8. Special qualities and unique contributions
     * If referee is unable to comment on a specific component of an applicant's performance in any of the above categories, referee should indicate that referee did not observe/does not have knowledge of that specific component. in the reference letter.  
  

  2. TWO letters of reference (MAXIMUM) are required. Do not submit more than TWO letters.
  3. If possible one or more letters from a faculty member in Obstetrics and Gynecology who has observed you in a clinical setting is helpful but not required.

  4. We welcome ONE letter of reference from a medical professional, university professor, employer or community leader that highlights work you may have done outside of the clinical environment. This may include work that highlights your involvement in advocacy, leadership, research, education and/or teaching, and demonstrates key aspects of the CanMEDS roles such as collaboration, communication, advocacy and professionalism.   
  

  5. Letters from Residents or Fellows are not accepted.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Candidate photographs will only be used during the interview stage and will
not be released prior (i.e. in selecting residents for or during file review).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

Describe why you are interested in a career in Obstetrics & Gynaecology. Your
personal letter is an opportunity to speak to your professional motivations
and ambitions; your leadership experience and aspirations as well as your
interpersonal and communication skills.

Please feel welcome to share any circumstances or lived experiences that will
contribute to the diversity of experience and thought in our program and
profession, including but not limited to your identity as a Black, Indigenous
or racialized student, or a member of the LGBTQ2S and differently-abled
communities. We also welcome you to share your experience as an ally to others
in your journey.

For candidates voluntarily self-identifying as Black Canadians or Americans,
or a member of an Indigenous community, if you would like your application to
be reviewed by a Black Canadian faculty member, **please indicate this in the
first line of your letter**. Note that although we do not currently have any
self-identified Indigenous faculty members, we have several Black faculty
members participating in our process.

Maximum word count: 1000 (no minimum)  
  
_Important Note: Please address any gaps in training or remediation periods in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count._





Custom Résumé / CV

Your CV should highlight your accomplishments. Please ensure that references
to presented/published work, if any, are included, **ideally with a hyperlink
to the work in question**.

Detailed outline of medical practice experience

If applicable, for anyone who has had an independent medical practice/license.

Documentation of prior postgraduate training

If applicable, for anyone who has prior postgraduate training.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Only COMPLETED applications released through CaRMS and adhering to their
application deadline will be reviewed.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be conducted virtually.  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process:

  1. The interview team and process has been developed according to our department's commitment to equity, diversity and inclusion.
  2. Applicants will have multiple interviews by different teams that include senior residents, faculty members, and allied health.
  3. There will be opportunities to meet with the Residency Program Leadership and current residents during the interview period. Interview candidates are encouraged to participate in the virtual social event, where they can learn more about the program and meet with residents and faculty in an informal setting. This event will take place during the evening of Thursday, January 23, 2025. 

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Resident selection is based on a combination of outcomes in the following
areas: (1) the results of the CASPer Exam, (2) the applicant file review, and
(3) the interviews.

**1) CASPer Exam**

All applicants must complete a CASPer(tm) (Computer-Based Assessment for
Sampling Personal Characteristics) test to submit with their application
through CaRMS. CASPer is an online test which assesses for non-cognitive
skills and interpersonal characteristics. To see an example of the test
structure and schedule a test, please visit
[http://www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/). Please direct any
inquiries on the test to
[support@takecasper.com](mailto:support@takecasper.com).

Test dates for 1st Iteration: A limited number of test dates and times will be
available, so do not delay in registering.

**2) File Review**

Each component of the candidate's online CaRMS application is reviewed and
scored by 2-3 members of the program's Resident Selection Subcommittee.
Members include both faculty and senior residents. Reviewers use a standard
form for scoring. Applicants with the highest file review scores are invited
to interview.

**3) Interviews**

The interview format will be provided to candidates offered an interview, in
advance of their interview date. Interviews will be conducted by a team of
faculty, senior residents and/or allied health. Candidates should anticipate
that they will meet with more than one team.

A standard set of questions and standardized scoring is used for interviews.
Each question is linked to interview components as listed in the Interview
Process section below.

**NOTE:** The program will accommodate re-scheduling due to technology failure
or unforeseen circumstances; however, rescheduled interviews must occur within
the two days designated for our interview process (see interview section for
further details). Accommodations due to unforeseen issues on the second day of
interviews will be considered on a case-by-case basis but are subject to
availability of our interviewers and must be rescheduled before our rank order
meeting the following week.  
  

**Applicant Ranking**

  * CASPer Exam results will be used as part of the screening process.
  * Applicants are ranked based on a cumulative score of File Review Score and Interview Score.  
  * Applicants are placed on a ranking list according to their combined scores.
  * The Resident Selection Subcommittee reserves the right to adjust the final rankings by consensus to address issues of program priority and diversity.

## Program goals

The University of Toronto Obstetrics & Gynaecology residency program seeks to
train highly skilled Obstetricians and Gynaecologists who are representative
of the diversity in our population.

Our graduates will be:

  * Exemplary in all CanMEDs roles
  * Excellent clinicians and surgeons
  * Competent to practice in community and/or academic settings
  * Prepared to pursue careers that include both clinical practice and leading roles in research, QIPS, education, advocacy, and/or administration.
  * Skilled at working with a diverse & multicultural population
  * Balanced practitioners who value both personal wellness and professional fulfillment

## Selection process goals

The University of Toronto Obstetrics & Gynaecology residency program seeks to
bring together a group of residents who will enrich and inspire our community,
within and outside of medicine. We value the life experiences of all
applicants and are interested to hear how your experience of culture, race,
social and economic background, gender and/or sexual expression may have
informed your understanding of the medical profession and your personal goals
as a future Obstetrician & Gynaecologist.

We value proven interest and ability in many different arenas, including but
not limited to leadership, advocacy and scholarly work.

Our selection process emphasizes the following traits:

  * Compassion
  * Communication skills
  * Collegiality and teamwork
  * Professional behaviours and attitudes
  * Self-reflective abilities
  * Respect for the wellbeing of colleagues, family and self
  * Potential for academic success. 
  * Adaptability and Resilience





## File review process

Review team composition : Files are reviewed and scored by faculty and senior
residents. The review team chair (faculty member) plays an advisory role and
does not participate in scoring files. The program administrator collates and
anonymizes data. The data review group reviews anonymized data and provides a
final rank order list for interview offers.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Academic success, scholarly activity and research projects, leadership roles, advocacy projects, work experiences, clinical work experience (if any)   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  At least one elective in ObGyn is encouraged. There is no preference for electives completed in Toronto or with University of Toronto faculty members.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Academic success   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of sustained leadership, advocacy and service-oriented interests, ability to work in teams, collaboration   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Abilities and interests in leading teams   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic success, communication and collaboration skills, professionalism   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest and insight into the specialty, resilience, communication skills, reflection on lived experiences   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Academic success, surgical potential, scholarly activity, collaboration skills, professionalism, communication abilities, compassion, insight   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in scholarly activity; evidence of sustained scholarly work is not required but will be considered   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Potential for academic success in residency   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: At least one elective in ObGyn is advised.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We do not require applicants to have completed electives at a University of
Toronto affiliated hospital site.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due
to weather, technology failure or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work in team settings   
Collegiality |  Allyship, interest in helping colleagues and working for the communal good   
Communication skills |  Outstanding ability to communicate complex concepts   
Health advocacy |  Insight into when and how to advocate for patients and populations   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated insight into the rewards and challenges of the specialty; knowledge of and suitability for competence-based education   
Interest in the program |  Interest in training in a large, multi-site program in a large urban centre   
Leadership skills |  Ability to motivate a team, problem solve, people skills   
Professionalism |  Dedication, responsibility, commitment, collegiality, insight, ethical decision making, and commitment to principles of equity, diversity and inclusion   
Scholarly activities |  Interest in scholarly work, ability to identify and articulate a scholarly problem   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology at the University of Toronto is
**committed to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (EDI)**. We seek to use the
principles of EDI to inform our work in our key focus areas of: Research,
Quality Improvement and Patient Safety (QIPS), Global Health and Community
Advocacy. Our education programs at both the undergraduate and postgraduate
levels are strongly integrated with all of these initiatives. Our residents
are leaders and key participants in the academic life of our department as we
pursue this work.

Our program provides comprehensive training in Obstetrics & Gynaecology
leading to Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons certification. Strengths
of our program include:

  * An innovative and successful curriculum. Our RCPSC Competence-by-Design (CBD) Curriculum will welcome our 7th cohort in July 2025. Our faculty have developed expertise and experience in the delivery of this curriculum.
  * Integration with the RCPSC Surgical Foundations Program including a dedicated Surgical Skills Prep Camp, focus on Quality Improvement, a year-long seminar series, and preparation for the RCPSC Surgical Foundations exam in PGY2.
  * A Surgical Skills curriculum designed for the acquisition of basic and advanced technical skills in obstetrics and gynaecology using bench models, trainers and simulation.
  * A weekly Academic-Half Day (AHD) curriculum that includes review of essential topics led by both faculty and residents.
  * Clinical Epidemiology sessions.
  * **A supportive and nurturing learning environment** that includes a robust Resident Wellbeing program embedded in all aspects of the residency program.
  * Longitudinal ambulatory clinical rotations in both the first year of residency and during Transition to Practice (TTP) that allows for clinical continuity and mentorship.
  * A diverse patient population and multiple training sites, providing a range of clinical situations and practice settings.
  * A focus on scholarly activity including mentorship, peer feedback through regular research proposal sessions, and opportunities to conduct projects with a variety of faculty exploring novel and ground-breaking topics in basic or clinical research, QIPS, Education or Advocacy.
  * A well-established QIPS program that welcomes resident involvement.
  * The [Clinician Investigator Program (CIP)](https://cip.utoronto.ca/), a fully funded two-year program (resident must apply and be accepted, usually during PGY2) leading to a Master’s degree or a PhD, which is normally undertaken between PGY3 and PGY5. There are also opportunities to fund residents who wish to pursue a master’s or PhD outside of the CIP program.
  * Many opportunities for residents to initiate and lead advocacy projects.
  * A strong Global Health program, with opportunities to pursue Global Health courses and [Global Health opportunities.](https://www.obgyn.utoronto.ca/global-health-opportunities)
  * Numerous opportunities to develop skills in medical education, with opportunities to take teaching courses, teach undergraduate medical students and conduct research.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Competency By Design (CBD)**

In 2019, the Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology launched a Competency by
Design (CBD) curriculum, under the direction and guidance of the Royal College
of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. More information about this curriculum
is available here: [Competence by Design
(CBD)](https://www.royalcollege.ca/en/standards-and-accreditation/competence-
by-design.html). CBD aims to enhance patient care by aligning medical
education and lifelong learning with evolving patient needs and empowering
learners to more fully engage in their education process. The residency
programs is broken down into four training stages, and each stage requires the
successful achievement of Entrusted Professional Activities (EPA’s) based upon
required competencies.

All programs implementing CBD continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes and continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification. Certification for trainees will include the completion of a
Royal College examination.

For more information, contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

**Stages of Training**

The four stages of Obstetrics & Gynaecology are (with approximate number of
blocks*):

  * Transition to Discipline (4 blocks)
  * Foundations of Discipline (22 blocks)
  * Core of Discipline (30 blocks)
  * Transition to Practice (9 blocks)

Legend: For the following section, please note that each block is (4)-four
weeks in length. For reasons of legibility, we have included site
abbreviations; the full name of each hospital as well as a link are provided
in the Training Sites section below.

**  
PGY1 & PGY2**

During PGY1, residents will complete Transition to Discipline (TTD) and the
first nine blocks of Foundations of Discipline (FOD). The remaining FOD
rotations will be completed in PGY2. Residents will be assigned a base
hospital in PGY1, where they will complete the majority of their rotations;
this is to encourage a greater sense of community as they rotate through their
off-service rotation requirements.

**Rotations include the following** (site codes are explained in the Training
Site section)**:**

**Transition to Discipline (TTD)**

  * **Transition to Residency** (1 block) (various downtown sites)
  * **Obstetrics and Gynaecology** at a major teaching hospital site (1 block) (MSH, SHSC, SMH)
  * **Obstetrics and Gynaecology** at a community hospital site (1 block) (NYGH, MGH, THP-CV, SJHC)
  * One of the following FOD rotations.

**Foundations of Discipline (FOD)**

  * **Emergency Medicine** (1 block) (MGH, SHSC, UHN)
  * **General Surgery** (1 block) (MGH, MSH)
  * **Gynaecologic Oncology** (1 block) (UHN-PMH, SHSC)
  * **Intensive Care Unit (Medical Surgical)** (1 block) (MSH, SHSC, SMH)
  * **Internal Medicine** (1 block Clinical Teaching Unit) (MSH, SHSC, SMH)
  * **Obstetrics and Gynaecology** at a community hospital site (1 block) (NYGH, MGH, THP-CV, SJHC)
  * **Ultrasound**(1 block) (MSH/SJHC/TNI, SMH)
  * **Longitudinal Ambulatory Rotation (LAR)** (2 half-days per month from Sept to June) (MGH, MSH, NYGH, SHSC, SJHC, SMH, WCH) 
    * During LAR, the PGY1 trainee will work in an obstetrics and/or gynaecology ambulatory clinic two half-days per month from September to June, directly with a faculty member who acts as a preceptor and mentor. While PGY1s benefit from a breadth of experiences (both on and off-service) during their first year of training, the LAR helps to ensure residents remain connected with their core interest and their colleagues.

The following FOD rotations may occur either in PGY1 or PGY2:

  * **Obstetrics and Gynaecology** at a major teaching-hospital site (3 blocks) (MSH, SHSC, SMH)
  * **Ambulatory Internal Medicine** (1 block) (WCH)
  * **Ambulatory Obstetrics and Gynaecology** (1 block) (MSH, SHSC, SMH)
  * **Family Planning** (1 block) (WCH and various clinic sites)

During PGY2, residents will continue to complete the FOD stage of their
training, spending the bulk of the year on the Core Obstetrics and Gynaecology
services, as well as spending a few weeks in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit
(NICU) and planning a scholarly project.

** **

**PGY3, PGY4 & PGY5**

**Core of Discipline (COD)**

The COD stage begins in PGY3 and continues until the Royal College (RC)
written exam in the fall of PGY5. Training during this stage focuses on
subspecialty disciplines and advanced training in core Obstetrics &
Gynaecology.

The order of rotations will vary. All residents have exposure to community
practice throughout the program. Our residents will pursue a course of
training that includes:

  * **General Obstetrics and Gynaecology** (at major teaching hospitals, community-hospital sites, and endoscopy centres) (4 blocks) (MGH, MSH, NYGH, SHSC, SJHC, SMH, THP-CV)
  * **Chief Residency** period, focused on leadership and administration in Obstetrics & Gynaecology (6 blocks total; some may occur in TTP) (MGH, MSH, NYGH, SHSC, SMH, THP-CV)
  * **Gynaecologic Oncology** (4 blocks) (SHSC, UHN-PMH, THP-CV)
  * **Gynaecologic Reproductive Endocrinology, Infertility and Menopause** (2 blocks) (MSH)
  * **Paediatric and Adolescent Gynaecology** (1 block) (HSC)
  * **Maternal-Fetal Medicine** (3 blocks) (MSH, SHSC)
  * **Urogynaecology**(3 blocks) (MSH, SHSC)
  * Focused time to work on a **Scholarly Project** (up to 3 blocks) (site varies)

**Transition to Practice (TTP)**

TTP is the final stage of training in the residency program and will begin
after the RC written exams in the fall of PGY5 and all COD EPAs have been
achieved. This time will be spent consolidating skills in anticipation of
independent practice or fellowship, culminating in the Royal College oral
exams in the spring.

The remaining 13 blocks are set aside for residents to personalize their
residency training during the COD and TTP stages, including up to (3)-three
rotations outside of Ontario (includes global health electives). The program
offers a number of pre-defined experiences in areas such as Lower Genital
Tract Diseases; however, residents can opt to create their own rotation
objectives with an approved faculty supervisor.

**Scholarly Project Requirement**

During residency training, each resident completes a scholarly project in
clinical or education research, Quality Improvement (QI) or basic science,
under the guidance of a faculty supervisor. Residents are supported through
every stage of the process to ensure they gain training and experience in
research methodology, ethics, proposal writing, literature review, data work,
writing a manuscript and presentation at the Department’s Annual Research Day.
Satisfactory completion of residency training at the University of Toronto
requires completion of a scholarly project.

The program encourages residents to attend and present their findings at
conferences and meetings through an educational fund set up for each resident.
Residents who come to the program with previous research training and/or
experience will benefit from the University of Toronto’s extensive network of
faculty and staff, as well as leadership and mentorship opportunities.

Residents who would like more focused time to complete scholarly work can
choose to pause their clinical training and apply to the Clinician-
Investigator Program or other post-graduate programs as approved by the
Program Director.

* * *

# Training Sites

**UofT OBGYN Residency Clinical Sites**

The University of Toronto Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology provides all
levels of care to the local community, and tertiary and quaternary care to the
Province of Ontario. Together, all core teaching-hospital sites within the
Greater Toronto Area (GTA) have over 35,000 deliveries a year and a large
number/variety of gynaecologic operative cases. Our residents are privileged
to have the opportunity to learn and work in many different hospitals. This
great strength of our program allows the residents to develop strong
relationships with many faculty members, meet patients from across Toronto,
representing all the cultural diversity of this city, and to experience many
different styles of practice.

Residency clinical teaching sites are as follows:

  * [Mount Sinai Hospital](http://www.mountsinai.on.ca/) (MSH)
  * [St. Michael's Hospital](http://www.stmichaelshospital.com/) (SMH)
  * [Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre](http://sunnybrook.ca/) (SHSC)
  * [North York General Hospital](http://www.nygh.on.ca/) (NYGH)
  * [Hospital for Sick Children](http://www.sickkids.ca/) (HSC)
  * [Princess Margaret Hospital](http://www.theprincessmargaret.ca/en/Pages/Default.aspx) (PMH)/[University Health Network](http://www.uhn.ca/) (UHN)
  * [St. Joseph's Health Centre](https://unityhealth.to/locations/st-josephs-health-centre/) (SJHC)
  * [Trillium Health Partners - Credit Valley Hospital](https://www.thp.ca/Pages/Home.aspx) (THP)
  * [Michael Garron Hospital](https://www.tehn.ca/) (MGH)
  * [Women’s College Hospital](https://www.womenscollegehospital.ca/) (WCH)

All residents can expect to rotate through several of these hospital sites
during their training. All sites are accessible by public transportation.  
  

For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>



* * *

# Additional Information

1) **UofT OBGYN Information Session**

Our Department is hosting virtual information sessions. Dr. Julia Kfouri,
Residency Program Director, Dr. Andrea Page, Associate Program Director, other
faculty members, and residents will be available to answer questions and
provide information about our Program.

**Dates and Times** :

  * September 26, 2024 from 5:30-7:00PM EST
  * November 6, 2024 from 5:30-7:00PM EST

To register for one or multiple sessions, please provide your contact details
at [LINK](https://obgyn-uoft.forms-db.com/view.php?id=161983)

  
If you are looking to come to Toronto for the first time, please see [Toronto:
The World at your
Doorstep](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ElmVUKUgVig&feature=youtu.be)

  
2) **Meeting with the Current Residents**

If you would like to find out more about our residents' experience in the
program, we would be happy to put you in touch with a current resident. If you
are interested, please contact
[pg.obgyn@utoronto.ca](mailto:pg.obgyn@utoronto.ca).

**Additional Ontario Information:**

  1. **Permanent Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education office in order to comply with current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry.
  2. **Matched applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data file to the matched university’s postgraduate education office. The postgraduate office will share the information as needed, but not limited to the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:**  The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure to meet or provide proof**  of any of the stated requirements may result in applicant file being removed at any point during the match.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26728?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26728