#  McMaster University - Internal Medicine - Hamilton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 27, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Leslie Martin  

Address Internal Medicine Residency Program  
Room 1K11  
1280 Main Street West  
Hamilton , Ontario, L8S 4K1  

(905) 521-2100, ext. 76396

(905) 521-2100, ext 76388

Websites of Interest [ Internal Medicine Program
](https://medicine.healthsci.mcmaster.ca/education/internal-medicine-
residency-program/)  
[ Postgraduate Education ](https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/)  
[ McMaster Internal Medicine Intro Video
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rd9aMemydf0)  
[ Pre-CaRMS info site
](https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Ms. Jan Taylor

Title: Program Administrator

Email: jtayl@mcmaster.ca

Phone: 905-521-2100 Ext 76396

  

General Information: Program Contact

Name: Dr. Leslie Martin

Title: Program Director

Email: jtayl@mcmaster.ca

Phone: (905) 521-2100, ext. 76396

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/).  It is important to review the
requirements carefully.

To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit:
<https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/>

In the interest of equity and fairness, please keep in mind that the Program
Director and Deputy Program Directors are unable to meet with individual
candidates before interviews. Prior to and during the interview process,
virtual town halls and drop-in question and answer sessions will be held and
can be viewed on the CanPREPP Events website    <https://canprepp.ca/>



* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

**Additional criteria for IMGs:**

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Applicants should carefully follow all CaRMS application instructions and
deadlines.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site.**

**CELPIP:  **must have minimum score of 9 in each of the four skills in the
same sitting

**IELTS ACADEMIC:  **must have minimum score of 7.0 in each of the four skills
in the same sitting

**Letter of language proficiency** is a letter from your Dean attesting that
your medical school program of instruction was completed solely in English or
French.

**OET MEDICINE** : must have minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in
the same sitting

**TOEFL IBT:  **must have minimum score of 93 with a minimum score of 24 on
the speaking section. The **TOEFL iBT Home Edition**  will be accepted as a
substitute for the TOEFL iBT.

Examinations

Required

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

**The National Assessment Collaboration (NAC) Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE)  is mandatory for all IMGs. **The results are required by the file review opening date. For more information click on the following link [National Assessment Collaboration | Medical Council of Canada](http://mcc.ca/examinations/nac-overview/)

A pass result for the MCCQE2 exam will be accepted as an alternative to the
NAC OSCE.

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

Please submit MCCQE1 supplemental information report

**The MCCQE1 is****mandatory**  for the 2023 CaRMS match. Exam results must be
provided by the File Review opening date.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three (3) reference letters are required. Must be from a clinical supervisor
who can adequately comment on your clinical performance and interpersonal
skills. Our Program does not accept reference letters from residents. A file
will be considered incomplete without the required 3 references. Additional
references beyond 3 will be discarded.  References from our institution are
not rated higher than references from your home institution.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  700

  

Up to a maximum of 700 words combined total which answer these two prompts:

1. There are many qualities that make an outstanding physician.  Indicate one quality you believe will provide a solid foundation for success for a resident trainee in Internal Medicine.  Provide a rationale for your choice.

2.  Please reflect on your personal journey and how this has let you to apply to Internal Medicine at McMaster

The McMaster Internal Medicine program prioritizes inclusive excellence.
Information that is shared in your personal letter about your journey will
only serve to benefit your application.

**Note:** The Internal Medicine Program recognizes the profound social biases
and systemic barriers which have contributed to the historic and current
underrepresentation of Indigenous, Black or individuals with disabilities
within the program. If you identify as Indigenous, Black, or as having a
disability, or if you identify with more than one of these groups, we invite
you to share your identity(ies) in the prompt above (question #2) as part of
your personal journey. The Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion committee will
conduct a third review process, which could benefit your application
considerations depending upon your placement within your quartile, where each
quartile represents 25% of all applicants.

Custom Résumé / CV

Conditionally required

Documentation of prior postgraduate training

(if applicable) Please include detail regarding specific rotation, degree of
responsibility (eg. junior/senior resident) for any postgraduate training

Detailed outline of medical practice experience

(if applicable)  Applicant should prepare and submit detailed outline of
medical practice experience **beyond medical school,** including setting of
clinical practice and type of patients encountered (ie inpatient/outpatient;
General Medicine/ Subspecialty, acuity, level of responsibility)

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed.

Optional - will be reviewed

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All applications will be reviewed. Candidates with top scores on the NAC and
MCCQE1 and recent clinical experience will undergo a comprehensive file review
by a faculty and resident committee and the Program Director or Deputy Program
Director to determine final interview offers.

Due to the large number of applicants, we are unable to provide feedback
regarding unsuccessful applications. Those selected for interview will be
contacted by email on January 10 and via CaRMS using the email address
identified on the application. Those not offered an interview will be notified
on January 10 via CaRMS.  Files cannot be re-opened for additional review
after interview offers go out.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 23, 2025
  * January 28, 2025
  * January 30, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interivew dates: January 23, 28 and 30.
Candidates selected for interview will be contacted on January 10 via CaRMS
and by email, and offered a choice of available dates on a first-come, first-
served basis.  Instructions will be provided to access the national online
interview booking platform for Internal Medicine.  Candidates not selected for
interview will also be notified on January 10 via CaRMS.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The interview day will begin with a
formal information session given by the IM Program Director followed by
information given by the IM residents. The interview itself is 30 minutes in
length with two faculty members of the Department of Medicine. All interviews
for 2025 will be virtual.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The application and selection process for the McMaster Internal Medicine
Residency Program is designed to be fair and transparent.  A large pool of
applicants is screened by faculty and resident file reviewers with the goal of
selecting a cohort to be invited for an interview.  Issues of conflict of
interest are identified and managed. Following the interview sessions, a
faculty committee reviews each candidate on interview performance and other
professional attributes before compiling a rank order list. The Program
Director and CaRMS Interview Chair review the rank order list prior to
submission to CaRMS to ensure accuracy.  

The McMaster Internal Medicine program prioritizes inclusive excellence. In
collaboration with the McMaster Equity and Inclusion office, as well as the
Internal Medicine Subcommittee on Equity, Diversity and Inclusion, we have
created an intentional process to strategically enhance the recruitment and
retention of equity-deserving and/or under-represented residents, and to
monitor and receive feedback on this process.

## Program goals

The McMaster Internal Medicine Residency Program is a structured, safe
environment that fosters open communication and collaboration between
residents and other residency program stakeholders to build and maintain a
residency program that not only meets, but aspires to exceed the General and
Specialty Specific Standards of Accreditation for Internal Medicine as per the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

## Selection process goals

Our program invites motivated, self-directed residents who are enthusiastic
for a career in Internal Medicine to apply to the McMaster program.

The program seeks applicants who are dedicated to delivering high quality care
and who have demonstrated high aptitude in clinical medicine and the
application of best practices.  In addition, we are interested in candidates
who are keen to learn the skills of evidence-based medicine so they ultimately
practice medicine in accord with its tenets.  Additional roles in curriculum
development, other leadership roles in undergraduate MD programs and research
productivity are reviewed.

An ideal candidate is one who is interested in developing competency in
Internal Medicine while building skills in leadership, team collaboration and
lifelong learning.  A candidate with high professional standards who is
respectful of others, including his or her peers, will thrive in this
supportive learning environment.  

## File review process

Review team composition : Active faculty educators and residents are assigned
files for review with all files being reviewed in duplicate. All file
reviewers undergo anti-bias training. In addition, the Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion Committee will conduct a third review process of files where
candidates identify in their personal statement as Indigenous, Black, or
having a disability (or if you identify with more than one of these groups)
This could benefit your application considerations depending on placement in
your quartile.  
The Program Director and/or Deputy Program Director will compile all file
reviews to assess consistency and conduct an additional review in the setting
of discrepancy.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 401 - 600  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  
Due to the large number of applications received each year, and the limited
number of positions available, only about 12% of applicants can be offered an
interview.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Education, Electives, Research, Leadership, Awards, Teaching, Advocacy - aim for less than 4-5 pages   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Candidates must demonstrate that they have clinical experiences that ensure they are making an informed decision about entering Internal Medicine.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Medical knowledge is evaluated with this required component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Demonstration of leadership, advocacy, administration, teaching, life skills are most relevant   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Undergraduate program activities, committee work, employment, team leadership in extra-curriculars, etc   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Knowledge, skill and attitude in the clinical environment and interest and aptitude for Internal Medicine   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Succinct, relevant to Internal Medicine, authentic, addresses the questions posed   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  3 references. Choose faculty supervisors who knows them well in clinical setting.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research activities, publications, poster/oral presentations, book chapters as noted in CV   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Assessed for academic achievement   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We recognize that access to electives is limited and
would like to reassure you that a lack of McMaster-based electives will not
negatively impact your application to our program. Electives or home-based
rotations in Medicine or its subspecialties are recommended to allow
candidates a perspective on careers in the field.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We recognize the limitations to external electives during your MD training.
While it is advantageous for students to experience the site where they wish
to pursue future training, it is not an advantage in file review.

Electives in General Internal Medicine and the Medicine Specialties provide
excellent experiences to determine career path and to demonstrate interest in
core Internal Medicine.



## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Conveys a team centered approach based on attitude and applicant's description of past experiences   
Collegiality |  Polite, respectful of others in interactions at interview and leading up to interview   
Communication skills |  Clear style of communication, both verbal and non-verbal. Connects well with interview team   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrates attitude of health promotion for patients and/or community   
Interest in the discipline |  Able to briefly describe and support their interest   
Interest in the program |  Should be able to demonstrate effort was invested to understand and explore program highlights pre-interview   
Leadership skills |  Demonstration of leadership qualities through discussing past experiences and goals for future   
Professionalism |  Considerate of other applicants, respects and contributes to living, learning and working environments that are free from harassment and discrimination and promotes diversity   
Scholarly activities |  Demonstrates interest in building scholarship in education and/or research during training   
Other interview component(s) |  All interviews will be conducted virtually. Candidates are encouraged to be their true self while having a conversation with the interviewers guided by a few standardized questions. Time permitting, the candidate will have an opportunity to ask a question towards the end of the interview. Medical knowledge is not tested during the interview process.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * **Overview:** A** ** fast paced and skill intensive program rich in early and ongoing enhancements to prepare residents for leadership positions within the domains of the clinician, researcher and/or educator.

  * ****Resident-centered Program** : **We are committed to involving residents in all major decisions affecting the shape and character of the program. We rely on feedback and suggestions by the residents to continue to maintain the educational integrity of the program. Residents are involved and often lead with faculty/program supervision for the development of major academic components of the curriculum.

  * **International Health Elective:  T**he Internal Medicine Program offers three PGY3 residents annually the opportunity to participate in a fully funded competitive one month elective in Uganda. There is a reciprocal Program for residents from Uganda to participate in clinical rotations in Hamilton. Restrictions due to COVID may restrict availability.

  * **Mentorship and Academic Coaching:**  The program has a formal mentorship opportunity for all residents. Residents have the option to invite a faculty mentor of their choice to serve as their mentor. In accordance with the standards for Competency-Based Medical Education, each resident will be assigned an Academic Coach who will oversee the resident's clinical and academic progress.  Additionally, the resident wellness committee facilitates a peer mentorship program for interested residents.

  * **Royal College Examination Preparation** : The program took early steps to prepare residents for the advancement of the Royal College Examination from the PGY4 to the PGY3 year.  A PGY3 Exam Impact Committee was formed in 2018 resulting in several program-related recommendations to ease transition.  A few of the changes include: reduction in call duties for PGY3's without imposing a call penalty on PGY2 residents; study group time built into the weekly PGY3 Academic Half Day (AHD); a 14-week exam prep lecture series delivered by recently credentialed FRCPC subspecialty residents; program-paid subscription to NEJM Knowledge Plus - an extensive online question bank with adaptive learning for each resident; front-loading of the heaviest clinical blocks in the first two years of training; research curriculum and project timelines shifted forward to reduce demands during the home stretch.  Written practice exams occur annually.  The program organizes annual practice OSCEs for all core trainees.  

  * **Competency-Based Medical Education (CBME)** :  Internal Medicine programs follow a CBME curriculum pathway. Resident champions representing each PG year sit on the CBME Resident Development Committee to partner with faculty educators in developing best standards of assessment and learning.

  * **External Electives:  ** There are three external electives during the core years which can be taken anywhere in Canada.  Elective rotations are approved by the Program Director. All three external electives occur before the start of Block 4 in the PGY3 year and in advance of the PGY4 CaRMS match. 

  * **Faculty Resource:**   There are over 300 active part-time and full-time faculty.

  * **Community GIM Rotation:   **The mandatory Community GIM block is usually scheduled in the PGY2 or PGY3 year.  There are many available sites that are fully funded by the province, and will cover expenses for transportation and lodging. 

  * **Research** :  World class researchers in the Department of Medicine at McMaster are available as teachers for an Evidence Based Medicine (EBM) and Research Curriculum, and as mentors for research projects. There is a growing community of researchers in the field of QI and Patient Safety.  Please find a full description of our EBM and Research Curriculum in the Program Curriculum section below.

  * **Simulation:** The program includes a longitudinal simulation curriculum to help trainees practice acute resuscitation and procedural skills in a safe, supervised setting. The simulation sessions make use of high-fidelity mannequins and task trainers to create an authentic learning environment and allow faculty to provide accurate real-time instruction and feedback.

  * **Point of Care Ultrasound Curriculum:   **Includes PGY1 ultrasound-guided procedures workshop, as well as PGY2 Lung and Cardiac PoCUS workshops. During two academic half day sessions, you will be introduced to the theory of PoCUS, and will learn how to properly acquire cardiac and lung ultrasound images in a small group setting. Once you have mastered image acquisition on healthy standardized patients, you will perform  supervised scans on real patients with real pathology to hone your image interpretation skills. PoCUS rounds occur twice yearly.

  * **Social Medicine:** This two- or four-week rotation was developed by the resident-led Internal Medicine Social Medicine Committee. The rotation seeks to enhance residents’ knowledge of social factors affecting the health of our Hamilton community and skills in caring for marginalized populations.  The rotation includes inpatient and outpatient addictions medicine, home visits with an internist caring for vulnerable populations, shelter health clinic, hemoglobinopathy clinic (with a focus on anti-racism), transitional beds program (for high-risk patients after hospitalization), tuberculosis clinic, refugee health clinic, pre-exposure prophylaxis clinic and harm reduction outreach services.  Residents are paired with a faculty supervisor who provides an individualized orientation and regular debrief. 

  *  **Resident Wellness:**  There is an active Resident Wellness Committee which has the full support of our program. In light of the growing national concerns regarding resident and physician health, wellness is recognized as a top priority. 

  * **Equity, Diversity and Inclusion:  ** The program has a Resident Education Subcommittee for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion co-chaired by a resident and a faculty supervisor. The purpose of this committee is to improve and incorporate EDI curriculum and principles into our Internal Medicine training. The committee’s initiatives and events include:

      1. Developing EDI learning activities for trainees within the Internal Medicine department and determining ways in which colleagues can improve EDI skills
      2. Reviewing ways in which the Internal Medicine program contributes to the McMaster and local EDI communities
      3. Reviewing or recommending ways in which diversity can be enhanced within the Internal Medicine program, including, and not limited to the CaRMS admission process





* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The core residency program is three years in length and is geared to prepare
residents for advancement to subspecialty training. McMaster residents who do
not match to a subspecialty program can complete their 4th year of training as
an extension of the core program at McMaster.  

The unique features of the McMaster University clinical curriculum include the
following:

**Early  Critical Care Exposure: **One of the strengths of the McMaster
program is the early development of clinical and technical skills. Residents
spend two months in an Intensive Care rotation in PGY1 where they are
responsible directly to the ICU attending physician. This critical care
experience in the first year facilitates a smooth transition into a senior
role.  

**Ambulatory Care:** The Program has a strong commitment to provide holistic
experience in the ambulatory care setting. The PGY1 year includes two
mandatory blocks in ambulatory care, including one GIM block in the Boris
Ambulatory CTU. The ambulatory care clinic rotation allows the resident to
select half-day clinics in subspecialties of their choice. There is a large
variety of subspecialty clinic opportunities within and outside Hamilton.

Residents in either PGY2 or PGY3 have the opportunity for two additional
blocks in ambulatory care, focusing in either the subspecialties of their
choice or areas selected to round out their clinical experience. In addition
to these dedicated ambulatory care rotations, each subspecialty rotation
provides clinic-based experiences. Many rotations such as endocrinology,
rheumatology and allergy/immunology are primarily outpatient rotations.

**Flexibility:   **Mandatory clinical rotations include GIM, ICU, Cardiology,
Community and Nephrology. Every attempt is made to allow residents to choose
subspecialties in their preferred year of training. The Program Director will
review all schedules individually to ensure residents have the training
experiences to achieve the necessary competencies per the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. Availability of diverse rotation
experiences.  Resident preferences shape individual schedules.

**Clinical Curriculum**  
Our goal is to train residents who can deal effectively with the full range of
medical patients, from chronic multi-system disease to the critically ill.
Aside from a robust clinical experience, the program offers a well-developed
academic curriculum built on CanMEDS core competencies which allows residents
to obtain the skills necessary for independent practice and a successful
career.

**Competency Based Medical Education (CBME)/Competence by Design (CBD)**

The program provides orientation and ongoing support to residents as they
progress through the stages of CBME training.  Infrastructure has been put in
place to accommodate the process including:

  * Ongoing faculty and resident education/development in CBD - workshops, videos, role playing
  * On the ground Deputy Program Directors, Site Coordinator, CTU Directors, Resident CBME champions
  * Competence Committee for resident assessment and promotion
  * Faculty Chair of Assessment and Assessment Coordinators to support residents who will benefit from enhanced education planning
  * New practice standards to improve efficiencies on the CTU, such as geographic cohorting of team patients
  * Orientation manuals and resident road maps to guide residents in meeting stage specific EPA's and other training parameters
  * Electronic platform (MedSIS) with mobile access for documentation of workplace based assessments, also useful for tracking EPA progress, personal resident e-portfolio, access to In Training Evaluation Reports (ITERS)
  * Restructuring of the workforce to supplement CTU day and after hour resident duties allowing for increased time for bedside coaching and direct observation/evaluation
  * Dedicated Chair of Medicine and GIM Division Director who are highly engaged and supportive of CBME

**Research**

Residents are provided a focused research and evidence-based medicine
curriculum in the PGY1 year and participate in a yearly evidence-based
medicine retreat.  The Resident Research Director or Deputy Directors meet
yearly with trainees to provide individualized support. Residents have the
opportunity to complete a research selective rotation.

PGY-1  
**Mandatory:**

  * General Medicine Clinical Teaching Units (CTU): 4 blocks, including 4 weeks of hybrid ER Consult/Ward rotation 
  * Intensive Care: 2 blocks
  * Ambulatory Care Clinics: 2 blocks

**Selectives:**

  * 4-5 blocks in medicine subspecialties: cardiology, gastroenterology, geriatric medicine, clinical allergy/immunology, hematology, infectious diseases, medical oncology, neurology, respirology, rheumatology. social medicine
  * 0-1 block option in non-medicine rotations: psychiatry, emergency medicine.

PGY-2  
**Mandatory:**

  * Senior Medical Resident on General Medicine CTUs: 3.5 blocks (2 hospital sites)
  * Intensive Care: 1 block
  * Nephrology: 2 blocks (select residents will complete at the end of PGY1)
  * Cardiology: 2 blocks (1 block general ward Cardiology if not taken in first year, 1 block CCU to be completed during PGY2 or PGY3)
  * Community Elective in GIM: 1 block (in either PGY2 or PGY3 year)
  * Night Float: 1.5 blocks

 **Selectives:**

  * Ambulatory care clinics alone or combined with research for a total of 2 blocks in PGY2 or PGY3
  * Medicine subspecialties: endocrinology, gastroenterology, general internal medicine, geriatric medicine, clinical immunology/allergy, hematology/thrombosis, infectious diseases, medical biochemistry, medical oncology, neurology, palliative care, clinical pharmacology, respirology, rheumatology, social medicine
  * Maximum three** ** blocks pre-CARMS electives outside of Hamilton (either in PGY2 or early PGY3)

**Note:** Community GIM, outside electives or clinic/research rotations may be
completed any time during the second and third core years

PGY-3

**Mandatory:**

  * Chief Medical Resident on General Medicine CTU: 2 blocks 
  * Choice between Junior Attending or Directed Selective (flex rotation to work towards mastery or to fill in educational gaps): 1 block
  * ICU (includes time with the Critical Care Response Team): 1 block
  * CCU/Ward Cardiology: 2 blocks (unless completed in first two years of program)
  * Community GIM: 1 block (unless completed in second year)
  * Team D (hybrid ER Consult/Ward rotation): 1 block - senior consultancy roles in balancing daytime ED referrals with the care of admitted ward patients.
  * Night Float: 1 block

**Selectives**

  * Medicine subspecialties (select from rotations as listed above)
  * Ambulatory care clinics alone or combined with research for a total of 2 blocks in PGY2 or PGY3
  * Electives: maximum 3 blocks pre-CARMS in either PGY2 or PGY3 years
  * Anesthesia and PoCUS rotations available for residents on relevant career path

During the PGY3 year, each resident is appointed as Chief Medical Resident
(CMR) for 2 blocks on one of the Medicine CTUs. The primary responsibility of
the Chief resident is to organize and provide education in the form of
coaching, teaching and assessment of junior trainees on the CTU. There is an
option to assume a clinical CTU leadership role as Junior Attending for 1
block.



**Academic Curriculum:**

The formal Academic Curriculum is designed to provide sessions in the Medical
Expert role of GIM and its subspecialties as well as the intrinsic CanMEDS
roles. In general one to two hours daily are devoted to educational activities
on each of the CTUs. Requirements of every subspecialty rotation include
weekly seminars with the core Internal Medicine residents. Each hospital has
weekly Medical Grand rounds and specific subspecialty rounds.

The formal Academic Curriculum includes the following:

  * Weekly Academic Half-Day which is mandated for residents during all clinical rotations
    * Lectures from content experts during the first 14 months of training in topics derived from the Royal College Competencies 
    * Small-group Case-Based Learning commences in the fall of PGY2, continuing through PGY3
  * PGY1 autumn CanMEDS retreat
    * Series of workshops on professional competencies
  * PGY1 Evidence-Based Medicine Curriculum weekly from September-December
  * PGY1 Research Curriculum weekly from January - June
  * PGY1 Clinical Skills Curriculum January - June
  * Annual fall Evidence Based Medicine Retreat, all levels
  * Annual spring professional competency retreat: End-of life; medical ethics; medical error/patient safety, global health, etc.
  * Senior Medical Resident Retreat 
    * Workshops in key areas needed to be successful as a senior resident - teaching; feedback; time management; conflict management
  * Longitudinal Simulation curriculum, including procedure and team-based simulation and point-of-care ultrasound
  * Chief Medical Resident Retreat
    * Workshops in Chief Medical Resident role
  * Resuscitation/Simulation curriculum
    * 1-2 day workshop on procedural skills in summer of PGY1 year
    * 2-day workshops on resuscitation in June of PGY1 year
    * Point of Care Ultrasound Curriculum (PoCUS)
    * Interdisciplinary code and pre-code simulation on CTU
    * Resident as Teacher Curriculum

  * CTU-based weekly Senior Clinical Skills
  * Program-wide Journal Clubs
  * Annual Resident Research Day

**Evidence-Based Medicine** : McMaster University has acquired an
international reputation for its work in Evidence-Based Medicine, and
residents can expect to work with some of the leading practitioners in this
field. Residents learn the theoretical principles underlying EBM and how to
incorporate into their practice. Residents will find a number of resources
available to help them learn Evidence-Based Medicine. The formal curriculum
(EBM retreat, PGY1 EBM Curriculum) is taught by recognized leaders in EBM.

**Research Opportunities:  **Our program Resident Research Director and Deputy
Research Directors meet with all residents individually to discuss research
goals and facilitate research projects. Residents can work with any one of a
wide variety of internationally recognized researchers who welcome resident
participation. A Resident Research Directory is available to residents,
outlining available supervisors and projects. The department holds an annual
Resident Research Day in the spring with representation from all levels of
core and subspecialties.  Research funding is available through several
sources: preceptor support, RMA grants, and four McMaster Internal Medicine
Program grants,  including a grant in education research. Residents are
granted 1-2 blocks of research time for projects.

**Resident Involvement and Leadership in Educational Activities:**  
Residents play a pivotal role in the education of the junior housestaff. The
Program has a commitment to provide the skills needed to be an effective
teacher. Workshops are integrated throughout the program to develop the skills
appropriate at each level.

Residents at all levels have had extensive teaching in CBME and thus play a
pivotal role in the bedside assessment and evaluation of junior learners.  

Due to the unique undergraduate medical program with its emphasis on small
group learning, there are many opportunities for resident involvement in
formal undergraduate education. Many of our residents participate in
undergraduate clinical skills and have been recognized with teaching awards.
There is an opportunity to teach and/or facilitate workshops at the McMaster
annual Book to Bedside Conference. The major focus of the mandatory Chief
Medical Resident role held by each resident in the third year is the
development of teaching and administrative skills.

Residents co-chair the Academic Half Day committee and are responsible for
curriculum planning. Our program is committed to ensuring strong resident
representation on our planning committees, often in the role of co-chair with
the support of a faculty member.  Representation on the Education Committee
allows residents to provide leadership in all aspects of programming.
Mentorship and strong support are offered to residents wanting to pilot new
curricular elements. For example, the development of the social medicine
rotation and PoCUS curriculum were resident-led initiatives. Research in
Medical Education is strongly supported in the department.



**On-Call Duties:**  
All residents in the Internal Medicine Residency Program are required to take
call duty in accordance with PARO/OCATH regulations.

First year residents:

  * Junior call duty while on a CTU rotation is maximum 1:4 to as low as 1:6
  * Fly in CTU call (3-4 per block) when on most medicine subspecialty rotations.
  * Rotation-specific call occurs in the ICU.
  * For rotations in disciplines outside of the medicine subspecialties (e.g. emergency medicine), residents take call in that discipline if it exists; if not, they participate in fly-in CTU call.

Second and Third Year residents:

  * Night Float Model:  Senior CTU call is predominantly completed through the night float model in the PGY2 and PGY3 years.  These are completed in two-week blocks, where the residents works from 5 pm to 10 am every second night for a total of 7 nights.  Residents complete three 2-week blocks in PGY2 and two 2-week blocks in PGY3. Second year residents are paired with another senior resident colleague for this experience.
  * Residents will also participate in 24-hour senior CTU call during their Chief Medical Resident Block.
  * Senior-level subspecialty-specific call will be covered during nephrology, ICU, respirology, CCU and gastroenterology rotations.







GENERAL INTERNAL MEDICINE FELLOWSHIP AND ROYAL COLLEGE SUBSPECIALTY PROGRAMS
(4th and 5th years)

McMaster University offers Royal-College accredited subspecialty training
programs in:

  * Cardiology (3-year program)
  * Clinical Immunology and Allergy
  * Critical Care
  * Endocrinology
  * Gastroenterology
  * General Internal Medicine
  * Geriatric Medicine
  * Hematology
  * Infectious Diseases
  * Medical Biochemistry
  * Medical Oncology
  * Nephrology
  * Palliative Care
  * Pain Medicine
  * Respirology
  * Rheumatology

We invite you to visit the Program website for further information on PGY4
CaRMS at <https://healthsci.mcmaster.ca/medicine/education/programs> and the
CaRMS site [www.carms.ca](http://www.carms.ca)

* * *

# Training Sites

**Clinical Training:**

The hospitals in Hamilton serve a large population of up to 1.5 million
people. This is supplemented by an expanding tertiary referral area including
the Niagara Region, Brantford, Burlington, Oakville, and all neighboring
communities.  Due to this large referral base, residents are exposed to
varying levels of acuity, and a broad range of clinical presentations.

**Resources:**

The Internal Medicine Training Program at McMaster is a totally integrated
program involving five hospitals within the city. The hospitals in Hamilton
are coordinated in a series of regional programs which concentrate specialized
facilities at certain hospitals and provide mutual support for other
specialized facilities needed at all hospitals. As a result, residents receive
a variety of clinical experience drawing from a wide range of patients and
teachers. There are two hospitals which serve as sites for the Clinical
Teaching Units; residents will complete their CTU rotations in at both sites
in their three years.

**Hospital Training Sites**

There are two hospitals which serve as sites for the Clinical Teaching Units
(CTU) - St. Joseph’s Healthcare Hamilton and Hamilton General Hospital.
Residents will complete their CTU rotations at both sites over their three
years.  The CTU sites provide a vibrant experience supported by dedicated
faculty and full academic facilities.  Subspecialty, ambulatory and preceptor-
based experiences occur at St. Joseph's Healthcare, Hamilton General,
Juravinski Hospital and Cancer Centre, McMaster University Medical Centre and
St. Peter's hospital.

In addition, our Hamilton-based residents can access Intensive Care Rotations
and selectives through our Waterloo Regional Campus. For further information
about the Waterloo Regional Campus, please see their CaRMS program
description.

Hospital Addresses



1\. McMaster University Medical Centre - 1200 Main Street West, Hamilton

2\. St. Joseph's Healthcare - 50 Charlton Street East, Hamilton

3\. Hamilton General Hospital - 237 Barton Street East, Hamilton

4\. Juravinski Hospital - 700 Concession Street, Hamilton

5\. St. Peters Hospital - 88 Maplewood Avenue, Hamilton



Additional Resources

We invite you to visit the following websites for further information
regarding the McMaster Internal Medicine program

McMaster Internal Medicine Residency website:
<https://healthsci.mcmaster.ca/medicine/education/residency-programs/internal-
medicine-residency>

McMaster Internal Medicine Residency Program Video:
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rd9aMemydf0>

McMaster Postgraduate R1 CaRMS website for general information about the
McMaster postgraduate experience, the city of Hamilton and Internal Medicine
specific highlights:
<https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/>



* * *

# Additional Information

**See  CanPrepp Events Calendar for details regarding program information
sessions:** <https://canprepp.ca/>

**Program website**
<https://medicine.healthsci.mcmaster.ca/education/internal-medicine-residency-
program/>

**Postgraduate Education website**  <https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/> for additional
information



Feel free to select someone from the following IMG-stream residents, who are
happy to answer questions by email for prospective CaRMS applicants.

Mina Garas, PGY3    [mina.garas@medportal.ca](mailto:mina.garas@medportal.ca)

Nikki Cliffe, PGY3
[nikki.cliffe@medportal.ca](mailto:nikki.cliffe@medportal.ca)

Lori Israelian, PGY3
[lori.israelian@medportal.ca](mailto:lori.israelian@medportal.ca)

Nicole Chang, PGY3
[nicole.chang@medportal.ca](mailto:nicole.chang@medportal.ca)

David Flaherty, PGY2
[david.flaherty@medportal.ca](mailto:david.flaherty@medportal.ca)

Sorana Mighiu, PGY2
[sorana.mighiu@medportal.ca](mailto:sorana.mighiu@medportal.ca)





* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27105?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27105