#  Western University - Neurosurgery - London  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on November 04, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Adrianna Ranger  
Dr. Joseph Megyesi  

Address Clinical Neurological Sciences  
339 Windermere Rd.  
London, ON , Ontario, N6A 5A5  

Work  (519) 663-3696

(519) 663-3982

Websites of Interest [ LHSC Website ](http://www.lhsc.on.ca/)  
[ Information - Neurosurgery at Residency at Western
](http://www.schulich.uwo.ca/cns/education/future_students/neurosurgery_residencies/index.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: TBA

Title: Program Administrator

Email: neurosurgerycns@lhsc.on.ca

Phone: (519) 685-8500 ext. 36487

  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

All applications will be acknowledged.

Please direct questions regarding the Neurosurgery CaRMS application/interview
process to:  Deb McLaughlin, neurosurgerycns@lhsc.on.ca





* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided (by submitting one
of the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.
Failure to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.
No other forms of verification are acceptable.  

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of card must be provided and legible.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

3 letters of reference are required, preferably from physicians with whom the
student has worked or who knows the student well and can speak to their
interest and suitability in the Neurosurgery program. References due by the
CaRMS reference letter deadline.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

The candidate should provide a letter indicating the reasons for interest in
neurosurgery, preferred career development (academic, private practice, etc)
outside hobbies and interests.

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applications are reviewed by the Neurosurgery Residency CaRMS Review
Committee, alongside the Program Director. All applicant information including
CV, references, education background, and extracurricular activities are
reviewed in great detail prior to the interview selection process. Please
ensure that all of the information is accurate and submitted by the CaRMS
deadline. Items received after the deadline will not be reviewed.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 4, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews for residency in Neurosurgery at
Western will take place virtually on Tuesday, February 4, 2025. A virtual
"Neurosurgery Resident Meet & Greet" will be held for interview candidates
only on Monday, February 3, 2025 at 5:30 PM EST.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews are scheduled on Tuesday,
February 4, 2025. Interview day will begin with a "tour" of the program, where
candidates will be invited to attend the Clinical Neurological Sciences Grand
Rounds (virtually through Zoom videoconferencing). Attendance to Grand Rounds
is not mandatory. For the virtual interview, all candidates are interviewed by
3 groups: **two  groups** will be of neurosurgeons and nurse practioners
(including the Program Director) and **one group** will include several of our
current residency trainees, which gives the candidate the opportunity to
discuss features of the program from the trainees' perspective.  Candidates
will be in each virtual interview room with each interview group for 15
minutes, and will be prompted when the interview time is up for each group.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

The Neurosurgery Program at Western is designed to enable residents to achieve
all of the relevant clinical and non-clinical skills related to the practice
of adult neurosurgery, including the mastery of all CanMEDS competencies
relevant to the practice of neurosurgery, and to prepare residents to
successfully sit the Royal College Exam in Neurosurgery.

Our mission, based on the collaboration and dedication of our experts and
partners, is to provide an outstanding training experience in neurological
disorders, deliver world class care to patients and their families, and
produce world class neuroscience research.  

## Selection process goals

From the list of candidates, individuals who have a proven interest in
neurosurgery as determined from their applications are preferred. Interest may
be shown through: demonstrated strong academic performance; reference letters
from physicians with whom the candidate has had clinical experiences; personal
attestation shown in the form of an essay, discussing candidate's interest in
neurosurgery (same as personal letter); completed elective in neurosurgery.

Currently, the neurosurgery program accepts applicants through the Canadian
Resident matching Service (CaRMS) and one IMG applicant through their
sponsoring agency.

## File review process

Review team composition : All applications are reviewed by the Program
Director. Due to time constraints, we are not able to offer all candidates
interviews. Candidates will meet with 3 interview panels: One comprised of 4-5
neurosurgeons and nurse practitioner(s), one comprised of the Program Director
and 3-4 faculty members, and one comprised of 4-5 residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
We receive 20-40 applications per year.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Evidence of appropriate medical training.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Evidence of interest in Neurosurgery.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of a well-rounded individual.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of successful leadership.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Ensuring no “red flags” such as failures, academic sanctions, etc.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Ability to express reason for interest in Neurosurgery and display excellent command of the English language.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Evidence from referees that this individual would be a good fit for a Neurosurgical program.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Evidence of an interest in academic pursuits.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Ensuring no “red flags” such as failures, academic sanctions, etc.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence when answering questions of abilities to work effectively in a team setting.   
Collegiality |  Evaluated based on behaviour witnessed on the interview day.   
Communication skills |  Ability to clearly answer questions and to effectively convey interest in the program.   
Health advocacy |  Ability to advocate for patient's interests and demonstrates commitment to patients/community.   
Interest in the discipline |  As expressed verbally and by electives completed.   
Interest in the program |  We inquire as to what draws applicants to apply to our program.   
Leadership skills |  Evidence to take initiative in clinical setting and candidate demonstrates leadership skills.   
Professionalism |  Evidence of ability to maintain a professional demeanor at all times, including conflicts.   
Scholarly activities |  Evidence of interest in research, education or pursuit of scholarship.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights



The Neurosurgery Residency Program at Western University prides itself on the
strengths of training highly competent, technically skilled neurosurgeons.
This is accomplished through our high case volume and independence-oriented
training. Particular clinical strengths of the program include vascular and
endovascular therapy as well as functional, stereotactic and epilepsy surgery.



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 6 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Neurosurgery is that specialty which concerns itself with the study,
diagnosis, and surgical treatment of abnormalities and diseases of the central
and peripheral nervous system.

Residency Training Program Start Date - All programs at Western commence on
July 1, 2025. **  Residents are strongly encouraged to attend a one-day
Orientation in London, Ontario.  Date TBD.**



Description |  Duration |  Sites in which this training may be taken  
---|---|---  
Neurosurgery           Neurology Neuroradiology Neuropathology Trauma Surgery Orthopedic Spine Surgery ICU/Critical Care Medicine Neuro ICU Consult Medicine Otalarygology Plastic Surgery Radiosurgery |  47 blocks           3 blocks 1 block 3 blocks 1 block 1 block 3 blocks 1 block 1 block 1 block 1 block 1 block |  University and Victoria Hospitals (At least 6 blocks must be at VH), and Windsor Regional Hospital. UH: Adult neurosurgery VH: Pediatric neurosurgery, neurotrauma WRH: Community neurosurgery   University and Victoria Hospitals University and Victoria Hospitals University Hospital Victoria Hospital Victoria Hospital University and Victoria Hospitals University and Victoria Hospitals University and Victoria Hospitals University and St. Joseph's/Victoria Hospital St. Joseph's Health Care Toronto General Hospital    
  


### c)   Elective Content of Training



Description |  Duration |  Sites in which this training may be taken  
---|---|---  
Elective / Research |  13 blocks |  N/A  
  


* * *

# Training Sites

**Resources**

London Health Sciences Centre - Victoria Hospital & University Hospital

Children's Hospital of Western Ontario

Robarts Research Institute

Windsor Regional Hospital

Toronto General Hospital



The Division of Neurosurgery at the Western University consists of twelve
consultant neurosurgeons, with clinical and academic interests encompassing
the full scope of neurosurgery. The clinical case load is one of the largest
in Canada (in excess of 1600 operative cases per year). Areas of particular
expertise include neurovascular and endovascular surgery, epilepsy and
functional neurosurgery, neuro-oncology and complex spinal disorders.

The Neurosurgical training program takes place at the London Health Sciences
Centre, consisting of two campuses. Adult Neurosurgery occurs at the
University Campus which is attached to the University of Western Ontario
Medical School and the Robarts Research Institute. Pediatric Neurosurgery
takes place at the Children's Hospital of Western Ontario which is part of the
Victoria Campus. The regional trauma centre is also part of the Victoria
Campus.

* * *

# Additional Information

Prospective applicants wishing to be in touch with a resident in the Program
may contact:

PGY6 Burnett Johnston, rburnett.Johnston@lhsc.on.ca

PGY2 Priscilla Chan, priscilla.chan@lhsc.on.ca

PGY2 Alexander Mastrolonardo, alexander.mastrolonardo@lhsc.on.ca





* * *

# FAQ

1\. Do you review late applications?

No, we do not consider late applications, nor late submissions of files.

2\. Will interviews be virtual? Where will they take place?

All CaRMS interviews across Canada will be virtual for the foreseeable future.
Our program uses Western University approved Zoom Video Communications for
interviews.

3\. May I participate in an observership prior to applying or interviewing?

Yes, London Health Sciences Centre has approved observership opportunities
since the COVID-19 pandemic. If you are interested in an observership
opportunity, please contact our Program Administrator Jumai Alaka
(jumai.alaka@lhsc.on.ca)

4\. How many resident positions do you take each year?

We accept two CaRMS applicants and one IMG applicant each year into our
program.



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26722?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26722