#  Western University - Orthopedic Surgery - London  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 27, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Ryan Degen  

Address Orthopaedic Surgery  
Victoria Hospital  
800 Commissioners Rd.E.,  
London, Ontario, N6A 5W9  

Work  (519) 685.8500 Ext. 53110

Work  (519) 685.8500 ext. 55353

Websites of Interest [ UWO Division of Orthopaedic Surgery
](https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/orthopaedicsurgery/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Parham Rasoulinejad

Title: Program Director

Email: parham.rasoulinejad@lhsc.on.ca

Phone: (519) 685.8500 Ext. 53110

(519) 685.8500 ext. 55353

  

Name: Sheryl Jones

Title: Program Administrator

Email: sheryl.jones@lhsc.on.ca

Phone: (519) 685.8500 ext. 55353

  
  

* * *

# Return of Service

 **This program has a return of service obligation attached to it.   Please
review the provincial criteria for more information: **
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Any CaRMS candidates who are interested in joining an information session for
program-related questions are required to sign-up by emailing Sheryl Jones at
sheryl.jones@lhsc.on.ca.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided (by submitting one
of the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.
Failure to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.
No other forms of verification are acceptable.  

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of card must be provided and legible.

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

Applicants must be able to communicate in the language of instruction and
patient care of the matching school.

Must provide proof of English language proficiency through **ONE** of the
following:

## **Submit one of the following documents to verify your language
proficiency:**

• IELTS  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  

**Language assessment document accepted:**  TOEFL-iBT, TOEFL-iBT Home Edition
accepted

**Document validity (not expired) by** : Must be valid up to the assignment of
applications and documents deadline

**Minimum score:**  93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section

** **

**Language assessment document accepted:** IELTS Academic

**Document validity (not expired) by:**  Must be valid up to the assignment of
applications and documents deadline

**Minimum score:** 7 in each component



**Language assessment document accepted:** Occupational English Test (OET)
-Medicine

**Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to the assignment of
applications and documents deadline

**Minimum score:** Minimum grade of B in each component



**Language assessment document accepted:** Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to the assignment of
applications and documents deadline

**Minimum score:** Minimum score of 9 in each component

## **Letter of language proficiency**

Candidates can submit a printout from the  [World Directory of Medical
Schools](http://www.wdoms.org/) which clearly states that the language of
instruction is English.

If the World Directory of Medical Schools directory does not indicate clearly
that the language of instruction is solely English, a letter of language
proficiency is a letter from your Dean attesting that your medical school
program of instruction was completed solely in English.

Examinations

Required

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

Reference documents

Required

Orthopedic Surgery structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

The applicant is required to submit a word statement as they see it, stating
career goals and objectives, including interests and hobbies, and describe why
they have chosen orthopaedic surgery.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Custom Résumé / CV

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Conditionally required

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All candidate applications will be reviewed. Please note that the file
reviewers do not disclose information regarding their selection criteria of
applicant files. Please do not contact the administrator for details regarding
your application status.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 31, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: All candidates will be contacted via EMAIL
and advised if an interview has been offered or not offered.  Interviews will
be conducted in a virtual platform.  The set interview date is Friday January
31, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The interview panels will be
conducted by members of the Selection Committee including faculty and resident
representatives.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

  * Candidates must demonstrate a strong academic performance to be considered for an interview;
  * Interview selection is based on the applicant's Curriculum Vitae, and other CaRMS application documents;
  * Candidates interested in basic science and clinical research will find opportunities to pursue these interests in the program and are encouraged to apply.



## Program goals

The objective of the Western University Orthopaedic Surgery Residency Training
Program is to train outstanding clinicians who can provide high level
orthopaedic care to patients throughout Canada. This is accomplished by
following and maintaining the educational standards that are outlined for
orthopaedic training programs by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons
of Canada. Our goals are to offer a thorough clinical experience that includes
all subspecialty areas of orthopaedics, with an educational curriculum that is
supported by academic faculty that are recognized leaders in the Canadian and
International orthopaedic communities. We also strive to provide research
opportunities for our residents in order to foster a life long interest in
academic pursuits and learning regardless of their eventual practice locale.
In addition, the program provides mentorship to aid our residents in attaining
their career goals after residency.

## Selection process goals

Selection process goals are as follows:

1.  Select candidates with an interest in orthopaedic surgery as a lifetime career.

2.  Select candidates with an aptitude for orthopaedics.

3.  Select candidates who are professional and are team players.

4.  Select candidates who are compassionate and strive for exemplary patient care.

5.  Select candidates who have and exemplary work ethic and a sense of responsibility.

6.  Select candidates who are committed to life-long learning.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team consists of interview panels each
with approximately 3 reviewers that include one or two orthopaedic faculty
members and one or two residents from the program. Candidates will be randomly
assigned to the panels for their interviews.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Evidence of work experience, volunteer experience and work-life balance.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We will not consider elective choice as a screening measure for interviews. We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We review this file component although it is not evaluated.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of coping mechanisms and work-life balance.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of leadership roles, duration and accomplishments.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evidence of rotational performance and evaluation rotational failures.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Evidence of personal, academic, interpersonal concerns.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  All documents/files submitted will be reviewed by the committee.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Evidence of publications and/or involvement in scholarly work.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Assess courses taken and evaluation failures.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:







## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  This will be evaluated using standardized case-based scenario.   
Collegiality |  This will be evaluated using standardized case-based scenario.   
Communication skills |  Evaluated throughout interview by observing the candidate answering questions (verbal & nonverbal).   
Health advocacy |  This will be evaluated using standardized case-based scenario.   
Interest in the discipline |  This will be evaluated by asking the rationale for their choice of orthopaedics as a lifetime career.   
Interest in the program |  This will be evaluated by asking the rationale for choosing our program for residency.   
Leadership skills |  This will be evaluated using standardized case-based scenario.   
Professionalism |  This will be evaluated using standardized case-based scenario.   
Scholarly activities |  Indirectly evaluated by questions surrounding research/scholarly experiences from CV.   
Other interview component(s) |  Each interview candidate will be scheduled for two interviews on the same day (up to but not exceed 20 minutes per interview).   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  Pre-determined flags on standardized scenario questions  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Quick Facts

  * Orthopaedic Surgery at Western University transitioned into a Competency by Design curriculum in July 2020.
  * There are opportunities for inter-provincial and international electives while training in our program.
  * There are mandatory community orthopaedic surgery rotations.
  * The current ratio of residents to faculty is 28 residents to 30 clinical faculty, and 6 research faculty.
  * Plentiful operative exposure with variable in-patient loads depending on hospital site.
  * Residents are provided with access to electronic medical and educational resources.
  * Research is mandatory in Year 2 to Year 5 of the training program.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

All residency programs at Western University commence on July 1st.  An
Orientation Day will be held in advance of your start date in London, Ontario.









Curriculum  
  

The residency training program in Orthopaedic Surgery at Western University
offers training in all subspecialty areas of orthopaedics. Orthopaedic care is
organized into Clinical Teaching Units (CTU's) in Arthroplasty, Trauma, Sports
Medicine, Hand and Upper Limb Surgery, Paediatric Orthopaedic Surgery, and
Spine Surgery. The Foot and Ankle CTU is included as a component of the Sports
Medicine and Trauma CTUs  Experience in Orthopaedic MSK Oncology occurs in
conjunction with the Sarcoma Unit at Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto. The
residents rotate through each of these subspecialty disciplines. The residents
will complete six months for most subspecialty disciplines. Large clinical
volumes ensure that there is optimum hands-on experience for the residents
during their training.

Resident progress is monitored with bi-annual interviews by the Program
Director.

In addition, discussion of the In-Training Evaluation Reports with the
supervising physician is carried out in the middle and at the end of each
rotation.

Core surgical training occurs during the first and second year of residency.
During the core training years, residents complete rotations in Orthopaedic
Surgery, Emergency Medicine/Ortho Hybrid, Ambulatory General Internal
Medicine, General Surgery Trauma, Vascular Surgery, Critical Care (CCTC),
Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation, and Community Orthopaedic Surgery.

During the first two years of training, approximately one-half the time is
spent on an Orthopaedic service.

The final three years of training are exclusively devoted to Orthopaedic
Surgery. The academic year is divided into 13 four-week rotation blocks. A
typical residency schedule is described below:

**Year 1:**   All Year 1's start in Orthopaedic Surgery.

Orthopaedic Surgery - 10 Blocks (3 blocks in block 1-3, 3 blocks in blocks
9-13, 2 blocks x 2)

ER Ortho Hybrid - 1 block

Traumatology - 1 block

Ambulatory General Internal Medicine - 1 block



**Year 2:**

Orthopaedic Surgery - 7 blocks (2 x 2 block rotations, plus 1 x 3 block
rotation scheduled for blocks 4-9).

Community Orthopaedic Surgery - 2 blocks (Stratford, Owen Sound, Chatham)

Critical Care Trauma Centre - 2 blocks

Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation - 1 block

Vascular Surgery - 1 block

  
  

**Year 3 to Year 5:**  
  

The residency program is run on a Clinical Teaching Unit basis with residents
assigned to specific teaching units with Rotation Specific Objectives for the
junior and senior resident rotations. There are also 2 Blocks of Electives and
1 Block of Orthopaedic Oncology.



  
  

**Research:**  
  

Research opportunities are presented at the beginning of each academic year.
Residents may select from these options or pursue study of their own design.
Each resident is expected to complete one clinical or basic science project to
be presented at the annual Residents' Research Day event which is held in
early October.

In the 3rd year of training, each resident completes a three-block Research
rotation. This may be basic or clinical, and is at the discretion of the
trainee with the advice and guidance of the Research Committee. Residents who
wish to pursue a more in-depth research focus have the opportunity to complete
a Masters of Surgery program in the School of Graduate Studies.

  
  

**Seminars and Journal Clubs:**  
  

Daily seminars in all subspecialty areas are a key component of our training
program. Orthopaedic Surgery City-Wide Grand Rounds occur on Wednesday
mornings from 7:15 - 8:15 a.m., and are followed by the Academic Half-Day
Resident Teaching session which includes an Ortho Program Orientation and
Ortho Boot Camp held in July, Surgical Anatomy, Basic Science Seminars,
Surgical Simulation, Clinical Teaching Unit seminars, and academic sessions
with invited guest lecturers.

Resident Journal Club events are hosted once monthly typically in the
evenings, and are organized between the assigned resident (Year 3 to Year 5)
and their supervising consultant(s). Article papers are selected for
discussion amongst the group. Participation includes all of the residents, the
supervising consultant(s), and the Clinical Teaching Unit Fellows.



  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

**London Health Sciences Centre - University Hospital - London, Ontario:
**This is the hospital site for rotations in Adult Hip and Knee Reconstruction
(Arthroplasty), and Sports Medicine (Fowler Kennedy Sport Medicine Clinic).

**London Health Sciences Centre - Victoria Hospital - London, Ontario:**  This
is the hospital site for rotations in Orthopaedic Paediatrics, Orthopaedic
Trauma/Foot and Ankle, Spine Surgery, Critical Care Trauma Centre, Ambulatory
General Internal Medicine, and Vascular Surgery.

**Roth McFarlane Hand and Upper Limb Centre, St. Joseph's Health Care -
London, ON:  **This is the hospital site for Hand and Upper Limb rotation.

**Mount Sinai Hospital - Toronto, Ontario:  **This is the hospital site for
Orthopaedic Musculoskeletal Oncology for Tumor rotations.

**Parkwood Hospital - London, ON:  **This is the hospital site for Physical
Medicine and Rehabilitation rotation.

* * *

# Additional Information

All information contained is subject to change until such time as the rank
order lists are filed.  Please ensure you review information on a regular
basis.

Only the International Medical Graduate that has been successfully matched to
our program, will be required to sign a Return of Service Contract with the
Ministry of Health and Long Term Care of the Province of Ontario, in the
specialty (including Family Medicine) to which they have been matched.







* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26848?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26848