#  Queen’s University - Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation - Kingston

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on February 19, 2025

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Jessica Trier  

Address Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation  
Providence Care Hospital  
752 King St. West  
Kingston, Ontario, K7L 4X3  

Work  (613) 544-4900 x53293

Websites of Interest [ Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
](http://pmr.queensu.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Kaitlyn Cats

Title: Program Administrator

Email: k.cats@queensu.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation National Implementation of Competence by
Design (CBD)

In July 2020, Competence by Design (CBD), the Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons’ implementation of Competency-Based Medical Education (CBME), was
implemented in all Canadian Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation programs.
Since July 1, 2017, Queen’s University has adopted a CBME model in all
specialty programs, including PM&R.

Residency programs are broken down into four stages, and each stage has a
series of entrustable professional activities (EPAs) based on required
competencies. These EPAs create more targeted learning outcomes and involve
more frequent coaching feedback and documentation of observations within the
clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving feedback
on the skills they need.

Further information on CBD can be found on the Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Canada website at: <https://www.royalcollege.ca/>

COVID-19 vaccination requirements:

Please refer to the 'Restrictions' section of the [Ontario eligibility
criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/) for messaging regarding COVID-19 vaccination requirements.

**EDIIA Institutional Statement:**

The goal of resident selection is to identify trainees likely to succeed both
in training and, once out in practice, in meeting the health care needs of
patients and Canadian society.  We know that having a physician workforce that
reflects the demographics of the patients that they serve improves health care
outcomes.  There are many populations within Canada under-represented in
medicine (UIM) with a paucity of health care practitioners who are Black,
Indigenous, Persons of Colour, 2SLGBTQ+, from lower socioeconomic backgrounds
and/or with disabilities, and other under-represented in medicine (UIM)
groups. Diversity within training programs has also been shown to improve
training environments.  Queen’s University PGME is strongly committed to
diversity and inclusion within its community for these reasons as well as
being part of the solution to address historic and contemporary inequities.

**Equity and diversity**

We welcome diversity among our trainees and seek to foster an environment that
is welcoming to all, regardless of gender identity, race, religion, or sexual
orientation.

We are committed to advancing equitable and inclusive practices.  Please refer
to the [PGME website](https://meds.queensu.ca/academics/postgraduate/faculty-
staff/applicant-selection) for additional information / resources including
[QHS EDIIA Initiatives](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi) and [EDIIA
statements](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi/accessibility-
statements) (Indigenous Land Acknowledgement, Anti-Discrimination Statement,
Inclusion Statement, and Statement on Social Accountability)

**Gaps in Training, Remediation, or Professionalism issues**

Please address any gaps in training, remediation, or professionalism issues in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count.

* * *

# Return of Service

If you have a ROS agreement in another province please ensure you aware of the
commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Program start date is July 1, 2025.  We will be accepting 1 resident to start
July 1, 2025.

Please note that due to the volume of applications our program receives we are
not able to provide individual feedback to applicants who are not successful
in the match.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Reference documents

Required

Applicant support form  Number requested: 3

Narrative letters of reference are no longer accepted for this program. Your
referee must complete the required structured reference form found here:

  * [Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Structured Reference Letter](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/physical-medicine-and-rehab-structured-reference-letter.pdf)

  * [Lettre de recommandation structuree en medecine physique et readaptation](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/lettre-de-recommandation-structurée-en-médecine-physique-et-réadaptation.pdf)

Translations are required to be from certified translators/translation
companies using a certified translator.

Three structured reference forms are required, preferably at least one from a
Physiatrist. All should be from physicians who you have worked with
clinically. Referees should be able to attest to interest and proficiency in
our specialty as well as comment on interpersonal skills. See Selection
Criteria for more details.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

Personal letter outlining why you are applying to Physiatry. Please include
personal strengths, weaknesses, career goals, and reason for interest in the
field and in the Queen's program. Please do not exceed the maximum of 1000
word count for personal letters.

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Documents that are not in English must be accompanied by a notarized
translation. Students applying in the last year of medical school will need to
submit their most recent marks/transcripts, and will need to provide proof of
their MD to CPSO prior to the start of residency training.

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Virtual interviews for the 2025 Match will
be scheduled on January 22 and 23, 2025**.**  
  
For those offered an interview, you will be contacted with your interview date
and time. Please be aware there are _**limited** _interview spots on each
date.  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Candidates felt to be acceptable,
based on initial assessment of their applications, will be invited for virtual
interviews.  
  
Interviews will be conducted by panel members consisting of an attending
teaching staff and current PM&R residents with a structured format.  
  
Time will be included for candidates to ask questions about the program. All
candidates are invited to attend a virtual social event (date will be
determined and sent to candidates in advance). Details will follow for those
selected for an interview.  
  
  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We welcome diversity among our trainees, and seek to foster an environment
that is welcoming to all, regardless of gender identity, race, religion, or
sexual orientation. Interested candidates would have the opportunity to
connect with someone from the Office of EDIIA Initiatives at Queen's Health
Sciences (https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi) before applying, for
additional information.

Solid academic record which demonstrates special proficiency in those subjects
related to the specialty.

Candidates should have a proven interest in Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation.

Referees should be able to attest to interest and proficiency in the specialty
as well as comment on exemplary interpersonal skills.

Candidates with an interest and proven experience in research, both in basic
science and clinical research, accomplishments, academic or otherwise, during
the period of medical school.

Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.

We are looking for applicants who embrace change and have a growth mindset,
are passionate, resilient, and receptive to feedback.



## Program goals

The program goal for residents, upon completion of the PM&R program at Queen's
University, is to be a competent specialist in PM&R (Physiatrist) capable of
assuming a consultant's role in the specialty. The resident must acquire a
working knowledge of the specialty, including its foundations in the basic
medical sciences and research. Residents must demonstrate the requisite
knowledge, skills, and attitudes for effective patient-centred care to a
diverse population. In all aspects of specialist practice, the resident must
be able to address issues of gender, sexual orientation, age, culture,
ethnicity and ethics in a professional manner. (Royal College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Canada, 2011).

## Selection process goals

The resident must acquire a working knowledge of the specialty, including its
foundations in the basic medical sciences and research. Residents must
demonstrate the requisite knowledge, skills, and attitudes for effective
patient-centred care to a diverse population. In all aspects of specialist
practice, the resident must be able to address issues of gender, sexual
orientation, age, culture, ethnicity and ethics in a professional manner.
Other considerations are:

\- a solid academic standing

\- an interest in medical education and clinical medicine

\- excellent communication skills

\- demonstrates leadership skills

\- research activities



## File review process

Review team composition :  
1 Program Director  
3 Faculty Members  

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Provides a general overview of the candidate and their accomplishments .   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Electives in PM&R; are not required but are strongly encouraged.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Well rounded, contribution to the community, demonstrated ability to maintain work-life balance.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Demonstrated leadership skills in academic and non-academic settings.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic performance and personal contributions during medical school. Clerkship evaluations are required and will be reviewed.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Genuine interest in PM&R; and the Queen's Program. A note to First Nation, Inuit and/or Métis applicants: At the present time, CaRMS does not have a self-identification process for First Nation, Inuit and/or Métis applicants. The Queen's Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation is committed to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission’s Calls to Action on Health. For this reason, we encourage First Nation, Inuit and/or Métis applicants to our residency program to self-identify in their personal letter. For those who self-identify information and resources will be provided for local supports such as Four Direction Indigenous Student Centre if matched to our program. Any applicants that choose not to self-identify will not be disadvantaged. Our goal is to mitigate systemic biases by recognizing and valuing the unique contributions of those who self-identify as indigenous. If you choose to self-identify, please indicate this clearly at the top of your personal letter. This first sentence (self-identification) does not count toward your word count for the personal letter. If you self-identify as indigenous at the top of your personal letter, you have the option to include an additional 250 words to address the following prompt: Describe how your identity has impacted your vision for your career in medicine. Maximum 1000 word count (plus 250 for self-identification).   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Professionalism, interpersonal skills, strong communication skills, advocacy, leadership and teamwork.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Demonstrated interest, knowledge and experience in research during medical school.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance during medical school.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Able to work effectively with other health care professionals to provide safe, high-quality, patient care   
Collegiality |  Ability to work with others in a respectful manner   
Communication skills |  We use the interview as an opportunity to assess a candidate's verbal and non-verbal communication skills   
Health advocacy |  Understanding of health advocacy   
Interest in the discipline |  Applied knowledge and understanding of the discipline   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrate interest in the PM&R; program at Queen’s University   
Leadership skills |  Evidence of leadership from the applicant's previous experiences   
Professionalism |  Demonstrate professional behaviour during the interview and pre-interview process   
Scholarly activities |  Interest and ability in performing scholarly work   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Quick Facts

Our program offers junior rehabilitation rotations in the Foundations of
Discipline stage, and longer senior rehabilitation rotations in the Core of
Discipline stage. Although not required by the Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Canada, this spiral curriculum allows graduated progression of
responsibilities, as well as spaced repetition to consolidate rehabilitation
knowledge.

The program includes a particular focus on Clinical EMG training that meets
the six-month training requirement for EMG certification on completion of the
program.

Longitudinal academic coaching is provided throughout residency training.

Funding is available to attend relevant national and international
conferences.

Collegial group of faculty and residents.

New accessible hospital on Lake Ontario.

Residents are provided the opportunity for at least a one-month community
rehabilitation rotation in a small to medium sized community outside the
academic medical centre.  

Residents have first on call responsibilities Monday through Thursday each
week, with the exception to statutory holidays. Hospitalist physicians are
first on call on Friday, Saturday and Sunday and on statutory holidays.





* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Queen’s University, Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation program is a
fully accredited program, which meets the training requirements of the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. The program is structured with a
mix of block and longitudinal components.

The Queens PM&R stages of training and rotations are as follows:

**Transition to discipline+** **2 blocks** |  **Foundations of Discipline** **19  blocks** |  **Core of Discipline** **34  blocks** |  **Transition to practice** **10 blocks**  
---|---|---|---  
Rehab Basics (2)         |  Internal Medicine - (4) (2 of Cardio, ID, Resp + 2 CTU) Geriatrics (1) Surgery (2) (2 of plastics, urology, vasc, nsx) Selective (2)  Acquired Brain Injury (1) Spinal Cord Injury (1) Stroke (1) Musculoskeletal (2) Neurology (2) Rheumatology (1) Ortho (2) |  Acquired Brain Injury (3) Spinal Cord Injury (3) Stroke (3) Musculoskeletal (4) EMG (6) Pediatric Rehab-Ottawa (1) Pediatric Rehab-Kingston (2) Cardiac and/or Respiratory Rehab (1) Prosthetics and Orthotics-Ottawa (1) Consolidation (4) Research (3) Electives (3) |  Junior attending Electives Further EMG training   Rec: Community Based on career plan   Other options: Research Extra training  
  |  **Longitudinal Rotations  ** _Neuromuscular_ _Prosthetics and Orthotics_  
  
Program Overview

The Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Residency (PM&R) postgraduate
training program is five years in length. Residents complete their first two
blocks in Transition to Discipline, learning “Rehab Basics.” Foundations of
Discipline (FD) is primarily off-service, but residents will have rotations in
core PM&R areas as well. In Core of Discipline (CD), residents have the
opportunity to revisit these core rotations as a senior resident. Going
through the rotations twice allows for graduated responsibility and
independence, and consolidation of knowledge from other off-service rotations
such as Rheumatology, Neurology and Orthopedic Surgery.

During PM&R rotations, residents will participate in longitudinal
rehabilitation clinics, such as Neuromuscular Rehabilitation and Prosthetics
and Orthotics (P&O). Residents complete 1 block of Pediatric Rehabilitation
and 1 block of P&O in Ottawa. Residents complete 6 blocks of EMG, which
affords the opportunity to meet the CSCN (EMG) examination requirements.

The Transition to Practice (TP) stage allows residents to focus on career
planning and preparation for independent practice. Residents in the TP stage
are given opportunities to function as a junior attending, with enhanced
responsibilities equivalent to those of a consultant in PM&R.

*Rotation order may vary due to scheduling conflicts and rotation availability.

Funding is provided on an annual basis for educational leave to attend
conferences and courses.  





* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

Providence Care Hospital has a 60 bed rehabilitation unit in the
rehabilitation/geriatric/complex care/mental health hospital setting. There
are outpatient clinics, an EMG lab and a full complement of allied health care
professionals. This new state of the art health care facility is the site of
all inpatient and outpatient rehabilitation services since April 2017. This
new site has significantly enhanced the clinical, education and research
experiences of residents.

Kingston Health Sciences Centre-SITE: Hotel Dieu Hospital, Kingston–medicine,
surgery, neurology and pediatric ambulatory clinics.

Kingston Health Sciences Centre-SITE: Kingston General Hospital–acute-care
inpatient services.

University of Ottawa (Affiliation Agreements) for 1 block Pediatric
Rehabilitation rotation at the Children’s Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO)
and 1 block of Prosthetics and Orthotics.

Community Rehabilitation rotation– with the option of other sites at multiple
locations across Ontario.



All residents are provided with a Queen's email address, internet access and
dedicated office space with a computer. On-site library facilities include a
small departmental library containing print and medical resources and an
excellent hospital library with knowledgeable staff. The Health Sciences
Library on the Queen's University campus has additional resources.

* * *

# Additional Information

As a smaller centre, here you are your name, not a student number.  We treat
each other with respect, dignity and work well together.  We are here to help
you grow into the Physiatrist you've dreamed of!

Kingston has many advantages with regards to quality of life, cost of living
and ease of movement within the Health Sciences Centre.

Kingston is known for its many recreational opportunities including some of
the best fresh water sailing in the world, wilderness parks, an active
triathlon community, rowing, exceptional restaurants, an active theatre and
music scene, to name a few. For those with a family, it is an ideal
environment to raise children with many excellent schools. Past residents have
found time to enjoy the richness of life outside of medicine that Kingston has
to offer while completing their clinical training.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27415?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27415