#  Dalhousie University - Obstetrics and Gynecology - Halifax  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on August 29, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 5

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Leanne McCarthy  

Address Obstetrics & Gynaecology  
IWK Health Centre  
5850/5980 University Avenue, P.O. Box 9700  
Halifax , Nova Scotia, B3K 6R8  

Work  (902) 470-6675

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Dalhousie Obstetrics & Gynaecology
](http://obstetrics.medicine.dal.ca/)  
[ Discover Halifax ](https://discoverhalifaxns.com/)  
[ NS Tourism ](https://www.novascotia.com/trip-ideas/top-25)  
[ IWK Health ](https://iwkhealth.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Leanne McCarthy

Title: Program Director

Phone: (902) 470-6675

  

Name: Mary Boudreau

Title: Education Coordinator

Email: mary.boudreau@dal.ca

Phone: (902) 470-6675

  

* * *

# Important Information

To obtain a postgraduate training license after the conclusion of the match,
Canadian Medical Graduates (CMG's) must have registered and challenged the
Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Exam Part 1 (MCCQE 1) by July 1, 2025.
Those unsuccessful in the exam are subject to the decision of the regulatory
authority regarding licensure.

Our program values the importance of equity, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) as
a goal in the selection process.

To help inform and advance EDI in our selection process we are pleased to
offer the option to submit the voluntary CaRMS Self Identification
Questionnaire. Additionally, there is an additional verification process for
Indigenous membership or citizenship. Please see sections below for further
information.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

We believe that the best residents are those who have been able to explore the
breadth of the medical profession through suitable electives while enrolled in
medical school. We do not preferentially rank applicants who have only pursued
electives in one discipline or sub-discipline.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

####  

You must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident _**at the time of
application**_.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three reference letters are required. A letter written by a senior resident
would be accepted.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Required - used for memory aid

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  500

Maximum :  750

  

A narrative (a minimum of 500 to a maximum of 750 words) is required
outlining:

  * your path to medicine
  * aptitude for self-directed learning and organization
  * demonstrated resiliency and ability to handle stress 
  * what draws you to our program and our training location
  * interests outside of medicine

Obstetrics & Gynaecology can be a challenging residency and a stressful
specialty. Tell us about your biggest professional failure or challenge, what
you learned from it, and how this will help you overcome setbacks as an Ob
Gyn.

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Conditionally required

Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry

If you have self-identified as Indigenous, we require additional information.

Applicants shall provide a certified copy of one or more of the following
documents with their application:

  1. A Certificate of Indian Status issued by the Government of Canada, or a First Nation recognized by the Government of Canada;
  2. Written confirmation of membership or citizenship with a federally recognized band or tribal authority in in the United States or Canada;
  3. Written confirmation of Inuit enrolment or a copy of an Inuit enrolment/beneficiary card issued by a modern Inuit treaty organization or government as follows:

3.1 Inuvialuit Regional Corporation;

3.2 Nunavut Tunngavik Incorporated;

3.3 Makivik Corporation;

Nunatsiavut Government;

  4. Written confirmation of Métis citizenship/membership or a copy of a Métis citizenship/membership card provided by a Métis government as follows:

4.1 Métis National Council governing members:

Métis Nation – Saskatchewan;

Métis Nation of Alberta;

Métis Nation British Columbia;

Métis Nation of Ontario;

  * Manitoba Métis Federation;
  * Métis Settlements of Alberta.

Applicants who do not supply any of the documents listed above shall supply a
250-word statement with applicable supporting documentation that demonstrates
how they meet the citizenship or membership criteria established by the
recognized Indigenous nation to which they claim membership or citizenship.

The above information is only made available to Dalhousie PGME, Program
Director, and Program manager of applicable training programs and will only be
used for purposes of the CaRMS matching process.

Please see below for certification of documents.

# Certification of Documents

Documents may be certified by one of the following professionals:

  1. Accountant
  2. Chief of a First Nations Band
  3. Commissioner for Oaths
  4. Employee of a Service Canada Centre acting in an official capacity
  5. Funeral Director
  6. Justice of the Peace
  7. Lawyer, Magistrate, or Notary
  8. Manager of a Financial Institution
  9. Regulated Medical or Health Practitioner
  10. Member of Parliament or their staff
  11. Member of a Provincial/Territorial Legislature or their staff
  12. Minister of Religion
  13. Municipal Clerk
  14. Official of a Federal/Provincial/Indigenous Government Department or one of its agencies
  15. Official of an Embassy, Consulate, or High Commission
  16. Police Officer
  17. Professional Engineer
  18. Social Worker
  19. Teacher
  20. University Professor or Staff

The person certifying the document(s) must:

  1. Compare the original to the copy
  2. State their official position or title
  3. Print their name
  4. Sign their name
  5. Write the date they certified the document
  6. Provide their telephone number
  7. Write the following statement: This is a true copy of the original document, which has not been altered in any way

Optional - will be reviewed

Self-identification questionnaire

We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. Any responses received will be used only to support our
program’s and Dalhousie’s equity, diversity, and inclusion goals.

Additionally, we invite applicable candidates to also complete Dalhousie’s
verification process for Indigenous identity, membership, or citizenship.

Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire or to complete Dalhousie’s verification process, but for those
that do feel comfortable doing so the information received would only be used
to advantage those who would contribute to the diversity of our community.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

The CaRMS selection committee reviews each of the applications in detail.
After careful consideration, the committee will determine which applicants
will be selected to interview.  

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held on January 20, 21,
& 22, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All applications will be reviewed by
the interview committee and invitations for interviews will be communicated to
candidates via e-mail.  Interviews will be carried out in an MMI format. Each
candidate will have three interviews as well as an additional interview with
the Program Director. Candidates are also encouraged to attend the chat room
for a Q&A session with the Program Administrator and residents.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

\- An acceptable academic record demonstrating proficiency in those subjects
related to obstetrics and gynecology is required

\- Interest in, and knowledge of, the specialty

\- Personal letter detailing interest in Obstetrics & Gynaecology.

\- Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, along with maturity and
sensitivity are critical for applicants to this specialty



## Program goals

The Dalhousie University Obstetrics & Gynaecology Residency Program provides a
learning curriculum that is academic, evidence based, and encompasses all
CanMED's roles. Extensive clinical experience allows residents to confidently
navigate their career path whether it is as a generalist or in a subspecialty.

Residents in our program are expected to demonstrate clinical and academic
excellence, exceptional interpersonal and teamwork skills, and research
experience.  Our Program believes in a positive work-life balance and
encourages extra-curricular activities to support personal wellness.

## Selection process goals

The Dalhousie University Obstetrics & Gynaecology Residency Program applicants
are chosen based on the following characteristics (in no particular order):

  * Aptitude for independent learning and organization
  * Interest in, and knowledge of, the specialty and the Dalhousie training program
  * Academic potential
  * Aptitude for Obs Gyn - technical and non-technical
  * Ability to handle stress
  * Excellent communication skills with patients, colleagues, and healthcare team members
  * Leadership potential
  * Professionalism
  * Scholarly interests (research, education, QA, etc)
  * Participation in extracurricular activities

Dalhousie is committed to fostering a collegial culture grounded in diversity
and inclusiveness. The university encourages applications from Indigenous
persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women, persons of a
minority sexual orientation and/or gender identity, and all candidates who
would contribute to the diversity of our community.

Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire or to complete the verification process for Indigenous identity,
membership, or citizenship, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so
the information received would only be used to advantage those who would
contribute to the diversity of our community.

Any self identification questionnaires received and the results of the
verification process will be reviewed as part of our file review process, and
used as an aid for file reviewers in selecting a diverse group of candidates
for interviews. Information received may also be used by the program to adjust
final rankings, at the discretion of the selection committee, to address
issues of program priority and diversity.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team is composed of the Program Director,
Program Administrator, three faculty, and four residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Employment history, extra curricular activities.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Demonstrated interest and experience in Obstetrics & Gynaecology; clinical performance.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering (medical and non-medical) and mentoring; evidence of interests outside of medicine.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Holding office in a student government, club, or organization.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstrated interpersonal skills.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest and suitability to discipline, program and location.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interaction with colleagues and patients. Interest in discipline.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in participating in future research projects; Demonstration of some exposure to research.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high-quality patient care through working in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Behavior, attitude, ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak and write in English   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrated understanding of health advocacy in the field Obstetricians and Gynecologists   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated interest and ability in the specialty; evidence of compassion & resilience   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest in program, setting, and serving Atlantic Canada   
Leadership skills |  Ability to initiate programs, lead organizations or groups, and make an impact   
Professionalism |  Communication and interaction with PA, faculty, and residents prior to and during interview process   
Scholarly activities |  Not evaluated as part of interview   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Quick Facts:

\- PGY1's participate in a Surgical Foundations Boot Camp during the first
four weeks of residency along with all surgical disciplines.  Residents also
concurrently participate in two blocks of Obstetrics & Gynaecology Boot Camp
which includes introductory sessions on general O&G topics as well as
research, global health, fetal health surveillance, etc. and participation in
O&G clinics, call, O.R., etc.

\- PGY 1 residents participate in the Foundations of Surgery Curriculum.  PGY1
residents are required to complete the ATLS course during the Surgical
Bootcamp block.  PGY2 residents are required to write and pass the Surgical
Foundations exam (fall of PGY2).  

\- The ratio of residents to faculty is 1:1

\- Residents have an opportunity to pursue interprovincial and international
electives

\- Annual Resident Retreat (weekend)

\- Well equipped resident lounge as well as hospital wide wireless & Up to
Date access

\- Skills Centre for Health Sciences (http://skillscentre.ca)

\- Simulation Centre (on-site)

\- One month research course in PGY1 & protected research time throughout
residency.

\- Active Global Health Program with opportunities for international
electives.

\- Active Departmental Wellness Program

\- Resident travel fund.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**CBD:**

The Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada has embarked upon an
initiative to introduce competency based medical education (CBME) in Canadian
postgraduate specialty training and in professional practice in Canada. This
initiative called Competence by Design (CBD), aims to enhance patient care by
aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving patient needs
and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education process.

CBD uses time as a framework rather than the basis for progression.  It is not
anticipated that the duration of training will change for the majority of
trainees. Residency programs are broken down into stages, and each stage has a
series of milestones based on required competencies.  These milestone create
more targeted learning outcomes and involve more frequent, formative
assessments within the clinical workplace, to ensure residents are developing
and receiving feedback on the skills they need.  Obstetrics & Gynecology
Programs in Canada implemented the CBD curriculum in July, 2019.  

Programs implementing CBD undergo the same accreditation processes as
traditional programs.  All CBD programs (and traditional programs) will
continue to lead to Royal College certification.  Certification for trainees
in both CBD and traditional programs will include the completion of the Royal
College Examination; however, residents in CBD programs will also be assessed
against program milestones throughout their training.  Within a CBD program,
all milestones and the Royal College Examination, must be successfully
completed to achieve certification.

For more information, please refer to the [CBD section of the Royal College
Website](https://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e).

Please note: 1 block equals 4 weeks.

**Transition to Discipline  (TTD) **(4 blocks): Residents attend Surgical
Foundations Boot Camp along with all surgical disciplines.  Residents also
concurrently participate in two blocks of Obstetrics & Gynaecology Boot Camp
which includes introductory sessions on general O&G topics as well as
research, global health, fetal health surveillance, etc.  Residents
participate in clinics, OR’s, and call shifts during these blocks.  

The Surgical Foundations Program** ** is a one year program in the first year
of residency that runs parallel to TTD and FOD. It is a mandatory requirement
of surgical residency programs and for Royal College Certification.

**Foundations of Discipline (FOD) (22 blocks): FOD spans** the second half of
PGY1 and all of PGY2.  First year rotations include general surgery (2
blocks); community obs gyn (2 blocks-Saint John, NB); research (1 block);
emergency (1 block); internal medicine (1 block); obs gyn (2 blocks); ICU (1
block); and gyne oncology (1 block).  Second year rotations consist of core
Obstetrics & Gynaecology.  Residents spend 2-3 blocks in Saint John, New
Brunswick and the remainder in Halifax.

**Core of Discipline (COD) (33 blocks):   COD **runs from PGY3 through to the
first half of PGY5. There are 3 block (minimum) rotations in each of the
subspecialties including reproductive endocrinology and infertility, maternal
fetal medicine, gynecological oncology, urogynecology as well as electives
(national and international) and community selectives (within the Atlantic
provinces).  Six to seven blocks are spent as a Chief Resident - usually in
the 4th or 5th year of training in gynecology and obstetrics. At this stage of
training residents learn to manage more complex cases while managing their
respective teams.  On Gynaecology, senior residents have their own resident
run clinics and OR’s.

**Transition to Practice (TTP) (6 blocks):**   In the final 6 months,
residents continue to expand on senior roles with increased clinical
independence and mentoring of junior learners.

All residents participate in a scholarly research or quality assurance project
relevant to Obstetrics & Gynaecology and present their research at Department
Research Day.  

**Academic ½ Day**  
PGY 2-5 residents have protected Academic 1/2 Day on Friday afternoons where
they are excused from clinical work from 1-5 pm. Sessions are done by an
assigned faculty and cover topics on a two year rotation.  PGY2-5 residents
attend the Surgical Skills labs approximately once per month with cadaver labs
3-4 times per year.  

PGY 1 residents attend the Foundations of Surgery teaching sessions on
Wednesday mornings. Residents are required to complete the Surgical
Foundations course and pass the examination.  The examination takes place in
the Fall of PGY2.





**Rounds **  
Obstetrics & Gynaecology Grand Rounds are held weekly.  Obs Gyn teaching
rounds are held weekly.  Maternal-Fetal Medicine Rounds are held twice weekly.
Perinatal Pathology/Rh Rounds are held weekly. Pathology Rounds are held
monthly.

**Research **  
Each trainee is required to complete one research project during the five
years of training. Staff supervisors will be organized for the research
projects through a dedicated Research Director. There is an annual Resident
Research Day. Senior residents present final projects and PGY1 residents
present work in progress.  Protected time or elective time is available for
research projects. PGY1 residents will complete a four week research skills
course.  PGY2-5 residents have protected days to dedicate to their research
project.  Residents have biostatistics / epidemiology support for research
projects.  Residents receive special funding for presenting at national
meetings. Additional funding is provided to residents to attend conferences
throughout their training.



* * *

# Training Sites

\- IWK Health Centre (Halifax, Nova Scotia)

\- QEII Health Science Centre (Halifax, Nova Scotia) - Victoria General Site
and Halifax Infirmary Site

Saint John Regional Hospital (Saint John, New Brunswick)

During the more senior years, community selectives or electives can be
arranged in a number of the secondary centres in Nova Scotia, New Brunswick,
Prince Edward Island or elsewhere in Canada.



_NOTE: All residency programs are required to have 10% of their residency
training outside of Halifax Regional Municipality as stipulated in the most
recent Academic Funding Plan set out by the Department of Health and Wellness.
Please be aware that if matched to Halifax, as part of your training you may
be expected to complete rotations outside central zone but within the maritime
provinces._

* * *

# Additional Information

Structured and unstructured sessions at the  "**Atlantic Health Science Skills
Centre** " give the residents the ability to train in a virtual, readily
accessible environment.  The skills lab is available to residents at all times
and several academic 1/2 day sessions are dedicated to organized sessions in
the lab.  [http://skillscentre.ca](http://skillscentre.ca/).  24 hr. access.

**Journal Club:**  Monthly catered Journal Club from September to June
provides a forum for critical review of journal articles, presentation of
articles reflecting important developments in the practice of Obstetrics &
Gynaecology, and the discussion of the applicability and relevance of
statistical methods. Journal Club is attended by residents, faculty, research
staff & basic science staff.

**Visiting Professors:** The Department hosts numerous visiting professors
throughout the academic year. Residents are released from service for teaching
sessions with visiting faculty.

**Why Halifax?**

While it is the bustling hub of Atlantic Canada, Halifax is somehow able to
retain a warm, small town feel. With gorgeous scenery, amazing food, and some
of the friendliest people you'll ever meet, it's no wonder that both locals
and visitors can't get enough of this coastal city

**-  https://discoverhalifaxns.com/**

\- Halifax - gateway to Atlantic Canada, has a prominent port situated on the
world's second largest natural harbour.  Stroll the nearly 4 kilometre
boardwalk which spans from the Canadian Museum of Immigration at Pier 21 to
Casino Nova Scotia. Along the way explore museums, browse boutique shops, dine
at waterfront restaurants, take a harbour tour, grab a ferry to Dartmouth,
watch boats of all sizes come and go, take in a festival, and end the day on a
patio watching the sun set over the harbour.

\- Outdoor activities - sailing, paddling, hiking, camping, diving, swimming,
biking, golfing, skiing

\- Halifax has plenty of activities to suit every interest, from seasonal
festivals and events to delicious wine and culinary experiences!

\- Abundant seafood!!!





* * *

# FAQ

**_A_**** _re there sufficient elective opportunities during training to
explore your special interests?_**

There are 3 blocks dedicated to elective time in fourth year.  Electives may
be pursued anywhere within Canada or internationally.  They may also be
completed outside of the specialty if they pertain to a particular interest or
career goal.  Residents complete 3 blocks of selectives where they can go to
the community or work on acquiring skills relevant to their career path.



**_A_**** _re residents in your program required to complete the Surgical
Foundations course?_**

Our residents are required to participate in the Surgical Foundations Program
and pass the Royal College exam written in early PGY2. Residents are excused
from their clinical duties for one half-day per week on Wednesday mornings
during PGY1 for surgical foundations seminars.



**_A_**** _re there active and/or required research projects in your residency
program?_**

Residents are required to complete and present one research project during
their training.  We have a very rich perinatal research department and there
are an abundance of active projects across all Obs/Gyn disciplines. PGY1
residents complete a 1-block research course to refresh critical appraisal
skills and facilitate an early start on a project.



**_Tell me about the surgical skills lab and simulation centre?_**

We have a state-of-the-art surgical skills lab where wet and dry sessions are
conducted to help enhance residents’ surgical skills. We also have a fully
equipped simulation centre on-site including high fidelity and ultrasound
scan-trainer.  Our strong simulation curriculum provides us with additional
opportunities to practice the management of obstetrical emergencies. Both
facilities are open for self-directed learning 24/7.



**_What is overall resident satisfaction like in your program?_**

Overall, we are a very happy and social group of residents.  Recent graduates
from our program have felt they received very well rounded training that
prepared them for practice as an independent staff.

**_ _**

**_  W_**** _hy train with Dalhousie Obs/Gyn?_**

  * We are the only high-risk obstetrical centre in the Maritimes, providing exposure to unique and challenging presentations
  * We have very few fellows, allowing residents to maximize OR time
  * Strong simulation program, including an ultrasound scan-trainer
  * Staff-led cadaver and laparoscopic skills labs throughout the year to enhance surgical skill development
  * Well-established resident wellness program with department-sponsored events every month
  * Close and supportive group of residents and staff who are committed to creating a positive learning environment



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26886?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26886