#  Toronto Metropolitan University - Family Medicine - Peel & Surrounding
Communities  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 27, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 24

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Jobin Varughese  

Address Postgraduate Medical Education - Family Medicine  
350 Victoria Street  
Toronto, Ontario, M5B 2K3  

Websites of Interest [ VIDEO [1.5 min]: TMU SoM Creating Healthy Change for
Communities Across Canada ](https://youtu.be/OzVtdOMD4s8?si=yDM9vM_g5eqTRn67)  
[ TMU Postgraduate Medical Education ](http://www.torontomu.ca/school-of-
medicine/programs)  
[ TMU School of Medicine Website ](http://www.torontomu.ca/school-of-medicine)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Joint Ontario FM IMG Admissions Process

Title: General Inquiries

Email: info@ontariofmp.ca

  

General Information: TMU Family Medicine Program Contact:

Name: Justin van Lieshout

Title: Program Administrator

Email: pgme.fm@torontomu.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

### **Joint Ontario FM IMG Admissions Process**

The Family Medicine Program at Toronto Metropolitan University's (TMU) School
of Medicine participates in the Joint Ontario Family Medicine IMG Admissions
Process. Although the file review and interview process is standardized across
all 7 Ontario Family Medicine Programs, each program submits their own final
rank order list.

**Accreditation Status: Accredited**

The Toronto Metropolitan University School of Medicine's Family Medicine
Residency Program received accreditation from the College of Family Physicians
of Canada in October of 2024.

### **Additional Documentation Requested by TMU SoM FM Program**

In addition to the standardized application requirements, the following
documentation is requested by the TMU Family Medicine Program:

  * **Regional Connection Attestation (required)**  
Applicants to the TMU School of Medicine Family Medicine Program are required
to submit an additional document: the [TMU Regional Connection
Form](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/TMU-regional-connection-attestation-2025.pdf)
to detail any connections that they may have to Peel and surrounding
communities. The information provided in the attestation will not be
considered in the Joint Ontario IMG Admissions file review and interview
processes, but it will be considered by TMU in our program's selection/ranking
process.  
  

  * **CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (optional)**  
Applicants to the TMU School of Medicine Family Medicine Program are asked to
optionally complete the CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ). This
information will be used to support our goal of selecting a diverse group of
candidates. Your completed CSIQ will only be made available to TMU and will
not be shared with the other Ontario family medicine programs. More
information around how your information will be accessed and protected is
provided in the document section.

### **Family Medicine Professional Choices Assessment (FMProC)**

  * All applicants will be required to write FMProC for their application to be deemed complete. More details and information about registration for FMProC can be found here: [www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com)    
  

  * _**Please note** **registration will open on September 11th, 2024 for the 1 st round of testing.  
  
**_

  * When you receive your [FMProC](https://fmproc.com/) result letter, please remember to upload this document into your CaRMS account to ensure your application package is complete if it is not already there.

### **Eligibility Criteria**

  * In addition to meeting the CaRMS R-1 Match [Basic Eligibility Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-criteria/#1686684285912-c058262f-ef92), all applicants must meet the [Ontario Provincial Eligibility Criteria ](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-criteria/ontario/#1594838411955-6c1aae10-d2bb)in order to be considered. Applicants are responsible for reviewing this criteria in full before applying.  
  

  * International Medical Graduates (IMG) must be graduates of an acceptable medical school on the [World Directory of Medical Schools ](https://www.wdoms.org/)list.  
  

  * All International Medical Graduates (IMG) need to have their documents verified through [physiciansapply.ca](https://physiciansapply.ca/).   
  

  * Documents that are not in English must be translated into English. Students applying in the last year of medical school will need to submit their most recent marks/transcripts and will need to provide proof of their MD to CPSO prior to the start of residency training. 

### **Pre-residency Orientation Programs**

  * All International Medical Graduates (IMG) accepted to all residency programs will be required to complete either the Pre-Residency Program (PRP) or the Pre-Residency Program for Family Medicine (PRPFM) prior to entering into a residency program. Matched International Medical Graduates (IMG) will be expected to attend these programs in Toronto, several weeks in advance of the start of their residency program. In some cases, this may result in a delay of the start date of the residency. Additional information on the PRP and PRP FM programs can be found at the following link: [Touchstone Institute](http://www.touchstoneinstitute.ca/). 

### **Assessment Verification Period**

  * All International Medical Graduates (IMG) accepted to residency training programs will be required to undergo an Assessment Verification Period (AVP). This assessment period is normally 12 weeks in length and is required by the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario to obtain an educational license to enter a residency program. [CPSO – International Medical Graduates (IMGs)](https://www.cpso.on.ca/Physicians/Registration/International-Medical-Graduates).   
  

  * International Medical Graduates (IMG)  that have failed an AVP and are reapplying through CaRMS are ineligible to apply for training in the same specialty in Ontario but may apply to a different specialty in the first and/or second iteration. International Medical Graduates (IMG) who have withdrawn from a program prior to completion of an AVP must declare so upon application.   
  

  * Please note that while every effort is made to accommodate a July 1st start date, there may be some applicants matched in the 2nd iteration who cannot be accommodated for a July 1st start. This information will be communicated to the matched applicants directly from the matched program. 



* * *

# Return of Service

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided by submitting one of
the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline. Failure
to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed. No other
forms of verification are acceptable.

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada   
MUST be accompanied by a Canadian government issued photo ID, or  
  

  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or  
  

  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence   
MUST be accompanied by a Canadian government issued photo ID, or  
  

  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card   
Copies of both sides of card must be provided and legible  
  

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools  
• IELTS  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

# Language proficiency

## Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

Language assessment document accepted: TOEFL-iBT

  * Document validity (not expired) by: Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * Minimum score: 93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section

Language assessment document accepted: IELTS Academic

  * Document validity (not expired) by: Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * Minimum score: 7 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

Language assessment document accepted: Occupational English Test (OET)
-Medicine

  * Document validity (not expired) by:  Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * Minimum score: Minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in the same sitting

Language assessment document accepted: Canadian English Language Proficiency
Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * Document validity (not expired) by:  Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * Minimum score: Minimum score of 9 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

Examinations

Required

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

A passing score of NAC from exam sessions after March 2013 is required to
apply. MCCQE part II passing score can be used to apply instead of the NAC
passing score.  
  
NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report (for those whose latest
attempt at the NAC was prior to September 2020 or in 2021 or later)

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

A passing score of MCCQE1 is required to apply.

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).



Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

  * Exactly 3 reference letters using the Family Medicine Structured Reference Letter (SRL) submitted through CaRMS will be the only form of reference letters accepted.   
  

  * **SRLs from 2023 CaRMS cycle and on will be accepted.**      
  

  * The same reference letters can be used for all Ontario Family Medicine Programs that you apply to.  
  

  * A Family Medicine Structured Reference Letter (SRL) is used by all Family Medicine Programs across the country that require a reference letter. This tool will allow for more consistency in the selection process for Family Medicine admissions. The SRL was developed by a subgroup of Family Medicine Residency Programs, which has been vetted by all Family Medicine programs in Canada.  
  

  * Three SRLs are required. If possible, one or more SRLs from a Family Physician is helpful, but not required. Please DO NOT provide more than three SRLs, only the first three SRLs will be considered.  
  

  * Should your referee submit a traditional reference letter, it will not be reviewed and your application may be deemed incomplete.

_*Please note that the Family Medicine SRL is provided to your referee through
CaRMS upon submitting a reference request. After submitting the reference
request, candidates do not have to send anything else to their referees._

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

**There are 3 options to add your medical school transcript to your CaRMS
account:**

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;  
  

  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or  
  

  3. Transfer your transcript from your [physiciansapply.ca](physiciansapply.ca) account (Log into CaRMS Online and follow the instructions in the physiciansapply.ca section).

**Transcript Addendum**

Please include a supplementary statement titled “Transcript Addendum” at the
beginning of your Personal Letter explaining any poor academic performance or
failure, any gaps in medical school training or if you did not graduate with
your cohort. The transcript addendum will not count towards your word limit
for your Personal Letter. Failing to submit a transcript addendum, if the
criteria apply, will result in the application not being considered.

Medical Student Performance Record

**There are two options for you to add[this](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153143-What-is-an-MSPR-) document to your account:**

  1. Ask your medical school to upload their document using the [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-).  
  

  2. Upload the document themselves in the Document Tracking section of their CaRMS Online account. 

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English, you
are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Describe how your background and experiences have led to an interest and
commitment to a career in family medicine, and your understanding of the role
of Family Physicians in the Canadian health care system. Letters exceeding the
500 words limit will not be reviewed.

  * If you are including a transcript addendum, it will not count towards your word limit for your Personal Letter.
  * The same personal letter can be used for all Ontario Family Medicine Programs that you apply to.

Custom Résumé / CV

**Please provide the following details in your CV:**

  1. Group your clinical experience in chronological order (list your clinical experience as they relate to time)  
  

  2. Indicate your level of responsibility (observer, student, resident, other trainee status, independent practice, etc. This should be specified for each clinical experience listed in the CaRMS CV).

Regional Connection Attestation

**Download Form:  [TMU Regional Connection
Attestation](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/TMU-regional-connection-
attestation-2025.pdf)**

We understand that a number of applicants to our residency programs will have
a connection to the region, and that many applicants will also have an
interest in serving culturally diverse and medically underserved communities.  
  
Building upon our strong foundation of social accountability, we have
implemented a Regional Connection Attestation to help identify candidates who
may have a connection to the region.  
  
**All applicants to the TMU School of Medicine Family Medicine Program are
asked to complete this attestation. The information provided in the
attestation will be considered in our selection process and candidates will be
awarded a Regional Connection Score.**

Optional - will be reviewed

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Self-identification questionnaire

Equity, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) are fundamental values at TMU and the
School of Medicine. As the first medical school in Canada founded and
intentionally built upon the foundations of social accountability, EDI,
decolonization and Reconciliation. These principles have been intentionally
infused throughout all facets of the TMU School of Medicine, including
admissions.  
  
We recognize that many groups face barriers not only in applying and being
admitted to medical school, but also in matching into residency programs. With
this in mind, and in keeping with TMU’s mission, vision and values,**  our
PGME Office and residency programs are asking applicants to optionally
complete the CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire and to assign the
document with their application to our program.**  
  
**This information will be used to support our goal of selecting a diverse
group of candidates**. Your information will also be used to produce aggregate
data. Following the CaRMS Match, anonymized aggregate data from the CSIQ will
be used to evaluate the effectiveness of our selection process in removing
barriers and promoting inclusion, and to help us set EDI goals for future
matches.

All members of the TMU PGME Office, program faculty and staff, file reviewers,
interviewers, and program selection committees undergo mandatory unconscious
bias and anti-racism training specifically geared to admissions and selection
and must also sign a Confidentiality and Conflict of Interest Agreement.
Additionally, to help ensure an equitable and accessible admissions and
selection process, we are committed to providing reasonable accommodations for
candidates who may require them in the interview process.

**Information on how this information will be accessed and protected by TMU**
:  
  
Your information will remain confidential, but not anonymous. Only a few
authorized individuals in PGME, including the Program Director and Program
Administrator, will have access to individual responses from individual
candidates. All personal information that is collected will be used, stored,
and destroyed in accordance with [TMU's Notice of
Collection](https://www.torontomu.ca/registrar/privacy/).  
  
Your self-identification information will be stored and maintained by the
individuals mentioned from the Postgraduate Medical Education Office and
destroyed in alignment with [TMU's records retention
schedule](https://www.torontomu.ca/gcbs/what-we-do/records/records-retention/)
and the [Ontario Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act
(FIPPA)](https://www.torontomu.ca/gcbs/what-we-do/access-privacy/). No
information that identifies an individual and their diversity self-
identification data will be released or shared, except with the aforementioned
who are required to have confidential access to the information to fulfill
their responsibilities, or with the consent of the person from whom the
information is collected.  
  
If you have any questions about the collection and use of this information,
please contact [pgme@torontomu.ca](mailto:pgme@torontomu.ca.).



* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applicants who apply to any of the seven Ontario Family Medicine Programs
(McMaster University, NOSM University, University of Ottawa, Queen's
University, University of Toronto, Toronto Metropolitan University, Western
University) will be assessed by a joint panel comprised of representatives
from each of the seven Ontario Family Medicine Programs.  
  
This panel will assess all candidates' applications and grant interviews to
approximately 600-700 applicants, regardless of the number of Ontario Family
Medicine Programs candidates apply to. The panel will provide the final
evaluation results of all candidates who were interviewed to each of the
individual Ontario Family Medicine Programs that they applied to. Each Ontario
Family Medicine Program will then generate its own final rank list.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 17, 2025
  * January 24, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Some applicants will be invited for virtual
interviews to be held on January 17, 2025 and January 24, 2025.  Registration
times will be provided to those invited for an interview closer to the virtual
interview date.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: **Will I receive an interview
offer?**  
  

  * The seven Ontario Family Medicine Programs usually receive over 1300 applications and can only offer interviews to a maximum of approximately 600-700 applicants.  
  

  * [Family Medicine Professional Choices Assessment (FMProC)](https://fmproc.com/), NAC and MCCQE1 are required and candidates must submit results of FMProC, NAC and MCCQE1. Approximately 600-700 candidates with top scores in the NAC and MCCQE1 will be invited for interviews.  
  

  * Applicants who are not interviewed will not be ranked by the programs.

**If I receive an interview offer, do I have to travel to all seven Ontario
Family Medicine Programs for interviews?**  
  

  * As per the AFMC Resident Matching Committee (ARMC) decision, all 2025 R-1 match interviews will occur in a virtual format - you will not be required to travel to the Program with which your virtual interview will be held.  
  

  * The seven Ontario Family Medicine Programs will conduct a standardized virtual interview in English. Should you be invited for a virtual interview, you will be assigned to one of the seven Ontario Family Medicine Programs for the virtual interview regardless of which school(s) you have applied to or intend to apply to.   
  

  * Each Ontario Family Medicine Program to which you applied will use your joint virtual interview score to decide on your ranking independently.

* * *

# Selection Criteria

**I have received an interview offer based on my eligibility and exam scores.
Are there other preferential selection criteria that the program directors
consider in my ranking?  **

The seven Ontario Family Medicine Programs prefer applicants who have recent
full-time clinical experience (clinical clerkship during medical school or
residency or independent practice). Observership is NOT considered clinical
experience. Participation in a residency training program in Family Medicine
or in clinical practice in family medicine or its equivalent will be favoured
in our ranking.  
  

## Program goals

  * TMU's School of Medicine is committed to improving the health and well-being of individuals, families, and communities, focusing on the primary care needs of diverse and underserved populations in Peel and surrounding communities. Our mission, in alignment with the Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) office, is to provide community-engaged education, scholarship, and service. We aim to educate residents within safe and supportive environments, fostering the development of compassionate, respectful, and forward-thinking family physicians who will provide outstanding holistic care and lead in health system transformation.  
  

  * We are dedicated to upholding our commitments to Equity, Diversity, Inclusion, Accessibility, Anti-Racism & Reconciliation, Decolonization, and Indigenous Resurgence (EDIAA-RDIR).  
  

  * Our program goals include selecting residents who demonstrate clinical excellence, community engagement, leadership potential, and a commitment to lifelong learning and health equity. We seek residents who are capable of becoming exceptional physicians in their specialties and who share our dedication to improving healthcare access and outcomes in the communities we serve.  
  

  * To align with our selection process goals, we emphasize the importance of recruiting a diverse population of residents reflecting the demographics of Peel and surrounding communities and are committed to advancing the principles of equity, diversity and inclusion, decolonization and Reconciliation. Our process incorporates comprehensive evaluations, including academic performance, clinical evaluations, leadership experiences, and community involvement, ensuring that our residents not only meet our high standards of clinical competence but also embody the values and mission of the TMU School of Medicine.  
  

  * The TMU School of Medicine Family Medicine (FM) residency program seeks to train family physicians who are patient-centered, professional and dedicated to improving the health and well-being of individuals, families, and communities.  
  

  * The FM residency program fosters a supportive learning environment that emphasizes evidence-based medicine, continuous improvement, lifelong learning and physician wellness.  
  

  * We aim to equip our residents with the necessary knowledge and skills to excel in clinical practice, leadership, and community service, while upholding a high standard of professionalism.

The goal of the Family Medicine Residency Program is to graduate Family
Medicine Residents who:

  * **Excel Clinically:**  
Residents will strive towards achieving excellence in clinical practice,
committing to evidence-informed medicine, continuous quality improvement,
clinical innovation and primary-care research.  
  

  * **Provide Culturally Responsive Care:**  
Residents will learn to deliver compassionate medical care tailored to the
diverse needs of their patients, incorporating a holistic approach to the
practice of Family Medicine  
  

  * **Serve their Community** :   
Residents will develop a deep commitment to the health of residents of Peel
and surrounding communities, developing the skills necessary to address their
specific healthcare needs.  
  

  * ****Collaborate Effectively:  
******Residents will learn from and with interprofessional team members to
deliver high-quality, culturally competent, patient-centred care.  
  
**

## Selection process goals

The TMU School of Medicine Postgraduate Medical Education Unit and the Family
Medicine Program are committed to selecting a diverse population of residents
who will be exceptional family physicians, and who are committed to Equity,
Diversity, Inclusion, Accessibility, Anti-Racism & Reconciliation,
Decolonization, and Indigenous Resurgence (EDIAA-RDIR). In addition, the
program is committed to selecting residents with:

  * A keen passion for family medicine and primary care/an interest in improving healthcare access and outcomes in Peel and surrounding communities  
  
  * A connection to Peel and surrounding communities and/or an interest in practicing in culturally diverse communities  
  

  * An interest in building the TMU School of Medicine and being an integral part of the success of a brand-new residency program  
  

  * A broad range of personal, professional, and educational experiences that reflect a passion and commitment to community engagement, advocacy, and leadership, especially in the context of marginalized communities  
  

## File review process

Review team composition : All files are jointly screened for eligibility and
then further assessed by a member of the joint selection team.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 601 +  
The seven Ontario Family Medicine Programs usually receive around 1300
applications yearly.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Group all your clinical experience in chronological order (list your clinical experience as they relate to time) Indicate your level of responsibility (observer, student, resident, other trainee status, independent practice, etc. should be specified for each clinical experience listed in the CaRMS C.V.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We recognize that applicant opportunities to arrange and complete electives has been challenging and would like to reassure you that a lack of elective activity this year will not negatively affect your application to our program. Ideally, we are looking for and rewarding applicants who have completed a broad range of electives including our specialty if possible.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Family Medicine Professional Choices Assessment (FMProC), NAC and MCCQE1 are required and candidates must submit results of FMProC, NAC and MCCQE1. Approximately 600-700 candidates with top scores in the NAC and MCCQE1 will be invited for interviews.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of variety of extra-curricular activities. Leadership positions within the extra-curricular activities are valued.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership positions within academic and extracurricular activities are valued.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Candidates must demonstrate a strong academic performance.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Personal letters must be well written, address the questions posed in the CaRMS program description and demonstrate an understanding of the discipline of Family Medicine. The same personal letter can be used for applications to all Ontario Family Medicine Programs. Please include a supplementary statement titled “Transcript Addendum” at the beginning of your Personal Letter explaining any poor academic performance or failure, any gaps in medical school training or if you did not graduate with your cohort. The transcript addendum will not count towards your word limit for your Personal Letter. Failing to submit a transcript addendum, if the criteria apply, will result in the application not being considered.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Exactly 3 reference letters using the Family Medicine Structured Reference Letter SRL submitted through CaRMS will be the only form of reference letters accepted. SRLs from 2023 CaRMS cycle and on will be accepted. The same 3 reference letters can be used for applications to all Ontario Family Medicine Programs.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research, publications and scholarly activity will be considered in the context of extra-curricular activities.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Candidates must demonstrate a strong academic performance.   
Other file component(s) |  Although not considered in the file review or interview process, the TMU Family Medicine Program also considers the Regional Connection Attestation and CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire in our selection process. Please refer to the documents section for more details.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We recognize that there can be challenges in
candidates’ opportunities to arrange preferred electives during medical school
training and would like to reassure you that this will not negatively affect
your application to our program. Ideally, we are looking for and rewarding
applicants who have completed a broad range of electives relevant to primary
care or family medicine with or without electives in family medicine.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Demonstrate a good understanding of the importance of collaboration in FM   
Collegiality |  Demonstrate a good understanding of the importance of collegiality in FM   
Communication skills |  Candidates must possess strong communication skills   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrate a good understanding of the importance of health advocacy in FM   
Interest in the discipline |  It is expected that candidates demonstrate a strong interest in FM   
Interest in the program |  It is expected that candidates demonstrate a strong interest in program   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrate a good understanding of the importance of leadership skills in FM   
Professionalism |  Demonstrate a high degree of professionalism & understand its importance in FM   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**The TMU School of Medicine’s Family Medicine residency program strongly
emphasizes addressing primary care and community needs. This focus is integral
to its design, aiming to equip residents with the skills necessary to serve as
comprehensive family physicians. A strength of the program is its focus on
Equity, Diversity, Inclusion, Accessibility, Anti-Racism & Reconciliation,
Decolonization, and Indigenous Resurgence (EDIAA-RDIR). The Family Medicine
residency program strongly commits to inclusivity and focuses on providing
educational experiences rooted in culturally humble and sensitive
competencies. Family Medicine residents will be paired with mentors based on
their career and personal interests.**

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Family Medicine Rotations (Family Medicine and Family Medicine - Urgent
Care)**

These rotations form the cornerstone of the residency, offering a
comprehensive experience in Family Medicine. Residents will care for patients
across their lifespans, from pediatrics to geriatrics, addressing various
medical needs including preventive care, chronic disease management, mental
health, and minor procedures.

Notably, six out of the eight blocks will be conducted within the same
community teaching clinic, providing continuity of care and allowing residents
to build long-term relationships with their patients. This consistency in the
clinical environment is designed to enhance the development of skills
necessary for delivering patient-centred care. The remaining two blocks will
be completed in an urgent care or walk-in clinic, where residents will gain
experience managing a high volume of low-acuity conditions in a fast-paced
environment.

**Pediatrics**

The Pediatrics rotation offers residents a broad spectrum of experiences, from
emergency consultations to routine outpatient care. This rotation is crucial
for developing the skills necessary to care for children from infancy through
adolescence, emphasizing the evaluation, treatment, and management of common
pediatric illnesses and well-child care.

**General Internal Medicine**

This rotation is structured to emulate the responsibilities of a hospitalist,
allowing residents to manage complex cases in both inpatient and outpatient
settings. The experience gained in diagnosing and treating acute, chronic, and
end-of-life conditions will equip residents with a comprehensive skill set in
internal medicine.

**Obstetrics and Gynecology**

During this rotation, residents will be exposed to a wide range of obstetric
and gynecological conditions in inpatient and outpatient settings. The
rotation encompasses pre-pregnancy planning, prenatal care, labour and
delivery, postpartum care, and gynecological health, preparing residents to
function effectively as generalists in women's health.

**Mental Health and Addiction Medicine**

This rotation is focused on developing the skills required to address mental
health needs and substance use disorders. Residents will work in psychiatric
settings and collaborate with mental health professionals, gaining experience
in patient-centred communication, diagnosis, and management of mental health
and addiction issues commonly encountered in primary care.

**Emergency Medicine**

The Emergency Medicine rotation trains residents in triage, rapid assessment,
and management of acute presentations of diseases and trauma. Residents will
develop skills in prioritizing and managing multiple patients simultaneously,
emphasizing timely intervention and appropriate referral to specialists.

**Care of the Elderly/Palliative Care**

In this mixed-block rotation, residents will gain experience managing chronic
medical issues in the elderly and providing palliative care. The rotation
includes clinical placements in various settings, including clinics, long-term
care, and home visits, emphasizing the importance of continuity of care and
developing long-term patient relationships.

**Rural Medicine**

This rotation allows residents to train in rural and remote communities,
offering exposure to the broad scope of family medicine practice in these
communities. The experience gained in managing patient care in resource-
limited environments will be invaluable. Work is underway to expand this
rotation to work with and learn from Indigenous communities and embed the
Indigenous ways of knowing, being, and doing into the training.

**Electives**

Elective rotations are designed to allow residents to gain additional clinical
or academic exposure in areas of personal interest, further enhancing their
ability to function as family physicians in diverse settings. These rotations
complement the core Family Medicine experience and can be completed within or
outside affiliated teaching hospitals and clinics.

**Selectives: Outpatient Surgical Skills (OSS)**

The OSS selective allows residents to refine procedural skills in a range of
clinical settings within the affiliated teaching hospitals and clinics.
Experiences may include minor surgical procedures, gynecological procedures,
dermatological biopsies, and orthopedic interventions, fostering confidence in
the technical aspects of patient care.

**Selectives: Outpatient Specialty Clinic (OSC)**

The OSC selective offers residents exposure to various medical disciplines in
outpatient settings within the affiliated teaching hospitals and clinics,
focusing on managing chronic medical conditions. The rotation provides
valuable experience in the longitudinal care of patients with diverse health
needs, contributing to a well-rounded medical education. Clinical experiences
may include breastfeeding clinics, colposcopy clinics, early arthritis
clinics, endoscopy clinics, or wound clinics. The options are vast and allow
for individualization to each resident’s needs and interests.

  
**PGY-1 Sample Rotation Schedule  **

  * 4 Blocks (16 weeks): Family Medicine
  * 2 Blocks (8 weeks): Family Medicine within the first 6 months
  * 2 Blocks: (8 weeks): Family Medicine within the last 6 months
  * 2 Blocks: (8 weeks): Pediatrics
  * 2 Blocks: (8 weeks): General Internal Medicine
  * 1 Block: Family Medicine Extracurricular (ETC.)
  * 2 Blocks: (6 weeks): Obstetrics & Gynecology
  * 1 Block (6 weeks): Mental Health & Addiction Medicine
  * 1 Block (4 weeks): Emergency Medicine 1

**PGY-2 Sample Rotation Schedule  **

  * 4 Blocks (16 weeks): Family Medicine
  * 2 Blocks (8 weeks): Family Medicine - Urgent Care within the first 6 months
  * 2 Blocks (8 weeks): Family Medicine with last 6 months 
  * 2 Block (8 weeks): Electives
  * 1 Block (4 weeks): Emergency Medicine 2
  * 1 Block (4 weeks): Care of the Elderly (2 weeks)/Palliative Care (2 weeks) 
  * 1 Block (4 weeks): Family Medicine Extracurricular (ETC.)
  * 2 Blocks (8 weeks): Rural Medicine & Indigenous Care
  * 2 Blocks (8 weeks): Selectives (Outpatient Specialty Clinics and Outpatient Specialty Clinics)

**Quality Improvement**

A core component of the PGME Resident curriculum will be conducting a Quality
Improvement project (QI) to be submitted by the middle of their second year of
residency. Residents will be introduced to QI principles in their first year
of residency. Residents will be encouraged to think of a topic or relevant
area for improvement as they progress throughout their residency.  Dedicated
time in Academic Half Day (AHD) will be provided for residents to form groups,
plan their projects, etc. After submission, the projects will be presented at
an AHD session, and faculty will select a ‘winning project’ that will receive
an award at graduation.

**PGME Foundational Curriculum**

The PGME Foundational Curriculum has been designed to address competencies
that are not always fostered within the clinical learning environment with a
consistent approach across PGME programs.

The PGME Foundational Curriculum will include a Research and Critical
Appraisal Course to ensure that core research and scholarship content is
delivered to all PGME Residents. Recognizing the huge diversity of research
methods, the Research and Critical Appraisal Course Course will link to
additional resources and outside courses that will allow them some
individualization in learning content relevant to individual Residents’
particular research endeavours.

Residents will be encouraged to seek out any research or quality improvement
projects they are interested in, and appropriate Faculty support will be
provided as needed. This may include creating their own project, or working
with a family physician faculty member on an existing project.

Aspects of the Foundational Curriculum include:

**Foundations Course**

  * Introduction Module 
  * Professionalism and Code of Conduct Module 
  * Foundational Module 

**Communication Course  **

  * Team-Based Care Module
  * Conflict Resolution/Critical Conversations Module
  * Patient and Family-Centred Care Module

**Leadership Course  **

  * Introduction Module
  * Wellness and Resiliency Module 
  * Ethics/Choosing Wisely Module 
  * Fatigue Risk Management Module

**Continuous Quality Improvement and Patient Safety Course  **

  * Introduction Module 
  * Continuous Quality Improvement Module 
  * Patient Safety Module

**Research and Critical Appraisal Course**

  * Research Basics Module 
  * Health Literacy Module 
  * Critical Appraisal Module 
  * Elective module on Proposed Research Methodology

**Teaching Course  **

  * Resident as Teacher Module 
  * Presentations Module 
  * Large/Small Group Facilitation Module 
  * Bedside Teaching Module
  * Virtual Delivery of Education Module

**Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Accessibility, &
Reconciliation/Decolonization/Indigenous Resurgence (EDIA-RDIR) and Anti-
Racism Course**

  * Equity, Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Module 
  * Black Health Module 
  * Indigenous Health Module 
  * Accessibility Module 
  * Sexual and Gender Minorities Module 
  * Poverty Health Module



* * *

# Training Sites

The TMU School of Medicine currently has clinical partnerships with four major
training sites:

  * [William Osler Health System](https://www.williamoslerhs.ca/en/index.aspx)
  * [Trillium Health Partners](https://www.thp.ca/Pages/Home.aspx)
  * [Headwaters Health Care Centre](https://www.headwatershealth.ca/)
  * [Halton Healthcare ](https://www.haltonhealthcare.on.ca/)

[**TMU Clinical Affiliate Map  
**  
](https://maphub.net/tmu_medicine/tmu-school-of-medicine-affiliations) As the
School of Medicine announces additional partnerships, the sites for core
program rotations may change. Residency training will leverage a distributed
model which may include training at any of these sites for learning in
environments, which include community and clinical settings, urban and rural
environments, and inpatient and outpatient settings. While the majority of
resident training will be focused in Peel and surrounding communities,
additional learning experiences may take place at other training sites within
Canada through Inter-University Affiliation Agreements. These agreements are
subject to change and result in training at sites other than those that are
listed above.

Travel to various locations will be required. Access to a personal vehicle
will be beneficial, though anyone with access to a reliable means of
transportation is encouraged to consider this program.

* * *

# Additional Information

A novel program called LEARN (Leadership, Education, Advocacy, Research, and
Non-clinical) Time will allow residents to access protected time that they may
direct toward opportunities for experiential learning activities.

  * It is anticipated that many residents will leverage this time to participate in work worthy of publication and scholarly work. While this program will be overseen by the Family Medicine Residency Program’s Competence Subcommittees, central support for some elements of the LEARN Time program will also be provided. In particular, annual LEARN Time events will connect residents with individuals working in other areas of TMU, Brampton/Peel, and surrounding committees. This will allow for some ‘scholarly matchmaking’ to happen outside of the Family Medicine Residency Program to connect Residents with a broader array of scholarly opportunities than would exist solely within the Family Medicine Residency Program.  
  

  * Residents may also use LEARN time to engage in other Leadership and Advocacy work, such as with the Ontario Medical Association (OMA), Professional Association of Residents of Ontario (PARO), College of Family Physicians of Canada (CFPC) and Ontario College of Family Physicians (OCFP), allowing residents to engage with formal leadership and other opportunities early on in their careers. They may also choose to engage in formal teaching and mentorship of TMU School of Medicine undergraduate medical students. They will be provided a formal curriculum as well as informal mentorship opportunities for developing teaching skills. 

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27668?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27668