#  University of Alberta - Dermatology - Edmonton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on December 23, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Jaggi Rao  

Address Medicine - Dermatology  
13-133 Clinical Sciences Building  
11350 - 83 Avenue  
Edmonton, Alberta, T6G 2G3  

Work

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Dermatology Residency Training
](https://www.ualberta.ca/department-of-medicine/education/residency-
programs/dermatology)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Jaggi Rao

Title: Program Director

Email: jrao@ualberta.ca

  

Name: Ashley Avani

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: mednderm@ualberta.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

**CASPER Requirement**

All applicants to our residency program at the University of Alberta are
required to complete the CASPER (Computer-Based Assessment for Sampling
Personal Characteristics) test, to assist with our selection process.
Successful completion of CASPER is mandatory in order to maintain admission
eligibility. CASPER is an open-response, situational judgment test that
evaluates aspects of applicants’ social intelligence and professionalism such
as ethics, empathy, problem-solving and collaboration. For more information on
the test, go to
[https://takealtus.com/casper/.](https://takealtus.com/casper/) CASPER scores
are only valid for a single admissions cycle and for the test type for which
you have taken the test. For example, if an applicant took the Canadian Post
Graduate Medical Education test for the CaRMS Round 1 match, the same CASPER
score will be considered for the Round 2 match.

Your CASPER assessment result is sent directly to our program/CaRMS from
Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights permission to
share your results with CaRMS.

* * *

# Return of Service

There are no return of service requirements at the University of Alberta.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Please see the Alberta [provincial
criteria.](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/)

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) are required to provide proof of
English language proficiency as determined by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) who completed their medical education in
Quebec or at the University of Ottawa (French Stream) are required to provide
proof of English language proficiency as determined by the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

CMGs who completed their medical education at the University of Ottawa must
indicate on their application which stream they completed (either French or
English).

_For more information on the CPSA English language requirements, please visit
the  [CPSA website](https://cpsa.ca/physicians/registration/english-language-
proficiency/)._

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

3 Reference Letters - maximum 3 reference letters are required and should be
written by clinical staff thoroughly familiar with the candidate.

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Curriculum Vitae

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

Personal Letter – A personal letter expressing the following: (max 750 words)

1\. Why would you want to train in our program?

2\. If you had to choose one academic niche today, what would it be and why?

3\. What strengths and weaknesses do you possess relevant to the practice of
Dermatology?

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 1, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held on Saturday**,
February 1, 2025,**  in virtual format via Zoom.  
  
Interviews will be scheduled in a panel format.  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: **_Invitations for interviews will be
posted by email, and only applicants selected for interview will be
contacted._ Please ensure that the program has your current email address.**  
  
This Interview Day will give you the opportunity to meet virtually with the
Teaching Faculty and Residents at the Division of Dermatology & Cutaneous
Sciences at the University of Alberta in Edmonton, Alberta.  It is a crucial
part of the CaRMS application process, allowing you to gain further knowledge
of our Dermatology Program, and facilitate our Selection Committee to select
the most suitable residents for the CaRMS Match.  
  
The applicant/interviewer interaction will be that of**  the panel format**.
Applicants will complete a series of panel interviews, rotating from station
to station.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates with superior academic achievements and demonstrated interest in
academic dermatology, with well-rounded personalities will be considered.
Candidates will also be selected on the basis of their potential to contribute
to the residency program and to Canadian Dermatology.

To improve on our selection process, this year we will be using the CASPER
assessment.  Please make sure to have this completed and submitted with your
CaRMS application.



## Program goals

Our mission is to promote and provide world class excellence in dermatology
teaching, medical discovery through research, leadership, and clinical service
as well as to provide a comprehensive, safe and supportive training program
that allows our Dermatology Residents to not only achieve and excel at the
competencies laid out by the Royal College, but also provide them the support
to achieve their personalized career and life goals.

## Selection process goals

While demonstration of a strong academic record is necessary, our goal is to
recruit a diverse group of trainees that we, as the selection committee, feel
would be a good fit with our program and division in terms of
personal/professional characteristics, career aspirations and training
background.  We have a very collegial, supportive, and productive group of
academic and community dermatologists in our division and are looking for
candidates that will contribute and fit well with this environment.

## File review process

Review team composition : Program Director, RPC members, and community
members, as well as at least one senior resident.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
Average number is 50.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Well organized; relevant information neatly stated   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Who have completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Needs to have passed all University examinations.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Looking for a well-rounded individual with good social skills and also interested in other branches of medicine. We appreciate candidates who also enjoy sports, and/or music or other non medical activities.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Ability to take personal initiative in learning and self-improving.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Pass mark.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  1 Personal letters required.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  3 Reference letters required.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  All research is reviewed and appreciated. Research in dermatology is more important.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Pass / Comments.   
Other file component(s) |  Awards received; other degrees obtained (DDS etc), post-graduate degree (MSc, PhD, etc), Any other university studies relevant to medicine. CASPER assessment.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  The ability to work well with other residents, faculty, and allied health professionals.   
Collegiality |  The ability to help fellow residents and medical students.   
Communication skills |  Proper use of English (grammar and syntax) and body language.   
Health advocacy |  The willingness to advocate for patients who are unable to navigate the healthcare system.   
Interest in the discipline |  We evaluate this in the panel interview.   
Interest in the program |  We evaluate this component in the panel interview.   
Leadership skills |  Ability to take appropriate charge in a problematic situation with the intent of solving it.   
Professionalism |  Ability to be confidential, respectful towards patients & colleagues.   
Scholarly activities |  We evaluate this component during the panel interview.   
Other interview component(s) |  Overall global assessment and discussion at the end of the whole interview process.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  We may call the referees for more information about the candidates  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Residents admitted to our program through the CaRMS match are required to
complete five years of residency training.

This program is designated to fully satisfy the Natioinal Standards in
Dermatology of Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.  This
program will regularly review rotations to continuously improve as per the
Royal College standards, so the rotations listed are as they exist currently.
University of Alberta Dermatology Training program is a CBD program.

You can familiarize yourself with the division and the clinical facilities
using the following resources.

Clinic website:
[www.ualbertadermatology.ca](http://www.ualbertadermatology.ca/)

University website: <https://www.ualberta.ca/department-of-
medicine/divisions/dermatology/index.html>

Below, you will find a brief summary of the program.

**PGY 1-2**

These first two years rotating through different specialties help give the
basis for a competent, well-rounded dermatologist.

The hospitals involved in this training may include:  University of Alberta
Hospital, Grey Nuns Hospital, Royal Alexandra Hospital, Stollery Children's
Hospital, Misericordia Community Hospital and Cross Cancer Institute.

Our program adheres to the standards set forth by the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.  Please refer to their website for the
mandatory rotations for Dermatology.

**PGY 3-5**

These years are dedicated entirely to dermatology training with clinical
dermatology training, (including general adult dermatology, pediatric
dermatology, inpatient/consultation dermatology, subspecialty dermatology
clinics), and dermatopathology training.

**General Clinical Dermatology:**

The Division of Dermatology at the University of Alberta enjoys dedicated
clinic space in the new Kaye Edmonton Clinic Building (Level 3, 3C1.01, 11400
University Avenue, Edmonton, Alberta).  The space allocated to dermatology
includes: TWELVE examination rooms, TWO procedural rooms, and a phototherapy
unit

Subspecialty Clinics may include (based on availability):

  * Hair Disease Clinic
  * Pigmented Lesion Clinic
  * Occupational Hand & Eczema Clinic
  * Skin Health Clinic (psychiatry-dermatology clinic)
  * Vulvar Dermatology
  * Patch Test Clinic
  * Dermatology & Rheumatology (DART) Clinic
  * Hematology-Dermatology
  * Cutaneous Lymphoma Clinic
  * Melanoma Clinic

**Pediatric Dermatology**

This is a longitudinal clinic that is attended throughout the PGY 3-5 years.
All residents rotate through on a sequential basis and have equal opportunity
to pediatric dermatology. The pediatric dermatology patients seen in these
clinics are referred by family physicians, pediatricians and other
dermatologists.  They cover a wide variety of disorders, from common
conditions to many rare and genetic disorders.  There may be opportunities to
be exposed to Pediatric Dermatology surgery and Vascular anomaly clinics.

**Dermatopathology:**

This is offered through the dermatopathologist(s) at the U of A and the
community labs (eg. Alberta Precision Labs).  The dermatopathologists give
relevant lectures to the dermatology residents on a rotating basis, and the
residents also have the opportunity to spend time with the
dermatopathologists, signing out slides with them.

**Research:**

All residents are encouraged to do research and our program has requirements
for participation in scholarly project(s) as per the Royal College
requirements.  We have a number of faculty members who are involved in basic
research and clinical research and QI projects.  All residents are highly
encouraged to present at national and international academic conferences.

**Community Dermatology:**

Community rotations are held in private dermatologists' offices throughout
Edmonton and the greater Edmonton area.  All the supervising dermatologists
hold a University appointment.  The residents are encouraged to rotate through
different offices to be exposed to a variety of practice styles and interests.
Several of the dermatologists situated into the community are fellowship-
trained Mohs surgeons, or have additional training in cosmetics and lasers.

**Elective Content of Training:**

Electives are meant to provide opportunities for more concentrated and/or more
in-depth training in areas of resident interest or in realms or deficiency,
with respect to the program and/or specific resident.  Residents are expected
to discuss their elective plans with the Program Director to ensure the
elective is consistent with the resident's career plans.

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

Clinical rotations are conducted at the following sites:

  * University of Alberta Hospital Site (UDC - Kaye Edmonton Clinic)
  * Royal Alexandra Hospital Site
  * Stollery Children's Health Centre
  * Cross Cancer Institute
  * Grey Nuns Hospital

All of these sites have access to electronic medical resources, through
terminals located on the wards. Each resident has a personal password assigned
which allows access to electronic medical records on patients, laboratory
results, and web-based learning resources.



* * *

# Additional Information

**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)**

The University of Alberta recognizes the importance of diversity, equity,
inclusivity, decolonization, and indigenization (EDIDI) and is committed to
the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry’s policy on anti-racism.

Further, the University is committed to implementing the Truth and
Reconciliation Commission calls to action that are relevant to education and
medicine.The pursuit of diversity and equitable opportunities is a core value
that guides our selection practices.

The University encourages applications from underrepresented groups, including
Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women,
persons of a minority gender identity or sexual orientation, and individuals
who would contribute to the diversity of the medical community. The CaRMS
Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) is an optional form that candidates
can fill out.

Our program is choosing to integrate the CSIQ into our selection process as
part of the file review process and it may be used to aid interview selection
or adjust final rankings.

Information gathered via the CSIQ will only have a neutral or positive impact
on applications. That is, it can be used to address issues of program priority
and diversity within the program but cannot be used to disadvantage or
disqualify applicants. The CSIQ can be used to address issues of program
priority and diversity within the program but cannot be used to disadvantage
or disqualify applicants. Information gathered via the CSIQ will only have a
neutral or positive impact on applications.

If there are concerns about this process or about the use of information
disclosed in the CSIQ, applicants can direct these concerns directly to the
CaRMS Privacy Officer at [compliance@carms.ca](mailto:compliance@carms.ca).
For more information, please go to[ https://www.carms.ca/news/the-carms-self-
identification-questionnaire/](https://www.carms.ca/news/the-carms-self-
identification-questionnaire/)

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27395?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27395