#  Dalhousie University - Family Medicine integrated Emergency Medicine -
Sussex - Saint John  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on October 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Sasha Sealy  

Address Family Medicine  
1465 Brenton St.  
Suite 402  
Halifax , Nova Scotia, B3J 3T4  

902-487-2012

902-473-4760

Websites of Interest [ Dalhousie Family Medicine
](http://family.medicine.dal.ca/)  
[ Dalhousie Family Medicine Residency Sites
](https://www.maritimefamilymedicine.ca/)  
[ Residency at Dalhousie Family Medicine (Video)
](https://youtu.be/8Ili0qE7hf0)  
[ Saint John (Integrated Family Medicine and Emergency Medicine) (video)
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hzolJ5dtTek)  
[ Dalhousie Faculty of Medicine Postgraduate Program
](http://postgraduate.medicine.dal.ca/)  
[ Maritime Resident Doctors ](http://www.maritimeresidentdoctors.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: FMEM Saint John / Sussex

Name: Dr. Robin Clouston

Title: Site Director

Email: robin.clouston@dal.ca

Phone: (506) 649-2582

  

General Information: FMEM Saint John / Sussex

Name: Joan Wilkins

Title: Site Administrator

Email: fmresidency.saintjohn@dal.ca

Phone: (506) 649-2582

  

General Information: Program Information

Name: James Logan

Title: Accreditation and CaRMS Administrator

Email: fmresidency@dal.ca

Phone: 902-487-2012

902-473-4760 (Fax)

  

* * *

# Important Information

[NOVA SCOTIA, NEW BRUNSWICK and PEI](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-
residency-match/eligibility-criteria/nova-scotia-new-brunswick-pei/):  To
obtain a postgraduate training license in Nova Scotia after the conclusion of
the match, Canadian Medical Graduates must have registered and challenged the
Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Exam Part 1 (MCCQE 1) by July 1, 2025.
Those unsuccessful in the exam are subject to the decision of the regulatory
authority regarding [licensure](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/r-1-summary-of-mcc-examination-
requirements/#1705502447926-7b75d3bd-286e).

Our program values the importance of equity, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) as
a goal in the selection process.

To help inform and advance EDI in our selection process we are pleased to
offer the option to submit the voluntary CaRMS Self Identification
Questionnaire. Additionally, there is an additional verification process for
Indigenous membership or citizenship. Please see sections below for further
information.  
  

**Important Deadline for Site Selection:  
** Please note that the deadline for adding or dropping a site to your list of
choices is _**February 3, 2025**_. Be sure to finalize your site preferences
before this date, as no changes can be made after the deadline.

  
**_Mandatory Attendance Curriculum Event:_**  
_Each year Dalhousie Family Medicine hosts a mandatory attendance curriculum
event - a Family Medicine Resident Education Weekend.  Attendance for all
residents from all sites is required. Further information is provided to
residents. **Time off requests  will not be approved during this period
excluding extenuating circumstances. FMREW 2025 will be held at the Algonquin
Resort in St. Andrews, NB on Wednesday, September 24 - Friday, September 26,
2025.**_

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Applicants must apply to and rank each of the Dalhousie Family Medicine sites
individually.

There will only be ONE interview per applicant although you may be applying to
more than one Dalhousie Family Medicine Site. For candidates applying to both
2-year FM and 3-year iFMEM sites, or only 3-year iFMEM sites, the interview
will include all required content for both site types.  

The same personal letter MUST be used for all Dalhousie Family Medicine
applications as only one letter will be reviewed per applicant. This is true
for all sites, including both the 2-year family medicine sites as well as the
3-year Family Medicine integrated Emergency Medicine sites; submit one
personal letter for ALL sites.

**FMProC Requirement for CaRMS 2025**

For the 2025 residency selection cycle ALL FM residency programs in Canada
require applicants to sit FMProC for those applying in both rounds of CaRMS.
To support this we provide the test with the following registration and test
window dates;  
  
**1st round  
Registration:  
**Opens 11th September Wednesday 12 noon ET.  
**Closes 7th November Thursday 10AM ET.**  
We strongly advise you not to leave registration till the last minute.  
  
**Test Window:**  
Opens 28th October Monday 8AM ET.  
**Closes 11th November Monday 10AM ET.  
  
**THESE DEADLINES ARE FINAL AND NO REQUEST FOR LATE REGISTRATION OR LATE
SITTING OF THE TEST WILL BE CONSIDERED**  
ALL **17 FM Residency Programs require the FMProC for both rounds of the
upcoming CaRMS cycle, but you only need to register, pay for, and sit the
test, once.  
  
**2nd round  
Registration:**  
Opens 25th February Tuesday 12 noon ET.  
**Closes 10th March Monday 12 noon ET.**  
  
**Test Window:**  
Opens 27th February Thursday 10AM ET.  
**Closes; 12th March Wednesday 10AM ET.  
  
**THESE DEADLINES ARE FINAL AND NO REQUEST FOR LATE REGISTRATION OR LATE
SITTING OF THE TEST WILL BE CONSIDERED**  
ALL **17 FM Residency Programs require the FMProC for both rounds of the
upcoming CaRMS cycle, but you only need to register, pay for, and sit the
test, once.  
**  
Please read the following carefully as it includes important information.  
[FAQs](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/sites/default/files/teams/128/FMProC/FMProC_CProMF%202025_FAQs.pdf)  
[Information](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/sites/default/files/teams/128/FMProC/FMProC_CProMF%202025_Information_V2.0%2024-07-25%20ENG%20Clean.pdf)**

Further details can be found here: [www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/)  

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

You must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident _**at the time of
application**_.

Examinations

Required

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

For CARMS 2025, Family Medicine Programs continue with the adoption of the
Canadian Family Medicine _Structured Reference Letter_  (SRL). Any FM program
requesting a reference will require the form. **Traditional narrative letters
will NOT be accepted**. Should your referee submit a traditional letter it
will not be reviewed and your application may be deemed incomplete. Please
direct your referees to the SRL on the CaRMS website.

It is required that a minimum of two (2) of the three (3) SRLs are obtained
from those you have worked with in a **clinical setting**.

**DO NOT SEND MORE THAN 3.**

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English, you
are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Custom Résumé / CV

Please identify your high school of graduation and its location (city,
province) in your CV.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

A personal letter of introduction is a key component in our selection criteria
and is required in addition to the CaRMS application.** Candidates who fail to
provide a personal letter WILL NOT BE RANKED.**

Your letter should be no more than 750 words in length. Topics to be covered
in this letter are:

  * **ANY GAP in training, TIME NOT ACCOUNTED FOR IN YOUR eCaRMS CV, additional time required to finish your MD program, or any failures experienced throughout your MD program or previous residency training programs MUST BE EXPLAINED  in this letter**

  * if you were unmatched in previous years, please advise what clinical/educational activities you've been involved in since that time

  * your concept of family medicine

  * reason for choosing family medicine

  * particular interest in the Dalhousie program

  * where you hope to practice

  * a brief biographical sketch

  * your reflection on how you meet our selection criteria

If you have a personal relationship to the Maritime provinces, please ensure
to explain that in your personal letter in addition to the above topics.



Conditionally required

Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry

**Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry and/or Self-Identification of Black
Learners**

We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. Any responses received will be used only to support our
program’s and Dalhousie’s equity, diversity, and inclusion goals.

We invite applicable candidates to also complete Dalhousie’s verification
process for Indigenous identity, membership, or citizenship; or the self-
identification process for those who identify as Black.



**Conditionally required**

Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry

If you have self-identified as Indigenous, we require additional information.

Applicants shall provide a certified copy of one or more of the following
documents with their application:

  1. A Certificate of Indian Status issued by the Government of Canada, or a First Nation recognized by the Government of Canada;
  2. Written confirmation of membership or citizenship with a federally recognized band or tribal authority in the United States or Canada;
  3. Written confirmation of Inuit enrolment or a copy of an Inuit enrolment/beneficiary card issued by a modern Inuit treaty organization or government as follows:  
3.1 Inuvialuit Regional Corporation;  
3.2 Nunavut Tunngavik Incorporated;  
3.3 Makivik Corporation;  
3.4 Nunatsiavut Government;

  4. Written confirmation of Métis citizenship/membership or a copy of a Métis citizenship/membership card provided by a Métis government as follows:  
4.1 Métis National Council governing members:  
4.2 Métis Nation – Saskatchewan;  
4.3 Métis Nation of Alberta;  
4.4 Métis Nation British Columbia;  
4.5 Métis Nation of Ontario;  
4.6 Manitoba Métis Federation;  
4.7 Métis Settlements of Alberta.

Applicants who do not supply any of the documents listed above shall supply a
250-word statement with applicable supporting documentation that demonstrates
how they meet the citizenship or membership criteria established by the
recognized Indigenous nation to which they claim membership or citizenship.

The above information is only made available to Dalhousie PGME, Program
Director, and Program Manager of applicable training programs and will only be
used for purposes of the CaRMS matching process.

Please see below for the certification of documents.

# Certification of Documents

Documents may be certified by one of the following professionals:

  1. Accountant
  2. Chief of a First Nations Band
  3. Commissioner for Oaths
  4. Employee of a Service Canada Centre acting in an official capacity
  5. Funeral Director
  6. Justice of the Peace
  7. Lawyer, Magistrate, or Notary
  8. Manager of a Financial Institution
  9. Regulated Medical or Health Practitioner
  10. Member of Parliament or their staff
  11. Member of a Provincial/Territorial Legislature or their staff
  12. Minister of Religion
  13. Municipal Clerk
  14. Official of a Federal/Provincial/Indigenous Government Department or one of its agencies
  15. Official of an Embassy, Consulate, or High Commission
  16. Police Officer
  17. Professional Engineer
  18. Social Worker
  19. Teacher
  20. University Professor or Staff

The person certifying the document(s) must:

  1. Compare the original to the copy
  2. State their official position or title
  3. Print their name
  4. Sign their name
  5. Write the date they certified the document
  6. Provide their telephone number
  7. Write the following statement: This is a true copy of the original document, which has not been altered in any way

**Conditionally required**

Self-identification Process for Black Learners

If you self-identify as Black, please complete the following questions, and
include with your application:

1\. **Do you self-identify as Black?**

Yes/No

2.**If yes, please choose the category you identify most with:**

a. African Nova Scotian*

b. Black Maritimer

i. Nova Scotia without ties to a historic African Nova Scotian community

ii. New Brunswick

iii. Prince Edward Island

c. Black Canadian

d. Multiracial

i. African Nova Scotian and ______

ii. Black Maritimer and ________

iii. Black Canadian and _________

iv. Black and Indigenous

3\. **In 500 words or less, please speak to the self-identification category
you chose above. Include things to highlight your connection to Black
community as well as your lineage. If you chose African Nova Scotian, note
Dalhousie uses the following definition from the African Nova Scotian
Strategy, and we ask you speak to your specific land-based community.**

* “African Nova Scotians are a distinct People who descend from free and enslaved Black Planters, Black Loyalists, Black Refugees, Maroons and other Black people who inhabited the original 52 land-based Black communities in that part of Mi’kma’ki known as Nova Scotia.” ([African Nova Scotian Strategy](https://www.dal.ca/about/mission-vision-values/equity-diversity-inclusion-and-accessibility/about-office-equity-inclusion.html#:~:text=WHAT%20IS%20THE%20AFRICAN%20NOVA,with%20African%20Nova%20Scotian%20communities))



All self-identification documentation will be reviewed by the Black faculty
leadership within the Faculty of Medicine.



Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire or to complete Dalhousie’s verification process, but for those
that do feel comfortable doing so the information received would only be used
to advantage those who would contribute to the diversity of our community.

Optional - will be reviewed

Self-identification questionnaire

We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. Any responses received will be used only to support our
program’s and Dalhousie’s equity, diversity, and inclusion goals.

Additionally, we invite applicable candidates to also complete Dalhousie’s
verification process for Indigenous identity, membership, or citizenship.

Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire or to complete Dalhousie’s verification process, but for those
that do feel comfortable doing so the information received would only be used
to advantage those who would contribute to the diversity of our community.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be conducted via an online
platform.  
  
**Please note, only ONE interview date and time per applicant can be scheduled
regardless of the number of sites to which you apply. Those applicants who
apply for both FM and iFMEM sites, or only iFMEM sites, will be offered a
Combined  Interview date and time for their ONE interview; this Combined
Interview date will be used for both the FM and iFMEM selection process.
Interviews are mandatory to be ranked by this program.**  
  
**Interviews are  mandatory to be ranked by this program.**  
  
**We will be holding virtual Information Sessions on the following dates and
times (Atlantic Standard Time):  
**  
  
**Thursday, November 14, 2024, from 7 - 9 pm AST**  
  
**Wednesday, November 27, 2024, from 7 - 9 pm AST**  
  
**Saturday, January 11, 2025, from 12 - 2 pm AST  
  
**  
  
**Please visit our Family Medicine event page
([Link)](https://medicine.dal.ca/departments/department-
sites/family/education/postgraduate/family-medicine-events.html "Family
Medicine Events Page") for updates and registration.**  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: For questions please contact:  
  
James Logan  
  
Accreditation and CaRMS Administrator  
  
Email: fmresidency@dal.ca  
  
Phone: 902-487-2012  
  
Fax: 902-473-4760  
  
**  
Please note only one interview will be offered to each applicant.**  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

The Dalhousie Department of Family Medicine's program goal is to train
residents to be family physicians who through education, research,
comprehensive clinical care, and engagement in partnerships, meet the needs of
Maritime communities.  Residents are trained to address health needs of all
populations including underserved communities and individuals with complex
needs, giving them the ability to practice in diverse family practice
settings.  

Our program and university value the importance of equity, diversity and
inclusion (EDI) in residency education, and achieving a diverse and inclusive
group of residents is a goal in our selection process. The CaRMS Self
Identification Questionnaire advances diversity and inclusivity within the
residency program.

                                                 

## Selection process goals

As a program we are looking for applicants with solid people skills, a variety
of life experiences, an admirable work ethic and reasonable academic
background. We look for evidence of commitment to family medicine in your
personal letter. We are interested in candidates who are comfortable with
self-directed learning, with teamwork, with seeking out the countless learning
opportunities available, and with an interest in an appropriate balance
between personal life, family, community and professional life.

Dalhousie is committed to fostering a collegial culture grounded in diversity
and inclusiveness. The university encourages applications from Indigenous
persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women, persons of a
minority sexual orientation and/or gender identity, and all candidates who
would contribute to the diversity of our community.

Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire or to complete the verification process for Indigenous identity,
membership, or citizenship, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so
the information received would only be used to advantage those who would
contribute to the diversity of our community.

Any self identification questionnaires received and the results of the
verification process will be reviewed as part of our file review process, and
used as an aid for file reviewers in selecting a diverse group of candidates
for interviews. Information received may also be used by the program to adjust
final rankings, at the discretion of the selection committee, to address
issues of program priority and diversity.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team includes faculty and resident file
reviewers from each site.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 401 - 600  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  
We endeavour to interview all CMG applicants based on capacity, except for
those with incomplete applications. An application is deemed incomplete if any
of the required documents are not received on or before the application and
document assignments deadline of November 29th, 2024, at 12:00 (noon) ET.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Please see Additional Documents section for details regarding CV content. Content evaluated.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Please see elective criteria section for details.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Content evaluated.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of involvement in extra-curricular activities.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of leadership experience is viewed positively.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Content evaluated.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Please see Additional Documents section for details regarding personal letter content.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Prefer at least one Reference Letter from a Family Physician or Generalist. Require a minimum of two letters from those worked with in a clinical setting.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest or involvement in research.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance and gaps/extensions in training.   
Other file component(s) |  Reference Documents- We look for comments that the candidate is suited to a career in Family Medicine, comments about performance in a generalist setting as well as candidates' clinical experience and personal characteristics.  
  
The same personal letter MUST be used for all Dalhousie Family Medicine
applications as only one letter will be reviewed per applicant. This is true
for all sites, including both the 2-year family medicine sites as well as the
3-year Family Medicine integrated Emergency Medicine sites; submit one
personal letter for ALL sites.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We are looking for applicants who have completed a range of electives
including in family medicine. For students who have trained in an LIC in a
family medicine practice, family medicine electives are not required.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  1 faculty or 1 faculty and 1 resident team.  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to actively participate in a team environment.   
Collegiality |  We do not specifically evaluate this interview component.   
Communication skills |  Ability to communicate clearly and effectively in English.   
Health advocacy |  We do not specifically evaluate this interview component.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated interest in Family Medicine.   
Interest in the program |  Interest in living in the Maritimes.   
Leadership skills |  We do not specifically evaluate this interview component.   
Professionalism |  We evaluate professionalism based on personal presentation and interactions.   
Scholarly activities |  We do not specifically evaluate this interview component.   
Other interview component(s) |  There will only be ONE interview per applicant although you may be applying to more than one Dalhousie Family Medicine Site. For candidates applying to both 2-year FM and 3-year iFMEM sites, or only 3-year iFMEM sites, the interview will include all required content for both site types.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**The Dalhousie Program - An Overview:**

Have you always wanted to learn in a community setting where family physicians
are respected and valued? If so, Dalhousie is the place for you. Teaching
residents and students in communities across the Maritimes has been the focus
of our Department from its beginnings. Our aim is to encourage residents to
become effective, compassionate family physicians who can care for their
patients in hospital, ambulatory, and community settings. You will be able to
learn office practice, in-patient care, obstetrics, procedures and emergency
skills from family physicians who are skilled and experienced.

**_What support is available to residents in the program including rural
clinical learning experiences?_**

Residents are only expected to pay rent in one location. Thus, if a resident
has a lease or a mortgage, and the program requires them to live at another
site for a period of time, the cost of the rent is reimbursed to the resident.
Travel expenses are paid when a resident is required to move to a different
site for a core clinical learning experience. If residents are required to
travel to multiple sites during a core clinical learning experience, they are
reimbursed for the additional kilometres. Travel to and from work is not
reimbursed.

**_Are there opportunities for electives?_**

Residents in the Dalhousie University program can arrange up to four weeks of
their elective time outside of the Maritime Provinces. Other elective time
should be done in the Maritime Provinces.  Residents can apply to do more than
four weeks outside the Maritime Provinces for global health experiences.

**_What are the research requirements of the program?_**

A resident project is required during the residency. Residents receive
protected time for scholarly activity during the core family medicine clinical
learning experience to work on this project. It is also expected that the
residents will take advantage of any expertise available to them through their
community practice clinical learning experiences. The purpose of the resident
project is to introduce the resident to the process of finding answers to
questions commonly encountered in primary care by critically reviewing the
available literature. Where such answers are found lacking, the resident may
choose to employ an appropriate methodology to design a study using proper
scientific rigour, to answer that question.

**_What about ATLS, ALARM, ACLS and NRP?_**

Advanced Trauma Life Support (ATLS), Advances in Labour and Risk Management
(ALARM), Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS), Neonatal Resuscitation Program
(NRP) - **All residents are required to have ACLS prior to beginning
residency**. During the residency, all residents are funded to attend an ATLS
course, an ALARM course, an NRP course, and an ACLS refresher.

**_How do residents learn evidence-based medicine and research skills?_**

Current approaches to practising evidence-based medicine are taught through
patient and practice-based tutorials. Emphasis is on learning the skills to
seek the research evidence to support clinical decision-making.

**_What PGY3 positions are available?_**

There are PGY3 positions in Emergency Medicine, Palliative Care and Care of
the Elderly at Dalhousie. Individualized third year programs may also be
available at a resident's request and initiative and subject to funding
availability.

\----





**Saint John / Sussex THREE YEAR INTEGRATED FAMILY MEDICINE EMERGENCY MEDICINE
PROGRAM - Introduction**

This program combines the core competencies which are addressed in the two-
year Family Medicine and the one-year Enhanced Skills in Emergency Medicine
programs into an integrated three-year program.

The integrated approach will result in competencies being accumulated over
three years. Some components will continue to be completed in a similar
fashion to the traditional two-year Family Medicine program but other
competencies will be obtained in a more longitudinal fashion that builds on
the skills obtained over a longer period of time. This program uses settings
in the Saint John and Sussex areas health care region in New Brunswick, where
family physicians provide comprehensive family medicine care and take
leadership roles in the delivery of emergency care in rural hospitals.

The community of Sussex, a small town located 70km from Saint John NB, is an
ideal place to learn the core principles of family medicine as well as
longitudinal enhanced skills in emergency medicine. Residents appreciate the
opportunity to look after their patients in a community-based oﬃce and the
local Sussex Health Centre rural hospital, while also working in and having
access to the services of a large tertiary care hospital at the Saint John
Regional Hospital, 45 minutes away.

Inpatient care, prenatal care, palliative care and house calls are all a part
of the comprehensive family medicine rotations. There are ample opportunities
given for resident research and supplementary experiences in family medicine,
as well as longitudinal skills development in Enhanced Skills Emergency
Medicine. Exam preparation and faculty mentoring are also part of our program.

**

**THE  Saint John / Sussex THREE YEAR INTEGRATED FAMILY MEDICINE EMERGENCY
MEDICINE PROGRAM - Unique Features**

This innovative program – the first of its kind in Canada - is designed to
prepare family physicians for comprehensive patient care while fulﬁlling
valuable community leadership roles in emergency care. Family physicians in
smaller communities, who frequently staﬀ emergency departments, are required
to be highly trained and equipped to deal with situations that their
colleagues in larger centres often don't encounter.

To better integrate the training required of a physician practising family and
emergency medicine concurrently, this program combines these two aspects of
practice in a cohesive manner. The program covers the core competencies of the
two-year family medicine program and the one-year Enhanced Skills Emergency
Medicine (ESEM) program. The two components are integrated, resulting in
competencies being accumulated longitudinally over the three years.

The resident will spend a large portion of their time in a rural setting where
they will work with a family doctor in the Sussex community, and also work in
the Sussex Health Centre emergency department. Residents in this program share
curriculum with the residents of the core family medicine program as well as
having curriculum designed speciﬁcally for iFMEM. In addition to block time in
specialty rotations, residents will have many half day back experiences in
orthopedics, plastic surgery, and psychiatry during the program. Residents
work in the emergency department on a regular basis during their core family
medicine rotations and experience comprehensive family medicine throughout all
three years. The program includes exam preparation for both the family
medicine CCFP certification exam, as well as the CCFP (EM) exam.

**

  
**THE  Saint John / Sussex THREE YEAR INTEGRATED FAMILY MEDICINE EMERGENCY
MEDICINE PROGRAM \- Rotations**

**Core Family Medicine**  

Each resident will attend their own patients at the oﬃce of their family
medicine preceptor for one half-day per week for all of the weeks the resident
is doing specialty rotations. This ensures both continuity of care as well as
the ability to see a "panel of patients" over a longer period of time. In
Saint John, the half-day back program is extended over the entire three year
program.

The core family medicine block is located in a community family practice in
Sussex. These busy, stimulating environments use collaboration with key health
care providers to optimize patient care. The resident has the opportunity to
work with nurse practitioners, nurses, social workers, pharmacists, dietitians
and occupational therapists. The Saint John-based family medicine residents
all do their core family medicine rotations at the same time, so there is
plenty of time to get to know co-residents.

**Half Day Back Family Medicine**  

Each resident will attend his/her own patients at the oﬃce of his/her family
medicine preceptor for one half-day per week (or equivalent time) for all of
the weeks the resident is doing specialty rotations. This ensures both
continuity of care as well as the ability to see a "panel of patients" over a
longer period of time. In iFMEM, the half-day back program is extended over
the entire three years of the program.

**Emergency Medicine**  

Residents will spend a total of 6 months over three years in the Saint John
Regional Hospital Emergency Department, a state-of-the-art facility serving
60,000 patients per year. Here, residents will get hands-on experience in the
typical case load seen by an emergency physician, including acute medicine,
critical care, and trauma team activation, emergency procedures, as well as
pediatrics and mental health. The SJRH Emergency Department boasts a mature
research program and an active Point of Care Ultrasound (POCUS) program.
Residents will become an Independent Practitioner (IP) in POCUS in their 2nd
year and practice advanced POCUS techniques in 3rd year. The Saint John Area
Emergency Department physician group also covers care at the Sussex Health
Centre, as well as the Charlotte County Hospital, and the St. Joseph’s Urgent
Care Centre, and residents have the opportunity to gain experience at these
sites as well during core emergency medicine blocks.

**Half Day Back to Emergency Medicine**  

During core family medicine rotations, each resident will spend one shift per
week in the emergency dept. This allows the residents to experience emergency
medicine as would a family physician sharing time between an oﬃce and the
emergency dept. This half-day back is extended over the duration of the three-
year program.

**Rural Community**

The rural community blocks take place in the residency’s core site; the
community of Sussex. The resident will work with a different family medicine
preceptor than on core family medicine blocks and also do shifts at the Sussex
Health Centre Emergency Department. The resident will participate in full-
scope family practice, including in-patient care, prenatal care, long-term
care, and house calls.

**

**What is the ratio of residents to faculty?**  

The family medicine rotations - both core and rural - work on a preceptor
model so the ratio is one-to-one. Most of the specialty rotations and
specialty clinics are either team-based or preceptor-based experiences. Thus
the resident-to-faculty ratio will vary depending on the rotation.

**

**What is the average patient load per resident?**  

All the Saint John and rural family practices are very busy allowing residents
to manage a wide variety of patient problems. Residents will see as many
patients per day as their comfort level and competence provides. Usually PGY1
residents start by seeing two patients per hour with constant and immediate
feedback. Senior residents see three to four patients per hour. Inpatient
family medicine loads vary from two to four patients for either primary or
supportive care.

**

**What resources are available?**  

State of the art IT is used for patient record keeping and tracking. Patient
care records, hospital care patient records, laboratory work and digital
X-rays are all available for instant access. Most core practices use an
electronic medical record.

High speed computer access is available in the Medical Education Department at
the Saint John Regional Hospital (SJRH) which includes access to the Dalhousie
electronic library. There is also a dedicated computer area for residents.

The Saint John Regional Hospital library is well equipped with an excellent
staﬀ who can assist residents with any learning need or literature. Patient
care at the SJRH is fully computerized with every computer terminal also
having access to Up-To-Date and the electronic libraries of the hospital and
Dalhousie University. There are laptops available for sign-out when residents
move to other locations.

Residents will have access to high speed internet in the rural sites. Academic
sessions can be attended synchronously with video- conference. There is a
simulation lab located in the emergency department that further enhances the
learning experiences of our residents. A number of formal curriculum sessions
take place in this Sim Lab.

**

**What is the training Site like at Saint John?  **

In general, the Saint John Regional Hospital supports an active learning
environment. At any given time, over 130 undergraduate and postgraduate
learners are on clinical rotations on site with the various medical and
surgical services. The Dalhousie Medical School campus based in Saint John
further supports the learning and teaching environment.

The collegiality between residents and staﬀ - including attendings, nursing
staﬀ, interdisciplinary teams - is a feature of training in Saint John. This
is, in part, due to the smaller staﬀ size which allows residents to easily
become familiar with the staﬀ and resources available and to develop
relationships which allow for a real sense of engagement. Likewise, the
attendings and other hospital staﬀ value and feel engaged in supporting
residency training in Saint John.



**  Our Community and Region:**

Distance from nearest airport to Academic Centre |  20km from Saint John Airport to the Saint John Academic Centre, Saint John Regional Hospital located at 400 University Ave. Saint John. Sussex is located 70km from the Saint John Airport or 87km from the Greater Moncton Airport.  
---|---  
Housing/Accommodation |  Residents are only expected to pay rent in one location and are responsible for securing accommodation. Average cost of accommodation varies widely depending on community. The home site for this residency is the community of Sussex. Residents are expected to live in or near the town of Sussex. Residents must stay within 20 min of the hospital when doing home call.  
Resident Contract | [Maritime Resident Doctors](http://www.maritimeresidentdoctors.ca/)  
Electives | Residents in the Dalhousie University program can arrange up to 4 weeks of their elective time outside the Maritime Provinces.  Other elective time must be done in the Maritime Provinces.  Residents can apply to do more than 4 weeks outside the Maritime Provinces for global health experiences.  
Other Location Information | Sussex, a proudly rural farming town, is nestled in the countryside of New Brunswick, known for rolling green hills, timeless covered bridges, murals and dairy farms. The community is active with Poley Mountain skiing & snowboarding, golf, curling, and a variety of local shops & restaurants. Minutes away, there are coastal drives, rivers/lakes and hiking/walking trails. To discover more, please see <https://tourismnewbrunswick.ca/listing/town-sussex>  
  


* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 3 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Each year Dalhousie Family Medicine hosts a mandatory attendance curriculum
event - a Family Medicine Resident Education Weekend (FMREW). Attendance for
all residents from all sites is required. Further information is provided to
residents. **Time off requests will not be approved during this period
excluding extenuating circumstances. FMREW 2025 will be held at the Algonquin
Resort in St. Andrews, NB on Wednesday, September 24 - Friday, September 26,
2025.**  
  

  
The home site is Sussex NB, with additional specialty rotations taking place
in Saint John NB. See the Clinical Learning Experiences table below for
specifics. Sussex is located approximately 70km or 45 min away from Saint
John. Residents are encouraged to live in or near the community of Sussex. A
driver's license and own vehicle are essential for this site. Mileage is
reimbursed in accordance with the Maritimes Resident Doctors Collective
Agreement.

Family Medicine residents take a lead role in patient care in both family
medicine and specialty rotations and have listed the strengths of the program
as: Preceptor model, committed family medicine teachers, large number and
variety of patients, continuity of care, family medicine inpatient care,
palliative care, family medicine obstetrics, information technology, large
tertiary care hospital, strong, busy rural sites, variety of medical learners,
robust emergency medicine research program and POCUS program, and educational
opportunities.

**PGY1 Rotations  **

The ﬁrst year of the program provides a solid basis in family medicine with
role modelling and clinical experiences that integrate family medicine and
emergency medicine in both rural and urban settings.

**PGY1 Clinical Learning Experiences**  

**  Placements** | **Duration** | **Location/Notes**  
---|---|---  
Intro to Family Medicine |  4 weeks |  Comprised of info sessions on the program/site, academic curriculum sessions, simulation exercises, and clinic experience in a preceptor's office.  
Core Family Medicine   |  8 weeks |  Core experience in office-based family medicine in the community of Sussex. Includes scheduled time to complete shifts in the Sussex Health Centre emergency department (1x/week), in-patient care, and family medicine call, along with other 1/2 day clinical experiences in psychiatry in nearby Saint John, and weekly core family medicine curriculum sessions.  
Emergency Medicine   |  4 weeks |  Core experience at the Saint John Regional Hospital (SJRH) Emergency Department ; combination of day, evening and night shifts, as well as weekly learner simulation sessions.  
General Medicine |  8 weeks |  Specialty rotation at the Saint John Regional Hospital, including Internal Medicine Teaching Unit in-hospital care, as well as consultation services to emergency department.  
General Surgery |  4 weeks |  Specialty rotation at the Saint John Regional Hospital, including operating room, wards, consultation services to the SJRH ED, and clinics (including minor procedures, breast evaluation, proctology)  
Geriatric Medicine |  4 weeks |  Speciality rotation at the Saint John Regional Hospital and St. Joseph’s Hospital. Includes inpatient geriatrics consultation service, inpatient geriatrics assessment care, and outpatient clinics.  
Obstetrics/Gynecology |  4 weeks | Specialty rotation at the Saint John Regional Hospital, including Labour & Birth Unit at SJRH, operating room, wards, and emergency consults at SJRH ED.  
Orthopaedics |  4 weeks |  Specialty rotation at the Saint John Regional Hospital, including clinics at SJRH, operating room, wards, and consultation services to the emergency department at SJRH.  
Pediatrics |  4 weeks |  Specialty rotation at the Saint John Regional Hospital, including clinics, in-patient care and emergency consults at SJRH ED.  
Community Family Medicine |  8 weeks |  Core experience in the community of Sussex. Residents will do comprehensive family medicine including office visits, inpatient care, and family medicine call, as well as shifts in the Sussex Health Centre Emergency Department.    
Vacation |  4 weeks |  Scheduled at residents' request  
  


**PGY2 Rotations**  

The PGY2 year solidiﬁes the core family medicine competencies and starts to
integrate the enhanced skills in emergency medicine. This model of
longitudinal experience allows the resident to consolidate skills and
knowledge. This is especially true with the core family medicine experience in
which the resident will also complete clinical experiences in plastic surgery.
This structure allows the resident to apply the specialty-based enhanced
skills to their family medicine experiences (and vice versa) in a more
thorough and immediate way than can be experienced by those residents whose
specialty training is separate from their family medicine experience.

In addition to providing a better method of learning; this structure also
models the residents' desired pattern of practice which will focus on family
medicine with enhanced skills in emergency and acute care.



**Placements** | **Duration** | **Location/Notes**  
---|---|---  
Cardiac Care Unit |  4 weeks |  Specialty rotation at the Saint John Regional Hospital's New Brunswick Heart Centre. Includes in-patient care, clinics, code team leadership, and emergency consultation service at SJRH.  
Core Family Medicine |  16 weeks |  Core experience in office-based family medicine in the community of Sussex, including shifts in the Sussex Health Centre Emergency Department, inpatient care, family medicine call, and half-day clinical experience in plastic surgery at the Saint John Regional Hospital, as well as weekly core family medicine curriculum.  
Prenatal Care & Gynecological Health |  4 weeks |  Family medicine clinic-based rotation including  Family Medicine Prenatal Clinic, Women’s Health & Pap Clinic, gynecology clinics, sexual health clinics, contraception, urology wellness clinic, as well as on-call experience in the Labour & Birth Unit and emergency consults at SJRH ED.  
Pediatric Emergency Medicine |  4 weeks |  Pediatric emergency medicine at the IWK Health Centre inHalifax, Nova Scotia.  
Community Family Medicine |  16 weeks |  Core experience in the community of Sussex. Residents will do comprehensive family medicine including office visits, inpatient care, and family medicine call, as well as shifts in the Sussex Health Centre Emergency Department.   
Emergency Medicine |  4 weeks |  Core experience at the Saint John Regional Hospital (SJRH) Emergency Department; combination of day, evening and night shifts, as well as weekly learner simulation sessions.  
Elective(s) |  4 weeks |     
  Vacation |    4 weeks |    Scheduled at residents’ request  
  


**PGY3 Rotations**

In the third year of this program, there is a greater focus on consolidating
skills in emergency medicine and family medicine. Residents spend more time in
the emergency department, and continue to return to their core family medicine
practice in Sussex.

**PGY3 Clinical Learning Experiences**  

 Placements | Duration | Location/Notes  
---|---|---  
Emergency Medicine |  16 weeks |  Core experience at the Saint John Regional Hospital (SJRH) Emergency Department; combination of day, evening and night shifts, as well as weekly learner simulation sessions. Includes two weeks of intensive emergency procedural skills & critical care simulation.  
Core Family Medicine |  8 weeks |  Core experience in office-based family medicine in the community of Sussex, including shifts in the Sussex Health Centre Emergency Department, inpatient care, family medicine call, and half-day clinical experience in orthopedics at the Saint John Regional Hospital.  
Intensive Care Unit |  4 weeks |  Specialty rotation at the Saint John Regional Hospital, including inpatient critical care medicine and emergency department consultation service.  
Critical Care Selective |  4 weeks |  Residents may choose between an additional experience in Intensive Care Unit or Cardiac Care Unit.  
Palliative Care |  4 weeks |    Specialty rotation at the Saint John Regional Hospital, including in-patient care on the Palliative Care Unit, in-hospital consultation service, Hospice care, home consultations and emergency consultation service.  
Community Family Medicine and Emergency Medicine |    6 weeks |  Core experience in the community of Sussex. Residents will do comprehensive family medicine including office visits, inpatient care, and family medicine call, as well as shifts in the Sussex Health Centre Emergency Department.  Residents will do approximately two days per week in family medicine and three shifts per week in the emergency department.  
Anesthesia |  2 weeks |  Including operating room experience and on-call services  
Trauma Selective |  4 weeks |  Experience in Trauma team leader and trauma procedural skills  
Elective(s) |  4 weeks |     
Vacation |  4 weeks |  Scheduled at residents' request  
  


* * *

# Training Sites

SITE INFORMATION

Representatives from each of the ten sites, including residents, look forward
to meeting you and introducing you to their community and our program.

_**Annapolis Valley - Monica Cumby**_

(902) 679-2657 Ext. 3300

[monica.cumby@nshealth.ca](mailto:monica.cumby@nshealth.ca)



**_Cape Breton - Inverness Site  - Natasha Phillips_**

(902) 258-1932

[natasha.phillips@nshealth.ca](mailto:natasha.phillips@nshealth.ca)



_**Cape Breton - Sydney -  Lorna Jardin**_

(902) 567-8055

[lorna.jardine@nshealth.ca](mailto:lorna.jardine@nshealth.ca)  
  

_**Cape Breton -  Integrated Family Medicine Emergency Medicine Program -
Jacquie Heading**_

(902) 567-7496

[jacquie.heading@nshealth.ca](mailto:medicaleducationcb@nshealth.ca)  



_**Fredericton -  Jolene Kazic**_

(506) 452-5705

[fmresidency.fredericton@dal.ca](mailto:melissa.pratt@nshealth.ca)



_**Halifax and South Shore - Site Administrator**_

(902) 473-4744

[fmresidency.halifax@dal.ca](mailto:fmresidency.halifax@dal.ca)



**_Miramichi -  Tara Black  
_**

(506) 623-3357

[tara.black@horizonNB.ca ](mailto:tara.black@horizonNB.ca)



**_Moncton - Susan Gallant  
_**

(506) 857-5660

[fmresidency.moncton@dal.ca](mailto:fmresidency.moncton@dal.ca)



_**North Nova - Glenda Gilliland** _

(902) 890-5603

[glenda.gilliland@nshealth.ca](mailto:glenda.gilliland@nshealth.ca)



_**Prince Edward Island - Verna McInnis  
**_

(902) 894-2536

[fmresidency.pei@dal.ca](mailto:fmresidency.pei@dal.ca)



**_Saint John Site and SJ Integrated Family Medicine Emergency Medicine
Program - Joan Wilkins_**

(506) 649-2582

[fmresidency.saintjohn@dal.ca](mailto:fmresidency.saintjohn@dal.ca)



_**South West Nova - Heather Blackler  
**_

(902) 742-3542 Ext. 1690

[fmresidency.swn@dal.ca](mailto:fmresidency.swn@dal.ca)

_ _

* * *

# Additional Information

The 1st (first) iteration will encompass various streams. You must be a
Canadian Citizen or Permanent Resident of Canada to apply to the streams. One
stream will be for Canadian Medical School Graduates (CMG) who have not had
previous post-MD/clinical training. The second stream will be open to
International Medical School Graduates (IMG) who have not had previous
Canadian post-MD/clinical training. There will be IMG positions available at
each of the following teaching sites: Annapolis Valley, Cape Breton, Halifax,
North Nova, South West Nova in Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island and Moncton
and Saint John in New Brunswick.

**All international medical school graduates matching  in the first iteration
will be required to sign a return of service contract with the Ministry of
Health.  The return for service contract for the position in Prince Edward
Island will be in Prince Edward Island; for the positions in Annapolis Valley,
Cape Breton, South West Nova, North Nova, and Halifax will be in Nova Scotia;
and the positions in Saint John and Moncton will be in New Brunswick--all in
Family Medicine.**

The application requirements for International Medical School Graduates
applying in both the first and second iteration are the same.



**Important Deadline for Site Selection:  
** Please note that the deadline for adding or dropping a site to your list of
choices is _**February 3, 2025**_. Be sure to finalize your site preferences
before this date, as no changes can be made after the deadline.

* * *

# FAQ

_**How can I find out more about the program?**_

We encourage you to contact any of the Associate Chief Residents in our
program. Email addresses are available through our web site
[http://fmr.medicine.dal.ca](http://fmr.medicine.dal.ca/residents.htm)

**_  
How do I get more information about scheduling electives?_**

Undergraduate electives are offered in all areas of Family Medicine. Contact
the Dalhousie Family Medicine Education office at
[dfm.undergrad@dal.ca](mailto:dfm.undergrad@dal.ca) if you are interested in
arranging an undergraduate elective._**  
  
  
Am I required to have a vehicle?**_

Successful candidates are required to have a reliable form of transportation
for commuting to **all**  clinical rotations and educational experiences.
Please note, public transit is not available in all regions across the
Maritime provinces and therefore may not be a feasible option for travelling
to the various locations where clinical and educational experiences take
place.

_**  
  
What is the current resident contract like?**_

Visit the Maritime Resident Doctors website at
[www.maritimeresidentdoctors.ca](https://www.maritimeresidentdoctors.ca/)

_**  
  
Do Residents travel extensively?**_

Travel is determined by the choices residents make for electives and range
from extensive to minimal.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27219?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27219