#  Queen’s University - Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology - Kingston

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on February 19, 2025

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Christine Orr  

Address Pathology and Molecular Medicine  
Kingston General Hospital  
76 Stuart Street  
Kingston, Ontario, K7L 2V7  

Work  (613) 533-6666

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Departmental Website ](https://pathology.queensu.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Micheline McDonald

Title: Program Administrator

Email: micheline.mcdonald@queensu.ca

Phone: 613-533-2850

  

Name: Dr. Christine Orr

Title: Program Director

Email: Christine.Orr@Kingstonhsc.ca

Phone: 613-533-2850

  

Name: Dr. Ami Wang

Title: Assistant Program Director

Email: ami.wang@kingstonhsc.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Pre-residency Orientation Programs**

All IMG candidates accepted to all residency programs will be required to
complete either the Pre-Residency Program (PRP) or the Pre-Residency Program
for Family Medicine (PRPFM) prior to entering into a residency program.
Matched IMGs will be expected to attend these programs in Toronto, several
weeks in advance of the start of their residency program. In some cases, this
may result in a delay of the start date of the residency. Additional
information on the PRP and PRP FM programs can be found at the following link:
[Touchstone
Institute](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.touchstoneinstitute.ca%2F&data=05%7C01%7Cdj6%40queensu.ca%7Ce51b0f1cd3e14900b29608db9ffdba29%7Cd61ecb3b38b142d582c4efb2838b925c%7C1%7C0%7C638279684443962867%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=nOdWTPW4lY5Glu0OHgZOcxeQr4SMppL%2FrOkBrPf2edo%3D&reserved=0).

****Assessment Verification Period****

All IMG candidates accepted to residency training programs will be required to
undergo an Assessment Verification Period (AVP). This assessment period is
normally 12 weeks in length and is required by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Ontario to obtain an educational license to enter a residency
program. [CPSO – International Medical Graduates
(IMGs)](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cpso.on.ca%2FPhysicians%2FRegistration%2FInternational-
Medical-
Graduates&data=05%7C01%7Cdj6%40queensu.ca%7Ce51b0f1cd3e14900b29608db9ffdba29%7Cd61ecb3b38b142d582c4efb2838b925c%7C1%7C0%7C638279684443962867%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=ZHkMXUvdXBPRump7y%2BTd4uQ0f4u9YXom6lt7cM70n0Q%3D&reserved=0).

IMGs that have failed an AVP and are reapplying through CaRMS are ineligible
to apply for training in the same specialty in Ontario but may apply to a
different specialty in the first and/or second iteration. IMGs who have
withdrawn from a program prior to completion of an AVP must declare so upon
application.

As education innovators, we implemented CBME two years prior to our national
peers enabling us to develop experience and expertise in this training model.  

We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted candidates’ opportunities
to arrange and complete electives and would like to reassure you that a lack
of elective activity this year will not negatively impact your application to
our program

Please refer to the 'Restrictions' section of the [Ontario eligibility
criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/) for messaging regarding COVID-19 vaccination requirements.

**EDIIA Institutional Statement:**

The goal of resident selection is to identify trainees likely to succeed both
in training and, once out in practice, in meeting the health care needs of
patients and Canadian society.  We know that having a physician workforce that
reflects the demographics of the patients that they serve improves health care
outcomes.  There are many populations within Canada under-represented in
medicine (UIM) with a paucity of health care practitioners who are Black,
Indigenous, Persons of Colour, 2SLGBTQ+, from lower socioeconomic backgrounds
and/or with disabilities, and other under-represented in medicine (UIM)
groups. Diversity within training programs has also been shown to improve
training environments.  Queen’s University PGME is strongly committed to
diversity and inclusion within its community for these reasons as well as
being part of the solution to address historic and contemporary inequities.

**Equity and diversity**

We welcome diversity among our trainees and seek to foster an environment that
is welcoming to all, regardless of gender identity, race, religion, or sexual
orientation.

We are committed to advancing equitable and inclusive practices.  Please refer
to the [PGME website](https://meds.queensu.ca/academics/postgraduate/faculty-
staff/applicant-selection) for additional information / resources including
[QHS EDIIA Initiatives](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi) and [EDIIA
statements](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi/accessibility-
statements) (Indigenous Land Acknowledgement, Anti-Discrimination Statement,
Inclusion Statement, and Statement on Social Accountability)

**Gaps in Training, Remediation, or Professionalism issues**

Please address any gaps in training, remediation, or professionalism issues in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count.

* * *

# Return of Service

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  



The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.



More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

** **

**If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health
at**[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)

** **

_**PLEASE NOTE: YOU ARE REQUIRED TO FULFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**_

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Please note that due to the volume of applications our program receives we are
not able to provide individual feedback to applicants who are not successful
in the match.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Alternative proof of language proficiency  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Language assessment document accepted:  TOEFL-iBT, TOEFL-iBT Home Edition
accepted**

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid by (not expired) up to July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section
  * The **TOEFL iBT Home Edition**  will be accepted as a substitute for the TOEFL iBT.

**Language assessment document accepted:**  **IELTS Academic**

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid by (not expired) up to July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:**  7 in each of the four skills in the same sitting
  * The **IELTS Indicator**  will be accepted as a substitute for the Academic Version of the IELTS

**Language assessment document accepted:  Occupational English Test (OET) -
Medicine**

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid by (not expired) up to July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General**

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid by (not expired) up to July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum score of 9 in each of the four skills in the same setting

**Language assessment document accepted:**  **Letter of language proficiency**

Letter of language proficiency is a letter from your Dean attesting that your
medical school program of instruction was completed solely in English or
French.

**Language assessment document accepted:**  **FAIMER / World Directory of
Medical Schools**

Candidates can submit a printout from the [World Directory of Medical
Schools](http://www.wdoms.org/) (FAIMER) **which clearly states** that the
language of instruction is English or French.



Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site. Please
review specific program descriptions for more information.

Examinations

Required

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

The NAC exam results must be submitted if the candidate has written it.  

* Candidates must have PASSED the NAC exam or MCCQE Part 2 exam. 



MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report
* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

IMGs must have written and PASSED the Medical Council of Canada Qualifying
Examination Part 1 (MCCQE1)

IMGs must have written and passed the Medical Council of Canada Qualifying
Examination Part 1 (MCCQE1)



Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three reference letters are required, preferably written by faculty.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1750

  

Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology Candidates are requested to submit with
their application a personal letter (max. 1750 word count) outlining how
Anatomical Pathology is a good fit for them, their Diagnostic and Molecular
Pathology experiences as well as their career goals.

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Documents that are not in English must be accompanied by a notarized
translation. Students applying in the last year of medical school will need to
submit their most recent marks/transcripts, and will need to provide proof of
their MD to CPSO prior to the start of residency training.

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

May be provided to support application

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Virtual interviews: Monday, January 20,
2025 to Friday, January 24, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All candidates will have a virtual
introduction to the program and Meet-the-Program Director session prior to
their interview.  
Candidates will have two 20-minute interviews.  Each interview panel consists
of one faculty member and one resident.  
  
Candidates will also have the opportunity to speak with current residents (not
those interviewing) to familiarize themselves with the program from the
learners perspective.  Total expected time is 3 hrs.  Morning and afternoon
interview slots are available, except on Monday January 20, 2025, afternoon
only.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

At the end of their residency our residents will be competent Diagnostic and
Molecular Pathologists well positioned to pursue subspecialty training,
further research training or to proceed directly to clinical practice.  Our
program will continue to foster excellence in all aspects of training while
maintaining a collegial and positive work/learning environment.

Residents will be entrusted in each of the training stage specific Entrustable
Professional Activities and will have completed and communicated a scholarly
project.  This will ensure that they have sufficient capacity in all of the
CanMeds roles (Medical Expert, Collaborator, Communicator, Leader,
Professional, Advocate, Scholar et cetera).  

## Selection process goals

To develop a rank order list of applicants that reflects their likelihood of
success within our training program.  The process may consider demonstrated
academic performance, standardized examination performance, prior
elective/observership/residency experience in Pathology, research experience,
collegiality, communication skills and letters of reference.  

nb. Standardized examinations that are required include the MCCQE1 as well as
either the NAC OSCE and/or MCCQE2.  Results for all these examinations should
be submitted if the examination has been written.

nb. The program will consider the effect of COVID-19 restrictions when
assessing learners' prior Pathology experience.

nb. We welcome diversity among our trainees and seek to foster an environment
that is welcoming to all regardless of gender identity, race, religion or
sexual orientation.

## File review process

Review team composition : Program Director with interview team consultation.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  May be used, for instance to clarify entries in CaRMS application fields.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Early in the selection process evidence of experience in Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology is examined.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Performance in standardized examinations is used to assess potential ability.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We do not formally review this component.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Elements of leadership skills may be considered.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Is considered to clarify performance in undergraduate clinical training experiences.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology and likelihood of success within our training program.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  May be used to clarify entries in CaRMS application fields.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research experience is considered. Authorship in a peer-reviewed article is highly valued.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance.   
Other file component(s) |  Early in the selection process evidence of experience in Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology and performance in standardized examinations (NAC OSCE, & MCCQE1) are considered. IMGs must have completed the MCCQE1. IMGs must have also completed the NAC OSCE or the MCCQE2.  
  
Any information which suggests that the resident may not be successful in our
training program will be considered.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Ideally an applicant will have completed a minimum of
four (4) weeks of training in our discipline (eg. clerkship electives,
observerships, residency training).

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  The interview may be used to clarify collaboration skills.   
Collegiality |  Ability to establish and maintain positive interpersonal interactions. Specifically assessed.   
Communication skills |  Receptive and expressive communication. Specifically assessed.   
Health advocacy |  The interview may be used to clarify health advocacy skills.   
Interest in the discipline |  Enthusiasm, awareness of and commitment to Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology. Specifically assessed.   
Interest in the program |  The interview may be used to clarify interest in the program.   
Leadership skills |  The interview may be used to clarify leadership skills.   
Professionalism |  Any indication of weak professional attributes will be considered.   
Scholarly activities |  The interview may be used to clarify participation in scholarly work.   
Other interview component(s) |  Any information that suggests an applicant may not be successful within our program will be considered.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology

The Department of Pathology at Queen's University offers excellent training
for individuals pursuing careers in either community hospital-based or
academic pathology.  The core programs are supported by state-of-the-art flow
cytometry, cytogenetics and molecular DNA diagnostic laboratories and training
in each of these areas is provided.  A busy regional cancer clinic is
associated with the hospital, allowing a wide range of oncology related
pathology.  Pediatric pathology is integrated in a horizontal fashion
throughout the program.  An expanding catchment area with a large consultative
service ensures an excellent mix of case material and numbers to provide a
more than adequate volume.  As a Regional Forensics Centre trainees receive
excellent training in Forensic Pathology.  A long tradition of training
Diagnostic and Molecular Pathologists at Queen's has ensured excellence and
success amongst our Residents (https://pathology.queensu.ca).



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology -- Quick Facts  
  

Opportunities for interprovincial and international electives while training.

Surgical specimens number approximately 30,000 per year; autopsy cases number
approximately 450 per year. Cytology cases number approximately 12,000 cases
per year.

Access to electronic medical resources provided

Please see below for training and research

  
  

Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology

  
The training program is organized into four stages, (transition to discipline,
foundations of discipline, core of discipline and transition to practice) and
progression through the stages occurs after the trainee demonstrates
competence in specific professional activities associated with each level. The
competency based approach provides frequent low-stakes formative feedback so
that the learning experience can be focused to individual needs/goals. The
essence of how pathology is taught will not change, but by adopting a
competency based approach, the trainee will be assured that they are a
competent pathologist at the end of their residency ready for independent
practice or fellowship training.

  
The Department has a strong commitment to providing research training for
residents who are preparing for an academic career. Within the Department
there are numerous opportunities to work in established laboratories which are
using multidisciplinary techniques to investigate aspects of amyloidogenesis
and Alzheimer's disease, atherosclerosis, the molecular biology of cancer,
coagulation and fibrinolysis, cytogenetics and neuropathology to mention a
few. A clinician investigator program is available for residents who are keen
to pursue a graduate degree during their residency training.





Education Sessions

Our academic half-day series runs on a two year cycle such that residents have
the opportunity to revisit subjects in their senior years.  This series covers
the central topics in Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology including diagnostic
pathology in the diagnostic subspecialties, lab management and advanced
diagnostics (genetics).  In addition there are weekly micro rounds, gross
rounds, autopsy rounds, neuropathology rounds.  Also, there are regular soft
tissue and bone, renal biopsy, pediatric, liver biopsy rounds.  Journal clubs
and an annual departmental research day help develop scholarly ability.

* * *

# Training Sites

Laboratory Services are centralized for the region at the Kingston Health
Sciences Centre (Kingston General Hospital site).

* * *

# Additional Information

You are invited to attend an informal Meet-the-Resident session with the
Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology residents where you can get more
information from a current resident perspective.  There will be two available
dates and times and you are welcome to join one or both sessions.
**Registration ahead of time is required.**

When: Thursday, October 24, 2024 at 19:00 AND Sunday, October 27, 2024 at
14:00, Eastern Time (US and Canada)

To register in advance, please visit the [CanPREPP](https://canprepp.ca/
"https://canprepp.ca/") Calendar of Events.

With your registration, you will receive a confirmation email with the
information to join the meeting a few days prior to the event.

Should you have any questions or concerns or if you have not received your
confirmation within 24 hours of the event, please contact [Micheline
McDonald](mailto:micheline.mcdonald@queensu.ca?subject=PATHOLOGY%20MEET-THE-
RESIDENT%20SESSION
"mailto:micheline.mcdonald@queensu.ca?subject=pathology%20meet-the-
resident%20session"), Program Coordinator.



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27124?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27124