#  University of Ottawa - Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology - Ottawa

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2 click here

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Bibianna Purgina  

Address Pathology and Laboratory Medicine  
451 Smyth Road  
University of Ottawa  
Ottawa, Ontario, K1H 8M5  

Work  (613) 562-5422

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Anatomical Pathology Residency Program website
](https://www.uottawa.ca/faculty-medicine/pathology/pgme/anatomical-pathology)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: Anatomical Pathology program

Name: Dr. Bibianna Purgina, MD, FRCPC

Title: Program Director, Anatomical Pathology Program

Email: mlevesq2@uottawa.ca

Phone: (613) 562-5422

  

Name: Ms. Manon Levesque

Title: Program Admin: Anatomical Pathology Program

Email: mlevesq2@uottawa.ca

Phone: (613) 562-5422

  

* * *

# Important Information

**All candidates must meet the Ontario Criteria of Eligibility**  found
[here](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-criteria/provincial-
criteria/ontario/).

**COVID-19 vaccination**

Please be aware that most, if not all, hospitals in Ontario have mandatory
COVID-19 vaccination policies in place that require, in the absence of a valid
medical or human rights exemption, proof of vaccination. Acceptable
vaccination must be in accordance with Health Canada. You will be required to
provide an attestation that you meet this requirement as part of the CaRMS
application process and any actual documentation will be collected by the
appropriate institution if matched. These guidelines could change at any time
in accordance with future direction from the Ministry of Health or the
Universities based on information from Public Health.

**MCCQE (Medical Council of Canada qualifying examination) Part 1 results** :

Trainees will be required to disclose their MCCQE Part 1 examination results
**if taken** , upon entry into any of the University of Ottawa's training
programs. **Please note that the MCCQE Part 1 is  not a requirement to begin
residency.** The purpose of this disclosure is to allow for resources to be
provided to the few residents who would benefit from extra support early in
their residency in an effort to maximize their success.

**Failure to meet or provide proof of any of the stated requirements may
result in an applicant’s file not being reviewed or removed from the Rank
Order List.**



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

All candidates must meet the Ontario criteria of eligibility.





* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  * Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  * Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  * Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  * Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Candidates may wish to describe important achievements, extracurricular
activities, personal goals, during residency, etc. Maximum 500 words.

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Files are reviewed by the Program Director and a faculty member of the RPC
with final input from the Residency Program Committee.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interview process The interviews will
start with a welcome meeting with the Program Director and the Chairman of the
department. The candidates will then meet individually with the Program
Director, 2-3 faculty members of the RPC, who are members of the selection
committee and the Chief Resident on a Multiple Mini-Interview set up. The
interview process assesses the candidates CanMEDS roles (Medical knowledge,
Professionalism, Collaboration, Communication, Manager and Advocacy roles as
physicians) and the candidates' interest in the Ottawa program. The candidates
are scored on a 1-5 scale (5 being excellent) on each of these CanMEDS roles
by each members. Each interview will last about 30 minutes with each member of
the team.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

After the initial selection process, the files are sent to the program
director (PD) and the residency coordinator for their review. The candidates
are scored on a 1-5 scale (5being excellent) individually by the PD and the
program coordinator. The things that are primarily looked for in this
selection process are candidates' interest in the field, recent exposure and
experience, scholarly activities and letters of references.

## Program goals

Upon completion of training, a resident is expected to be a competent
specialist in Anatomical Pathology capable of assuming a consultant's role in
the specialty. The resident must acquire a working knowledge of the
theoretical basis of the specialty, including its foundations in the basic
medical sciences and research. Residents must demonstrate the requisite
knowledge, skills, and attitudes for effective patient-centred care and
service to a diverse population. In all aspects of specialist practice, the
graduate must be able to address issues of gender, sexual orientation, age,
culture, ethnicity and ethics in a professional manner.

At the completion of training, the resident will have acquired the following
competencies and will function effectively as a:

Medical Expert, Communicator, Collaborator, Leader, Health Advocate

## Selection process goals

The program would like to attract applicants who have a genuine interest
anatomic pathology, as evidenced by previous pathology elective rotations or
observerships, past or upcoming, with strong evaluations from pathology
electives, and at least one letter of reference from a pathologist.

The applicant should also have a groad and well-rounded medical knowledge
(strong medical school performance +/- exam scores) along with excellent
written and spoken English skills and non-verbal communication skills.
Evidence of research and teaching ability will be an asset.  Personality
attributes such as collegiality, teamwork skills, leadership skills, conflict
management ability, and time management skills as professionalism skills
(including ethics, judgement, resilience, punctuality and responsibility) are
definite assets.



## File review process

Review team composition : The Selection Committee is composed of the Program
Director, the Chief Resident and three members of the Residency Program
Committee.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We do evaluate this file component   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We do evaluate this file component   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We do evaluate this file component   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  We do evaluate this file component   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  We do evaluate this file component   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  We do evaluate this file component   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  We do evaluate this file component   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We do evaluate this file component   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We do evaluate this file component   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We do evaluate this interview component   
Collegiality |  We do evaluate this interview component   
Communication skills |  We do evaluate this interview component   
Health advocacy |  We do evaluate this interview component   
Interest in the discipline |  We do evaluate this interview component   
Interest in the program |  We do evaluate this interview component   
Leadership skills |  We do evaluate this interview component   
Professionalism |  We do evaluate this interview component   
Scholarly activities |  We do evaluate this interview component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

#  

# Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology

Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology | Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine | University of Ottawa

The program is run by a dedicated Program Director  and Department Chair who
are interested in maintaining excellence in resident education.  An
outstanding and dedicated teaching staff some of who are nationally or
internationally recognized.  The program offers a full academic day on
Mondays.  This full academic day is a built in wellness modification for our
residents.  By having a full academic day on Monday, our residents, while on
pathology services, will have every weekend off, except on the occasions that
they are covering on call.  Also on Academic Days, the residents are provided
with a light lunch during different types of educational sessions given by
staff. The program has also instituted a Pathology Retreat for residents,
which is done once a year at location outside the hospital to discuss resident
well being and include leadership, communication and collaboration development
activities. To further promote resident well-being and professionalism, the
program has developed and implemented a guideline for Professionalism and also
provides a yearly wellness fund. Various other social activities are organized
throughout the year.  We have a full day Orientation Day for PGY1 and other
residents to provide, among others, opportunity to know the program and its
structure and to meet the members of the RPC over lunch.

The program offers  travel fund to all residents (PGY2-PGY5) to go to
specialty meetings, conferences and courses with the approval of the Program
Director.  They also receive a yearly stipend for books and other learning
resources.



The program rolled out the Competency by Design on July 1st, 2019.  More
information can be found on our website at:

**https://med.uottawa.ca/pathology/education/postgraduate-medical-
education/anatomical-pathology/cbd-pathway**





* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

# Program Curriculum-Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology



The University of Ottawa provides a 5-year comprehensive training in
Diagnostic and molecular Pathology (DaMP), leading to eligibility to write the
Royal College specialty examinations and to practice as a competent
pathologist. According to the newly adapted Royal College [Competency-By-
Design (CBD) pathway](https://med.uottawa.ca/pathology/education/postgraduate-
medical-education/anatomical-pathology/cbd-pathway), the 5-year training is
divided into 4 Stages, namely, [Transition to Discipline
(TTD)](https://med.uottawa.ca/pathology/stage-transition-discipline-ttd-
pgy1),[ Foundation
(F)](https://med.uottawa.ca/pathology/education/postgraduate-medical-
education/anatomical-pathology/stage-foundations-f-pgy1), [Core
(C)](https://med.uottawa.ca/pathology/stage-core-c-pgy-2-4) and [Transition to
Practice (TTP)](https://med.uottawa.ca/pathology/stage-transition-practice-
ttp-pgy5) of the CBD pathway ([please, click for
details](https://med.uottawa.ca/pathology/education/postgraduate-medical-
education/anatomical-pathology/cbd-pathway)). Throughout the 5 years, there is
a weekly academic day (whole day Monday) dedicated to formal lectures,
seminars, and research: this is protected time for residents, i.e. no service
duties. The department annually sponsors an active visiting professor program
attracting world-class pathologists and scientists. A journal club is held
monthly. The program emphasizes heavily on the CanMEDS roles in keeping with
the newly implemented CBD-model with close monitoring of work-based practice
assessments/evaluations of residents' clinical and other academic performances
with annual Multi-Source Feedback mechanism for all residents using electronic
platforms.

The Department offers Pathology Laboratory Medicine Rounds (PALM), held every
other week for both faculty and residents. Senior residents are also expected
to actively take part in these rounds. Residents attend a number of
conferences throughout the year and are encouraged to make presentations at
national and international meetings. The [Curriculum
Map](https://med.uottawa.ca/pathology/cbd-curriculum-map-2020-2021) offers
dedicated research time, electives and in-depth exposure to subspecialties
ensuring adequate exposure to achieve the [Entrustable Professional Activities
(EPA)](https://med.uottawa.ca/pathology/education/postgraduate-medical-
education/anatomical-pathology/residents/entrustable-professional) of all the
Stages of training. The program is based on a 13-block lunar calendar, the
majority of the rotations being 2-3 blocks (each block is 4 weeks) in
duration. The residents’ progress is closely monitored by the [Clinical
Competence Committee (CCC)](https://med.uottawa.ca/pathology/terms-reference-
clinical-competence-committee-cbd) during the various rotations with graded
responsibilities and teaching sessions, and by a formal practice written &
oral examination, once a year in addition to end of rotation practice tests.
Residents are required to write the American Society of Clinical Pathology
(ASCP) Resident-In-Service-Exam (RISE) each year.

* * *

# Training Sites

## Pathology Resources

Since the Eastern Ontario Regional Laboratory Association amalgamation, the
majority of the basic anatomical pathology training, although not exclusive,
is at the General Campus with subspecialty training in cardiac and
neuropathology at the Civic Campus.  The OttawaHospital is comprised if three
campuses: General, Civic and Riverside.  The General and Civic campuses are
both active treatment hospitals of 850 and 530 beds, respectively.  The
workload per year at the OttawaHospital consists of approx. 40, 000-50, 000
surgicals, 200 autopsies, 600 Forensic Pathology Autopsies and 20, 000-25, 000
Cytology specimens.  The Children’s Hospital of EasternOntario opened in 1974,
and is the major university facility for training in pediatrics and pediatric
pathology.

All three hospitals have modern molecular diagnostics facilities, as well as,
computers with access to the internet, web-based hospital health records,
radiology images and Lab reports.  Dragon voice recognition software is used
for dictation of reports.  Digital imaging facilities are readily available.

The department has excellent facilities for routine and special stains,
electron microscopy, and a wide array of immunopathology methods and reagents.
There is extensive automation of technical procedures.  Comprehensive services
are offered in medical biochemistry, medical microbiology, and hematology as
befits a large tertiary care centre.  The Ottawa Regional Cancer Centre is
based at the General Campus, and this provides a large base of referral
material from Eastern Ontario and Western Quebec.  There is close
collaboration with the department of medical genetics that is based at the
Children’s Hospital.  Major institutions that have a bearing on resident
education is summarized below:

  * The Ottawa Hospital-General Campus, an 850 bed general hospital
  * The Ottawa Hospital-Civic Campus, a 530 bed general hospital
  * University of Ottawa Heart Institute
  * Children’s Hospital of Eastern Ontario, a 150 bed children’s hospital
  * Ottawa Centre of the Canadian Red Cross Blood Transfusion Service
  * Public Health Laboratory
  * Private Laboratory



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26784?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26784