#  University of Alberta - Nuclear Medicine - Edmonton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Alexander Tamm  

Address Nuclear Medicine  
Walter C Mackenzie Health Sciences Centre  
8440-112 Street  
Edmonton, Alberta, T6G 2B7  

Work  (780) 407- 2787

Work  (780) 407- 6810

Websites of Interest [ Nuclear Medicine/Diagnostic Radiology Residency Program
](https://www.ualberta.ca/radiology-and-diagnostic-
imaging/programs/postgraduate-residency-programs/nuclear-medicine-residency-
program/index.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Kamani Reddy

Title: Program Assistant

Email: nucmed@ualberta.ca

Phone: 780-407-2787

780-407-6810

  

Name: Dr. Alexander Tamm

Title: Program Director

Email: astamm@ualberta.ca

Phone: 7804076810

  

* * *

# Important Information

**CASPER Requirement**

All applicants to our residency program at the University of Alberta are
required to complete the CASPER (Computer-Based Assessment for Sampling
Personal Characteristics) test, to assist with our selection process.
Successful completion of CASPER is mandatory in order to maintain admission
eligibility. CASPER is an open-response, situational judgment test that
evaluates aspects of applicants’ social intelligence and professionalism such
as ethics, empathy, problem-solving and collaboration. For more information on
the test, go to
[https://takealtus.com/casper/.](https://takealtus.com/casper/) CASPER scores
are only valid for a single admissions cycle and for the test type for which
you have taken the test. For example, if an applicant took the Canadian Post
Graduate Medical Education test for the CaRMS Round 1 match, the same CASPER
score will be considered for the Round 2 match.

Your CASPER assessment result is sent directly to our program/CaRMS from
Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights permission to
share your results with CaRMS.

* * *

# Return of Service

There are no return of service requirements at the University of Alberta.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Please see the Alberta [provincial
criteria.](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/)

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) are required to provide proof of
English language proficiency as determined by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) who completed their medical education in
Quebec or at the University of Ottawa (French Stream) are required to provide
proof of English language proficiency as determined by the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

CMGs who completed their medical education at the University of Ottawa must
indicate on their application which stream they completed (either French or
English).

_For more information on the CPSA English language requirements, please visit
the  [CPSA website](https://cpsa.ca/physicians/registration/english-language-
proficiency/)._

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three reference letters are required. Additional letters will not be
considered. Please consider your referees carefully and ensure they can attest
to your clinical knowledge, interpersonal skills, work ethic, attitude and
other qualities. Canadian references are encouraged. Letters from residents
will not be accepted. References do not need to be from our institution or
discipline.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

A personal letter must be submitted, not to exceed 500 words. Your personal
letter should help us to get to know you. It should also answer the following:

\- Why you have chosen diagnostic Nuclear Medicine as your professional
career.

\- What personal attributes you have which will be suitable to a career in
nuclear medicine.

\- What your expectations of nuclear medicine training are, and what aspects
of our program are important to you.

Custom Résumé / CV

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

All applicants must submit an undergraduate transcript.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held on January 20, 21,
and 22, during the national interview period.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews are required and are
program initiated. Candidates selected for interviews will be contacted as per
the CaRMS schedule.  
  
All interviews will be conducted virtually. Each interview consists of two or
three sessions (each approximately 15-30 minutes in length) with separate
panels of radiologists and residents in the program. Each candidate will have
the opportunity to meet with the program director.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates will be selected on the basis of individual merit. Applicants
should demonstrate strong academic performance, a positive attitude, and good
interpersonal and communication skills. The program is seeking enthusiastic,
hard-working, and motivated applicants who function well in a team setting and
exhibit an aptitude for diagnostic imaging and a specific interest in nuclear
medicine.

## Program goals

The aim of the University of Alberta Nuclear Medicine and Diagnostic Radiology
Residency Program is to teach residents the knowledge, skills, and attitudes
required to function as a safe, competent, and independent consultant in the
specialties of Nuclear Medicine and Diagnostic Radiology. This includes the
ability to supervise, advise on, perform, and interpret imaging procedures at
a high standard, functioning as a capable consultant to referring family
physicians and specialists alike. Residents will obtain the communication
skills, knowledge, and technical skills required of such a consultant and will
be taught to develop a personal education strategy to help establish a habit
of continuous learning. The importance of the team approach to the provision
of imaging services will be emphasized throughout the residency. Residents
will develop the knowledge, skills, and attitudes relating to critical
appraisal, research methodology, data presentation, and analysis pertinent to
Nuclear Medicine and Radiology. They will also learn to practice ethically,
consistent with the obligations and attitudes of a physician respectful and
sensitive to culture, ethnicity, and gender.

Our program mandate is to support and foster education, research, quality
assurance, and continuing professional development. We seek to engender the
same sense of responsibility in our residents towards the specialties of
Nuclear Medicine and Diagnostic Radiology at large, ensuring a healthy,
thriving discipline that is responsive to the needs of the public and our
clinical colleagues. To that end, we are committed to providing our residents
with the expertise and resources necessary to achieve these goals.

## Selection process goals

The goal of the selection process is to identify successful applicants who
demonstrate the attributes needed to acquire the knowledge, skills, and
attitudes required to eventually function as a safe, competent, and
independent consultant in the specialties of Nuclear Medicine and Diagnostic
Radiology. These skills include effective communication, knowledge
acquisition, problem-solving, and continuous learning. Successful applicants
require above-average visual learning ability as excellent visual detection
and visual memory skills are necessary for success in diagnostic imaging.
Applicants should have sufficient hand-eye coordination and visual-spatial
abilities to acquire the technical skills required to perform basic
interventional diagnostic imaging procedures such as drainages and biopsies.
Applicants should be comfortable learning in a computer and technology-driven
environment. Applicants must be self-motivated to learn independently and
exhibit good collaborative and interpersonal skills which will allow them to
function well in a team. Applicants should possess attitudes fostering
respect, cooperation, and patient-centered care. The Program values applicants
who demonstrate a high level of honesty, integrity, and professionalism.  

## File review process

Review team composition : The file review team is comprised of selected
members of the Residency Program Committee and CaRMS interview committee

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
Average ~20/yr

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Achievements, Extra-curricular activities, Volunteerism, Leadership, Organization, Structure, Professionalism.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Rotations and accompanying evaluations.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Computer-Based Assessment for Sampling Personal Characteristics (CASPer).   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Activities, Roles, and Duration.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Review leadership positions both before and during medical school.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Performance and grades.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Answering the prompts. Communication skills. Professionalism.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Comments, answers to prompts and strength of endorsement.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Involvement, Publications, Presentations.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Courses, Marks.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Our program does not favour residents who do electives at our site or numerous
electives in our specialty. We consider and value applicants with broad
clinical experiences

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evaluated   
Collegiality |  Evaluated   
Communication skills |  Evaluated   
Health advocacy |  Evaluated   
Interest in the discipline |  Evaluated   
Interest in the program |  Evaluated   
Leadership skills |  Evaluated   
Professionalism |  Evaluated   
Scholarly activities |  Evaluated   
Other interview component(s) |  The interview may contain an evaluation of visual detection and visual-spatial skills.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

State-of-the-art and diverse nuclear medicine practice and equipment,
including three clinical, digital PET/CT facilities and six clinical SPECT/CT
facilities in the training program (including tertiary care, cancer, and
community centers).

Full integration with the diagnostic radiology program.

The ratio of residents to faculty is dependent on the various rotations. With
respect to the total nuclear medicine faculty, the ratio of residents to
faculty in the nuclear medicine training phase is roughly 1 to 3.

Robust resident experience in busy ambulatory outpatient clinics.

There are no mandatory rural rotations.

Active, enthusiastic Residency Program Committee that includes diverse gender
and ethnic representation. The RPC includes 2-3 resident representatives and
is very receptive to resident-driven changes.  There are multiple staff
representatives as well as a dedicated RPC staff Wellness Representative to
ensure resident wellness is considered in all program initiatives.

Residents are provided fully funded online resources such as StatDx,
RadPrimer, and IMAIOS e-anatomy and Sonosim. Needs assessment surveys are
conducted on an annual basis to ensure we are continually meeting the evolving
learning needs of our residents and that our resources are optimally utilized.
Funding for the American Institute for Radiologic Pathology (AIRP) course in
Washington, D.C, International Society of Clinical Densitometry, and another
major radiology meeting (major radiology meeting or review course) is provided
for all residents.

The clinical faculty consists of approximately 100+ radiologists at the
teaching hospitals and is composed of both subspecialty radiologists in all of
the major disciplines (pediatric radiology, chest radiology, musculoskeletal
radiology, neuroradiology, body imaging, vascular/interventional radiology,
cardiac imaging, and nuclear medicine) and community radiologists. The nuclear
medicine faculty also have subspecialty training in every major body system.

A huge referral base, including northern Alberta and parts of British
Columbia, ensures a large volume of adult and pediatric cases with diverse
pathology.  Residents are exposed to the full range of imaging modalities and
techniques in all areas of medicine.

Province-wide electronic healthcare record system (NetCare and ConnectCare)
allowing patient information, lab results, operative reports and diagnostic
imaging to be accessed from sites across Alberta and with remote access (e.g.,
through a mobile device or at home).

All imaging at the major teaching hospitals and community hospitals is digital
with a state-of-the-art Picture Archiving and Communication System (PACS)
networked across all of these hospitals, and voice-recognition reporting
systems in place at all sites. The PACS is integrated across Alberta.

Residents have ample opportunity to be involved in the teaching of junior
colleagues, off-service residents, and medical students as much as they would
like.

Two dedicated nuclear medicine academic half-days: one clinical and one basic
science/physics. Dedicated anatomy teaching with the Division of Anatomy and
review sessions. In addition to the daily radiology resident rounds, there are
weekly Nuclear Medicine Interesting Case Rounds. Grand rounds are scheduled
weekly at the University Hospital and Royal Alexandra Hospital. Journal Club
and Visiting Professor Series take place year-round.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 7 years.

Program length of training exceeds the Royal College or College of Family
Physicians of Canada standard.

**Curriculum**

At the University of Alberta, all candidates accepted into the Nuclear
Medicine program will be given the opportunity to do combined training in
Nuclear Medicine and Diagnostic Radiology, leading to full Royal College
certification in both specialties.  In combined training, the candidate will
write the Royal College examinations for Diagnostic Radiology after four
continuous years of radiology training (PGY2-5).  Nuclear medicine training
includes six months training between PGY3 and PGY5, as well as 24 months
training in PGY6 and PGY7.  The candidate will write the Royal College
examinations in Nuclear Medicine in PGY7.

Our program successfully transitioned to CBD in accordance with the national
schedule as of July 1, 2020.​ Our program will continue to undergo the same
rigorous accreditation process as traditional programs.

The combined Nuclear Medicine training program provides the resident with
training in all aspects of Nuclear Medicine and Diagnostic Radiology and is
designed to satisfy current standards of good clinical practice, to prepare
the trainee for future academic pursuit, and to meet the requirements of the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada for both specialties. The
program is primarily based at the University of Alberta Hospital and Royal
Alexandra Hospital. Diagnostic (including PET/CT) and therapeutic nuclear
medicine for oncology is taught at the Cross Cancer Institute.  Residents also
participate in the nuclear medicine services of the Grey Nuns and Misericordia
Community hospitals.  Ambulatory/Out-Patient rotations are offered at private
clinics in Edmonton.

Please see Diagnostic Radiology at the University of Alberta for more
information on the Radiology component of the combined program.



**Seminars**

In addition to daily Radiology rounds:

  * Weekly didactic seminars in Basic Science and Clinical Nuclear Medicine (TWO academic half-days per week)
  * Weekly Nuclear Medicine interesting case rounds-
  * Regular Journal Clubs
  * Radiology and Diagnostic Imaging Grand Rounds
  * Dedicated small group anatomy lab teaching/dissections
  * Nuclear medicine review course

**Research and Audit**

During their training, Combined Nuclear Medicine/Diagnostic Radiology
residents must complete one nuclear medicine research project between PGY2 and
PGY4.  The timing and scope of the project is analogous to the research
requirements for radiology residents in their four year training program.
During the same time frame, the resident is expected to complete an audit
project.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

  * University of Alberta Hospital
  * Royal Alexandra Hospital
  * Cross Cancer Institute
  * Grey Nuns Community Hospital 
  * Misericordia Community Hospital
  * Edmonton Radiopharmaceutical Centre and Medical Isotope and Cyclotron Facility
  * Community Hospitals (Sturgeon, Strathcona Community Hospitals)
  * Various Outpatient Diagnostic Imaging Clinics

Electronic resources:

There are widespread computer facilities with internet access. This includes
online access to the various health databases as well as electronic journals,
through a number of channels within Alberta Health Services and the University
of Alberta. Our own academic film library is reasonably state of the art, with
very good capacity for digital image processing and presentation capability.
Residents will also be trained on multiple different electronic image
processing and review platforms.

* * *

# Additional Information

**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)**

The University of Alberta recognizes the importance of diversity, equity,
inclusivity, decolonization, and indigenization (EDIDI) and is committed to
the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry’s policy on anti-racism. Further, the
University is committed to implementing the Truth and Reconciliation
Commission calls to action that are relevant to education and medicine. The
pursuit of diversity and equitable opportunities is a core value that guides
our selection practices.

The University encourages applications from underrepresented groups, including
Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women,
persons of a minority gender identity or sexual orientation, and individuals
who would contribute to the diversity of the medical community. The CaRMS
Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) is an optional form that candidates
can fill out.

Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism in residency
selection, but is currently not using the CSIQ as part of our application
process. We are using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable
opportunities for all applicants.

* * *

# FAQ

**What distinguishes the U of A program from other programs?**

Dual training in two Royal College specialties is uncommon and highly sought
after.  The scope, volume and breadth of cases seen in our program is
exceptional.  Our equipment is state-of-the-art, including access to digital
PET/CT, PET/MRI, and SPECT/CT at multiple facilities.  Our philosophy of
combined nuclear medicine and radiology training puts us in step with the
current clinical and technological evolution of the specialty.

**What is your program’s orientation and focus?**

To produce a well-trained, modern nuclear medicine physician with a strong
general imaging background, capable of practicing state-of-the-art nuclear
medicine. That specialist will also be a certified radiologist.

**What is the on-call schedule during residency?**

During the nuclear medicine phase of the combined training, the resident
typically takes nuclear medicine call for 1 in 8 weekends. In PGY2 through
PGY5, residents complete radiology resident call (generally, a combination of
night float and evening shifts).

**Are there sufficient elective opportunities during training to explore your
special interests?**

Yes. Flexible electives at home and abroad are possible. In particular, the
last few months of residency are designed to provide residents with
flexibility to pursue electives in areas of special interest and to prepare
them for their future career.

**For more information and FAQs  about the program, please follow the below
link:**

[Nuclear Medicine Program FAQ](https://www.ualberta.ca/en/radiology-and-
diagnostic-imaging/programs/postgraduate-residency-programs/nuclear-medicine-
residency-program/index.html#:~:text=FREQUENTLY%20ASKED%20QUESTIONS)

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27348?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27348