#  McGill University - Pediatrics - Montreal  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Regular Stream for All  

##  Last approved on November 01, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 6

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Najma Ahmed  

Address Pediatrics  
Montreal Children's Hospital  
1001 Decarie, Room B-RC-6035.1  
Montreal , Quebec, H4A 3J1  

Work

Websites of Interest [ General Pediatrics Program Website
](https://www.mcgill.ca/peds/education-
training/pgme/programs/generalpediatrics/residencyprogram)  
[ Montreal Children's Hospital ](http://www.thechildren.com)  
[ Postgraduate Medical Education Office
](http://www.medicine.mcgill.ca/postgrad/ )  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Alessandra Tedeschi

Title: Student Affairs Advisor

Email: pediatrics-residency.med@mcgill.ca

  

Name: Vanessa Vescio

Title: Student Affairs Advisor

Email: pediatrics-residency2.med@mcgill.ca

  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

Join our information sessions to learn more about the McGill General
Pediatrics Residency Program with the opportunity to ask your questions to our
residents, chief residents and Program Director. For details and the Zoom link
click here: <https://www.mcgill.ca/pgme/events>.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP must be submitted with each application.  
EITHER:

  * A copy of Canadian Birth Certificate or a copy of Certificate of Canadian Citizenship

OR

  * A copy of Permanent Resident Card (copy of both sides of the card) OR a copy of an IMM 5292, IMM 1000, IMM 5688;   
NB: the Permanent Resident card can be expired.

OR

  * A copy of Citizenship Card (copy of both sides of the card)

P.S: the passport is not an acceptable proof of citizenship.

Each year, all candidates applying in a CaRMS match must provide proof of
valid current citizenship or permanent resident status. As of the 2021 R-1
match cycle, CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate
the citizenship/legal status verification, which is usually completed by
Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) offices.

if an applicant has had their citizenship/legal status documentation verified
by any of the following organizations for the current R-1 match, the applicant
will not be required to assign a proof of citizenship/PR document (as pictured
in the screenshot below).

  * Medical Council of Canada ([MCC](https://mcc.ca/))
  * British Columbia's Clinical Assessment Program ([BC-CAP](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/clinical-assessment/))
  * Bureau de cooperation interuniversitaire ([BCI](https://www.bci-qc.ca/en/))
  * Alberta International Medical Graduate Program ([AIMG](https://www.aimg.ca/))

For further information, please check the following link on CaRMS:
[https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-
citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-)

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English      French

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the MCCQE Part I exam, please include the statement of
results and supplemental information report in your application.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the NAC exam, please include the statement of results and
supplemental information report in your application. The MCCQE Part II or
Certificate of Registration of the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada
(LMCC) is accepted in place of the NAC Examination.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

Obtain from your university

Optional - will be reviewed

Graduate Transcript (Master/PhD Degree)

Abstract/Publications

Additional required IMG documents

Lettre de reconnaissance de l'équivalence du diplôme MD

Please provide the results of the exams that permitted you to have your
medical degree recognized and approved by the CMQ.

Graduates with the diploma of doctor of osteopathy awarded by a school of
osteopathic medicine situated in the United States providing that the school
is accredited by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the
American Osteopathic Association do not have to obtain the recognition of the
equivalence of the medical diploma by the CMQ. These graduates do not require
the MCCQE Part I, the National Assessment Collaboration (NAC), or the
Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada (LMCC) in order to apply.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 29, 2025
  * January 30, 2025
  * January 31, 2025
  * February 3, 2025
  * February 4, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will take place on January 29,
30, 31 and February 3,4 2025  
  
An email notification will be sent on January 13th, 2025 and, if applicable,
will include instructions for scheduling your interview.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: In 2025, interviews will occur
virtually using the Zoom platform. They will consist of 3 individual
interviews of 30 minutes duration and will be conducted in both English and
French.  
  
Prior to the interview day, applicants will be able to attend an [information
session](https://www.mcgill.ca/pgme/events) about our program and hospital.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

All applicant files submitted before the deadline will be reviewed by the
selection committee. Each file is evaluated on a number of merits, including,
but not limited to, academic potential, interest in scholarly activities,
leadership in extracurricular activities, strength of reference letters, and
CasPER exam results.  Our program values a broad range of electives, both
within and outside of Pediatrics.  For electives in Pediatrics, the program
may contact any elective supervisor  listed on your CaRMS application.  After
review of documents, selected applicants will be offered a virtual interview.
Not all applicants meeting the minimal requirements will be offered an
interview.  The final ranking process is determined primarily by a combination
of file review and interview scores.

Selection interviews consist of three virtual interviews that will be
conducted using the Zoom platform. Please note that fluency in English and
French are required in our program and will be assessed during the interviews.

## Program goals

Our program supports residents to become excellent providers of care for
children with complex medical needs, as consultant general or subspecialty
pediatricians. We value collegial and conscientious learners who participate
in the fostering of a safe learning environment. We aim to promote the
development of residents who are self-directed, culturally sensitive, socially
accountable, and committed to excellence in education, scholarship, and
clinical care.

## Selection process goals

\- Identify applicants who have demonstrated an **interest in and aptitude for
pediatrics**

\- Identify applicants who have demonstrated an **interest in and ability to
care for children with medical complexity**

\- Identify applicants who have demonstrated the ability to **interact
appropriately with patients, families, colleagues and members of the
healthcare team**

\- Identify applicants who are **conscientious, motivated, passionate and
self-directed in their learning**

\- Identify applicants who have demonstrated an **understanding of the
importance of cultural sensitivity, social accountability in pediatrics and
advocacy in Pediatrics**

-Identify applicants who have demonstrated the ability to**  contribute to the academic mission of the Department of Pediatrics through research and teaching**



## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team is comprised of the program
director, chief residents, program administrators and designated faculty from
general and subspecialty pediatrics.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  
Typically between 25 and 35% depending on the number of applicants and the
number of positions available

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Research, teaching, electives, interests outside of medicine, alignment with program values   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Electives in Pediatrics are an asset though not a requirement.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  CASPer- evaluation of situational judgment   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering, teaching, mentorship, long-term pursuits outside of medicine   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Holding office in student government, club, organization   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic performance, interpersonal skills, clinical judgment, self-direction   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Clinical aptitudes, interpersonal skills   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in participating in future research projects   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We understand that candidates do not have equal
opportunities to take electives. While we encourage candidates to do an
elective in Pediatrics, this is not a selection requirement for interviews.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high-quality patient care through working in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Behavior, attitude, ability to work with others   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak in English and French and to communicate in an empathic and non-judgmental fashion   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrated an understanding of the social determinants of health and their impact on pediatric healthcare delivery and child health   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated the ability and passion for pediatrics, including caring for medically complex children   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated a knowledge of the program and awareness of alignment with personal values   
Leadership skills |  Involvement in the continuous improvement of patient care, research and/or education   
Professionalism |  Correspondence with staff and chief residents, punctuality   
Scholarly activities |  Interest in participating in future scholarly projects   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Our Pediatrics program at McGill offers the advantages of a children's
hospital-based program, with all pediatric medical and surgical subspecialties
available in our hospital, while being nested in a middle-sized institution
with a family-like, friendly atmosphere.  Our urban setting offers a great
variety in terms of patient population, from the newborn to the young adult.

While multiculturalism characterizes our patients and staff, a very
significant proportion of our patients have French as a first language.  In
addition, off-site rotations around Montreal and in Québec's rural
institutions require our trainees to master both official languages.   Our
institution's commitment to serving Québec's First Nations population offers
to our residents additional rich opportunities for exposure to different
cultural and clinical contexts.  We also offer a Global Health curriculum with
the option to pursue global health electives abroad.

We  moved to a state-of-the-art new hospital in May 2015.   This first-class
facility with a separate pediatric building offers many advantages, including
adjacency between neonatal and obstetrical services.  

As a program, we pride ourselves on offering education in a safe learning
environment that values continuous improvement, resident engagement, resident
leadership and resident well-being.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Curriculum**

In July 2021, Canadian Pediatrics Residency Programs transitioned to
Competence-by-Design (CBD). With this, we have implemented several changes to
the rotation calendar as well as the assessment and promotion requirements.

The CBD curriculum comprises **4 stages of training**  which are expected to
take, on average, 4-years to complete. These stages are as follows:

  * Transition to Discipline (approximately 3 blocks duration)
  * Foundations of Discipline (approximately 10 blocks duration)
  * Core of Discipline (approximately 26-30 blocks duration)
  * Transition to Practice (approximately 8-12 blocks duration) 

Each stage of training has Entrustable Professional Activities (EPAs)
associated with it. These EPAs represent activities that residents should be
able to perform independently upon completion of that stage of training.
Promotion from one stage to the next will be dependent on achievement of these
EPAs as well as successful completion of clinical rotations and non-clinical
program requirements (e.g., participation in a scholarly project, mandatory
patient safety course completion).

A complete list of EPAs by stage of training can be found at:
<https://www.mcgill.ca/peds/education-
training/pgme/programs/generalpediatrics/residencyprogram/cbd/curriculummapping>

Clinical rotations have been designed and sequenced in order to help ensure
that residents get the exposure, learning and assessment opportunities needed
to acquire the necessary competencies to meet the EPAs assigned to their stage
of training. As such, the first year of the curriculum is largely designed to
provide a wide breadth of exposure to general pediatrics including acute care
disciplines (i.e., Emergency Medicine, Neonatology, Critical Care Medicine).
The second year allows residents to explore subspecialties in greater depth
while adopting a more senior role in the inpatient context. The third year
aims at consolidating the acquired knowledge and skills of the first two
years, with senior resident responsibilities in core rotations in addition to
supplementary elective time. The fourth year of Pediatrics is composed of
rotations which promote the consolidation and refinement of the skills
required for independent practice of Pediatrics in a junior staff role.

There are three mandatory rural rotations for RAMQ-funded residents. Residents
in their third and fourth years may apply for a Northern Medicine elective
during their Rural Medicine block.  The fourth-year rotation may be completed
in a community pediatrics setting.

Elective research time is available starting in the second year, with one
optional block per year in the second, third and fourth years.  Residents may
also enroll in summer epidemiology courses at McGill University starting in
second year.

Our program offers an optional Global Health curriculum with the possibility
for third- and fourth-year residents to pursue global health electives abroad.
Bursaries are avaiable on a competitive basis to help cover the costs of these
international electives.

Additional fellowships in various streams of training are available following
the fourth year, including Academic Pediatrics, Social Pediatrics, Neonatal
Follow-Up, Complex Care and Hospitalist Pediatrics.

  
  

**Sample Rotation Template**



**Transition to Discipline-TTD (approximately the first 3 blocks of PGY-1)**

  * All residents will complete an Inpatient Wards rotation (4-weeks) in Transition to Discipline
  * Residents will complete 2 of the following during Transition to Discipline:
    * Emergency Medicine (4 weeks)
    * Medical Day Hospital (4 weeks)
    * Newborn Medicine (2 weeks) + Junior Ward Night Float (2 weeks)
    * Rural or Ambulatory Pediatrics (4 weeks)
    * Subspecialty elective (4 weeks)



**Foundations of Discipline- FoD (approximately the final 10 blocks of
PGY-1)**

  * Inpatient Wards (8 weeks)
  * Neonatology- Clinical Teaching Unit Junior rotation (4 weeks)
  * Pediatric Critical Care Medicine (6 weeks)
  * Complex Care Services (2 weeks)
  * Anesthesia (2 weeks)
  * Rural or Ambulatory Pediatrics (4 weeks if not done in TTD)
  * Junior Ward Nightfloat (2-4 weeks depending on if done in TTD)
  * Emergency Medicine (4 weeks if not done in TTD)
  * Newborn Medicine (2 weeks if not done in TTD)
  * Medical Day Hospital (4 weeks if not done in TTD)
  * Subspecialty electives (8 weeks)



**Core of Discipline- CoD (approximately 26-30 blocks)**

  * **Mandatory rotations typically expected to be completed during PGY-2**
    * Neonatology- Low acuity rotation (4-weeks) 
    * Neonatology level III- Jewish General Hospital (4-weeks)
    * Neonatology Night Float (1-week)
    * Pediatric Critical Care Medicine (4-weeks)
    * Senior Ward Nightfloat (4 weeks)
    * Emergency Medicine (4 weeks)
    * Rural or Community Pediatrics (4 weeks)

  * **Mandatory rotations typically expected to be completed during PGY-3/early PGY-4**
    * Inpatient Senior Wards (12-weeks)
    * Neonatology Senior (8-weeks)
    * Emergency Medicine (4-weeks)
    * Rural or Community Pediatrics (4 weeks)
    * Pediatric Critical Care/Neonatology Night Float (2-weeks)

  * **Mandatory rotations to be completed in EITHER PGY-2 or PGY-3**
    * Adolescent Medicine (4-weeks)
    * Developmental Pediatrics (4-weeks)
    * Social Pediatrics (4-weeks)

  * **Selective and Elective Rotations**
    * Residents will have approximately 40-44 weeks of elective and selective time during CoD. This can include up to 8-weeks of research, 4-weeks of health sciences education, 8-weeks of epidemiology and a choice of a wide range of pediatric medical and surgical subspecialty rotations. 



**Transition to Practice- TTP (approximately 10-13 blocks of PGY-4)**

  * Medical Day Hospital Junior Attending (6-weeks)
  * Complex Care Service Senior (6-weeks)
  * Acute Care Senior/Fellow (4-weeks)
  * Inpatient Flow Junior Attending (2-weeks)
  * Nightfloat Senior (5-weeks)
  * Elective rotations including research (18-25 weeks) 

**Research/Scholarly Project**  
  

Each resident is expected to participate in a scholarly project during the
course of a three-year program.  Research/scholarly project is a mandatory
component of our program and residents are required to present their projects
at our annual Resident Research Day, held jointly with the Pediatrics program
of Université de Montréal. A resident research coordinator supports the
residents in meeting the goals and timeline of their research projects. One
block per year of elective research time is available in the second, third and
fourth years. Research principles and critical appraisal of the medical
literature is taught during protected academic time.   Additionally, residents
may enroll in summer epidemiology courses at McGill University.

  
  

**Teaching**  
  

Protected academic teaching time, Departmental Grand Rounds and Chief-of-
Service rounds take place weekly. Academic half-day and Chief-of Service
rounds are protected and compulsory for all pediatric residents. Four to six
times per year, academic half-day, takes place at the McGill Medical
Simulation Center. Most rotations have additional service-specific teaching
rounds. An intensive summer 'boot camp' and lecture series of essential and
introductory pediatric topics, as well as Neonatal Resuscitation Program (NRP)
and Pediatric Advanced Life support (PALS) courses, and Lean Six Sigma Yellow
Belt training in Quality Improvement and Patient Safety, are offered to all
first-year residents at the beginning of their training. Third-year residents
are offered recertification courses for NRP and PALS.  Simulated "mock codes"
and other simulation activities are run in various units throughout the year.
There is also a longitudinal resident wellness curriculum delivered during the
protected academic time.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

-The Montreal Children's Hospital

-Jewish General Hospital (perinatology)

-Réseau de formation en pédiatrie sociale (Montréal)

-Centre Hospitalier de Gatineau

-Centre Hospitalier de Val-d'Or

-Hopital Ste-Justine (electives only)

-Other Québec rural sites, via CREPUQ

-There are over 110 full-time and 80 part-time pediatric staff in the hospital. There are approximately 40 pediatric residents and a similar number of subspecialty trainees.

-Residents are usually responsible for 4-6 patients on the wards, 5-8 patients in the NICU and 3-4 patients in the PICU.

-Residents spend 1 month per year in regional centers, such as Gatineau and Val D'Or.   The affiliated hospitals are staffed with pediatricians who practice consultant general pediatrics. Residents participating in these rotations will be expected to attend pediatric clinics, some specialty clinics, consults to the ER, consults to the obstetrical divisions, and attend to infants in the level 2 nurseries. Housing is provided for rotations at a significant distance from Montreal, as is financial support for transportation.

-Interprovincial or international electives may be arranged, but are subject to certain restrictions and approval from the program.  Bursaries are available for Global Health electives.  

* * *

# Additional Information

**Program Accreditation**

For more details regarding any of the postgraduate programs at McGill
University, visit our web sites. We are accredited by the Collège des médecins
du Québec and the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.  Our
program also complies with the American Board of Pediatrics' certification
requirements and thus will train candidates for any or all three of these
certification bodies.



**Duration of training in pediatrics**

As of the 2021-2022 academic year, pediatrics is a 4-year training program.
However, residents entering subspecialty were able to complete their fourth
year of pediatrics concurrently with their first year of subspecialty. In
other words, they were able to enter subspecialty following the third year of
pediatrics and have their fourth year of residency counted both towards their
pediatrics and subspecialty certifications (i.e., double-counting).

As of 2021-2022, our program has transitioned to Competence-by-Design. It is
required for all residents to meet their Transition to Practice (TTP)
requirements to be eligible to write the Royal College Examination in General
Pediatrics. At present, Quebec residents in the CBD curriculum may have the
choice to start **Quebec subspecialty training programs** after three years or
all programs after four years of training.  

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27397?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27397