#  University of Saskatchewan - Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology - Saskatoon  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on August 30, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Rani Kanthan  

Address Pathology & Lab Medicine  
Royal University Hospital  
Room 2841, 103 Hospital Drive  
Saskatoon SK , Saskatchewan, S7N 0W8  

Work  (306) 655-0238

Work

Websites of Interest [ Explore the General Pathology program at the U of S
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p5PhfrZA45E&list=PLh39DxXdNODVX3U0xQZhFWNHCpeVthZxT&index=7)  
[ Anatomical Pathology Video - Dr. Mary Kinloch
](https://youtu.be/SBaet5GH0Nw)  
[ Department of Pathology ](http://www.medicine.usask.ca/pathology)  
[ College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan ](http://www.cps.sk.ca/)  
[ Medical Council of Canada ](https://mcc.ca/)  
[ Postgraduate Medical Education - U of S
](https://medicine.usask.ca/residents/pgme.php)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: Diagnostic & Clinical Pathology Residency Training
Program

Name: Deb Quirion

Title: Program Administrator

Email: deb.chamberlain@usask.ca

Phone: (306) 655-0238

  

* * *

# Important Information

Applicants are responsible for reviewing the [University of Saskatchewan
Policies for the R-1 Match](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/saskatchewan/) to determine if they meet all
requirements and eligibility criteria. Failure to meet or provide proof of any
of the stated requirements or documents may result in an applicant’s file not
being reviewed or ranked.

**Casper Test**  
All applicants must complete the Casper test. Please refer to the Examinations
section for more information.

**Licensing  
** Matched applicants must be eligible for an educational register license
with the [College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Registration___Licensure/web/Applicants/Licensure/Registration_and_Licensure_Landing.aspx?hkey=75b022f8-df64-4f34-8e2a-a09bea881787)
(CPSS) for a July 1st start date and must maintain eligibility for an
educational register license throughout their entire training program. Matched
applicants who are graduating in the spring will need to provide a copy of
their medical degree/diploma to the PGME office and the College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Saskatchewan (CPSS) prior to the start of residency training.
Any delays in providing all required documentation to CPSS may result in the
following:

  * delay in issuance of an educational register license and a delay in start of postgraduate training beyond July 1st
  * release from CaRMS match contract

**Applicants completing medical education at the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)**  are
required to submit proof of English language proficiency before the rank order
deadline to demonstrate they meet CPSS requirements. More information is
available under Supporting Documentation-Language Proficiency.

**NOTE:**  Applicants who are considering a delay to their convocation date
must be aware that a medical degree cannot be issued to a student until they
have convocated. CPSS bylaws require that new residents must have received
their medical degree prior to the commencement of residency training. Choosing
to delay convocation will affect a matched applicant’s ability to commence
their residency training program in Saskatchewan on July 1. Please refer to
the [U of S CaRMS Deferral Policy](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/carms-
deferral-of-training-start-date---match-violation-release-from-
match.php#relatedForms) for additional information.

**Credentialing**  
In order to commence and continue in Postgraduate Medical Education training
programs, matched applicants must be eligible for and maintain privileges
within the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) as determined by their
credentialing process. The Saskatchewan Health Authority requires successful
applicants to submit immunization records and a current criminal record check
as part of their pre-resident application for appointment. Applicants with
criminal records will be considered on a case by case basis by the College of
Medicine in consultation with the Health Authority.

Any delays in providing all required documentation to the Saskatchewan Health
Authority may result in a delay in the start of postgraduate training beyond
July 1st.

**Resident Boot Camp  
** All matched applicants must attend a mandatory three-day Resident Boot Camp
scheduled for late June. The purpose of the Boot Camp is to provide additional
support to trainees as they transition to residency by introducing and
consolidating baseline skills and knowledge needed to flourish during their
residency years. The program will include interactive case-based and hands-on
practice sessions. Stipends will be provided to trainees.

Attendance is required and absences are only permitted in exceptional
circumstances, with prior approval of PGME.

**Advanced Cardiac Life Support  
** Matched applicants are required to provide proof of ACLS certification
(current as of July 1, 2025) to the PGME office prior to starting their
training program. The ACLS course must be endorsed by the Heart and Stroke
Foundation of Canada and/or the American Heart Association. ACLS training that
is not certified by these two organizations and/or is completed entirely
through an online course will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for
all costs associated with obtaining ACLS certification.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

All applicants must be Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents at the time of
application and must submit a notarized/certified photocopy of one of the
accepted citizenship documents.

Proof of citizenship must be current at the time of application and expired
documents will not be accepted.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum of 7.0 in each of the components

**Language assessment document accepted:**

  1. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on paper at a test venue
  2. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on a computer at a test venue
  3. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine at Home

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum grade of B

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of 9 in all sections

Applicants may be required to provide proof of proficiency in the English
language to meet licensing requirements of the [College of Physicians and
Surgeons (CPSS) of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Licensure/Requirements_Content/English_Language_Proficiency.aspx).

Applicants who graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States,
where English is the language of instruction **are not**  required to submit
proof of English language proficiency.

**Canadian applicants with medical education from the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)  are required
**to meet the English language proficiency requirements of the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan and must complete one of the language
exams listed above.

Applicants who are required to complete a language exam must submit a valid
test score in their CaRMS application **by the deadline for submission and
assignment of applications and documents.** Applicants who do not provide
acceptable proof of language proficiency, if required, will not be ranked.

Applicants must meet all of the criteria in one of the IELTS, OET or CELPIP
examinations. Please note that results from examinations cannot be combined,
unless the testing institution offers a sub-test.  
NOTE: Only OET offers sub-tests. CPSS will accept sub-tests obtained within
the same 24-month period as the original OET exam was sat.

Please direct any questions about language requirements to
[della.toews@usask.ca](mailto:della.toews@usask.ca). Applicants should not
contact CPSS directly about their eligibility for licensure.

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three reference letters are required. Must be from staff or supervisor.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Custom Résumé / CV

Optional - will be reviewed

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All applications are reviewed by the resident selection committee and assessed
for basic qualifications, Canadian licensing examination status, pathology
experience and research.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 24, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held on Friday, January
24th. All applications will be reviewed. A short list of candidates will be
prepared from this review, and interviews are initiated by the Program
Director. All interviews will be virtual for the 2025 R-1 Match and will be
held via Zoom.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The interview will be conducted by a
selection committee for a period of 30 minutes. Questions will centre around
their interest in pathology, electives in pathology, their preference for
academic or hospital-based pathology, outside interests, work-place
interactions, collaboration, health advocacy and conflict resolution. Basic
questions in pathology and laboratory medicine may be addressed at the
interview.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

\- An acceptable academic record which demonstrates both basic proficiency in
clinical medicine, and special proficiency in subjects related to pathology.

\- Previous work or elective time in pathology or related areas will be an
asset.

\- Experience in research will be an asset.

\- Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.

## Program goals

The University of Saskatchewan offers a comprehensive training program in
Diagnostic & Clinical Pathology in line with the Royal College training
Standards. We are a Royal College fully accredited specialty.

We are looking for academically strong candidates, who are pro-active and
self-driven. We hope that our residents will demonstrate exceptional
interpersonal skills, research experience, and academic experience.

This is a intensive residency program in terms of learning and reading, as
Diagnostic & Clinical Pathology is comprised of Anatomic Pathology (including
Forensics and Cytology), Biochemistry, Hematopathology, Microbiology and
Transfusion/Coagulation. After a work day, residents must have the self
discipline to study numerous topics every evening. We place a significant
emphasis on being a team player, with the ability to mesh with our current
residents, staff and faculty.

## Selection process goals

Applicants having a good background in histology, elective(s) in pathology and
recent medical graduates will be considered first. Successful applicants must
embody a passion and interest in Pathology and Laboratory Medicine. They must
be motivated in each subdiscipline, be academically strong, and exhibit the
ability to be a team player. Finally, they must demonstrate commitment for
learning and training in the province of Saskatchewan.

## File review process

Review team composition : The CaRMS Committee, consisting of the Program
Director, Program Administrator, three-five faculty and one-two residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Yes we evaluate.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Yes we evaluate.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  All applicants must complete a Casper exam to be eligible for consideration   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Yes we evaluate.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Yes we evaluate.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Yes we evaluate.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Yes we evaluate.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Yes we evaluate.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Yes we evaluate.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Yes we evaluate.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Yes we evaluate.   
Collegiality |  Yes we evaluate.   
Communication skills |  Yes we evaluate.   
Health advocacy |  Yes we evaluate.   
Interest in the discipline |  Yes we evaluate.   
Interest in the program |  Yes we evaluate.   
Leadership skills |  Yes we evaluate.   
Professionalism |  Yes we evaluate.   
Scholarly activities |  Yes we evaluate.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

[General Pathology Introduction - Resident Dr. Karan
Vats](https://youtu.be/p5PhfrZA45E)

[Anatomical Pathology Video - Dr. Mary Kinloch](https://youtu.be/SBaet5GH0Nw
"Dr. Mary Kinloch - AP")

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

### About the Program

Diagnostic & Clinical Pathology is a broad based specialty that bridges
clinical and laboratory medicine, incorporating aspects of both anatomic
pathology and clinical pathology. The University of Saskatchewan offers a
residency training program in Diagnostic & Clinical Pathology which is
competency based (CBD). Currently we have eleven residents in our program,
being one of the largest Diagnostic & Clinical Pathology programs in the
country.  The Diagnostic & Clinical Pathology Residency training program
aspires to educate, support, and mentor residents that are capable, confident,
and competent laboratory medicine physicians with the skills to handle the
wide variety of challenges posed in Pathology and Laboratory Medicine
practice.

The Diagnostic & Clinical Pathology residency training program is based out of
the Royal University Hospital located next to the beautiful and bustling
University of Saskatchewan campus. Training occurs in both of the major
centers of the Province of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon and Regina.  In Saskatoon,
training is provided at the Royal University Hospital, St. Paul's Hospital,
and Saskatoon City Hospital.  In Regina, training is provided at Regina Pasqua
Hospital and Regina General Hospital. Also, our senior residents will complete
a general pathology rotation in Prince Albert, Saskatchewan; they will be able
to utilize their diagnostic & clinical pathology training by running the
Anatomical Pathology division as well as all laboratories (Biochemistry,
Hematopathology, Microbiology and Transfusion/Coagulation).

Competency by Design (CBD), the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Canada’s competency based medical education framework, began July 1st, 2019.
CBD places a focus on work-based assessments of key tasks of the discipline –
Entrustable Professional Activities (EPAs) – as an indicator of a resident’s
competency. Frequent evaluation of these EPAs provides numerous data points,
which are used to plot resident’s progress and, in conjunction with other
methods of assessment, determine a resident’s progression to the next stage.

Stages of CBD “The Competence Continuum”

  1. Transition to Discipline
  2. Foundations of Discipline
  3. Core Discipline
  4. Transition to Practice

  1. Transition to Discipline

This stage will focus on establishing skills in microscopy, the basics of
specimen handling and laboratory safety and the presentation of clinical
information for clinic-pathologic correlations. Residents will create personal
learning plans to help guide their studying, and create a log book of all
procedures and cases seen. This also includes a Bootcamp. Bootcamp provides
residents with a basic introduction to histology, as well as introduction to
the areas of biochemistry, hematopathology, microbiology and anatomic
pathology. This introduction includes the basics of specimen accessioning and
sources of preanalytical error.

  2. Foundations of Discipline

In this stage residents will complete a selection of clinical and laboratory
medicine training blocks to gain experience in clinical assessment, procedures
and laboratory diagnoses. Clinical rotations are focused on areas directly
related to pathology such as surgical oncology, infectious disease, hematology
etc. Laboratory medicine rotations will focus on anatomical pathology –
developing basic skills in autopsy, grossing, and microscopic diagnosis and
reporting. Some flexibility in the length of this stage can be accommodated if
residents achieve their EPAs quickly, or need additional support. Residents
will be required to take call as applicable to their rotation schedule.

  3. Core of Discipline

Residents in this stage will establish and hone their skills in all areas of
laboratory medicine. Anatomical pathology rotations will focus on
subspecialties (i.e. dermatopathology, breast, GI, etc.). They will also
progress through the clinical pathology specialties (hematopathology, medical
microbiology, clinical chemistry, molecular). This stage will have the most
flexibility to schedule rotations based on resident’s educational needs and
goals of practice. Elective rotations at other institutions can be arranged to
gain specific experiences and establish connections for possible fellowship
opportunities.

  4. Transition to Practice 

This is the final stage of residency under CBD which occurs after a resident
has passed their Royal College Examination usually in the fourth year of their
training. Residents in this stage essentially work as junior attending
pathologists to increase their comfort and skill at handling complex issues in
laboratory medicine and prepare them for independent practice.

The program will provide educational rotation opportunities to successfully
complete each of these stages of training.

### Resident Research

The University of Saskatchewan has numerous pathology researchers in both
clinical and basic science areas. Residents in the Diagnostic & Clinical
Pathology residency program are encouraged to undertake at least one research
project which could address research issues in any of the disciplines in our
department. In this context, residents are provided with many opportunities
above and beyond the minimum requirements. The Residency Program Committee
with Dr. Fang Wu as Research Coordinator acts to support residents in
achieving their research goals. All Residents are encouraged to present at the
Departmental Research Day (Monday, November 4th, 2024), and other various
Research Days across campus. Funding is available through the residency
program and Endowment Funds to support residents attending conferences to
present their research at a national or international, in accordance to the
RPC policies.

For larger projects, dedicated research blocks (two research blocks allocated
during residency) can be scheduled if desired. Furthermore, residents are
eligible to apply for the University of Saskatchewan’s Clinical Investigator
Program and work towards a graduate degree (a post-doctoral stream is also
available).

<https://medicine.usask.ca/programs/cip.php>

### Teaching

Since teaching is intrinsic to the role of a pathologist, residents are
trained in multiple formats of informal and formal teaching. Residents at all
levels are expected to present cases to their colleagues and attending staff
at interdepartmental rounds.

Residents are encouraged to attend and participate in discussions of research
presented at regularly scheduled departmental research conferences, journal
clubs, and presentations by invited speakers. These conferences offer trainees
the chance to contribute to scientific critique of research, and learn about
new techniques, new research directions, and application of statistical
methods to laboratory analysis.

Opportunities are also provided for residents to teach medical students
rotating through pathology services and to assist in the laboratory portion of
first and second year undergraduate medical courses. Additional opportunities
are available for more senior (third and fourth year) residents, such as
serving as a facilitator for the problem-based learning sessions for the first
and second year medical school students and giving Grand Rounds. Also, with
Competency By Design there are quite a few milestones which can be evaluated
by senior residents. Academic Half Day sessions may also be taught by senior
residents to junior residents, and possibly allied health personnel such as
senior laboratory techs etc.

In addition, residents with a special interest in medical education are
encouraged to explore the possibility of completing a master’s degree in
medical education, which will be supported by the department for a suitable
candidate.

* * *

# Training Sites

### Hospital Information

Information on teaching hospitals affiliated with the College of Medicine,
University of Saskatchewan are provided below.

[**Royal University Hospital
(Saskatoon)**](https://www.saskatoonhealthregion.ca/locations_services/locations/ruh)

This is operated as a tertiary care hospital with a large outpatient service
(160,000 visits annually). There are many specialty residents and students of
all levels. The institution participates in the integrated university
residency program in the following specialties: anesthesia, cardiology,
diagnostic radiology, internal medicine, neurology, pediatrics, pediatric
neurology, psychiatry, respiratory medicine, rheumatology, general surgery,
neurosurgery, obstetrics & gynecology, ophthalmology, orthopedic surgery,
neonatal/perinatal medicine, physical medicine and rehabilitation, and general
pathology. Numerous medical and surgical electives are offered as well. Royal
University Hospital has a separate emergency department and an organized
facility for ambulatory care. The Royal University Hospital is the Saskatoon
Trauma Centre and all pediatrics and obstetrics are based here. The hospital's
functional space program allocates approximately 75,000 sq. ft. to the
University of Saskatchewan to be used for research.

[**Jim Pattison Children's  Hospital
(Saskatoon)**](https://pattisonchildrens.ca/)

Jim Pattison Children’s Hospital serving the province, located in Saskatoon,
opened its doors on September 29, 2019 and is dedicated to the pediatric care
of the province. It offers state-of-the-art equipment and facilities for
children, families and moms-to-be from across Saskatchewan. Temporarily the
Adult Emergency Medical services are also housed in this hospital.  

[**St. Paul's Hospital
(Saskatoon)**](https://www.saskatoonhealthregion.ca/locations_services/locations/sph)

This hospital is operated as a general hospital emphasizing community
specialty and family medicine. This is a centre of family medicine and
nephrology. Specialty residency training and family medicine residency
training is provided as residents rotate through various services. St. Paul's
Hospital has a separate emergency service department and an organized facility
for ambulatory care. Clinical research is done on an ongoing basis.

[**Saskatoon City Hospital
(Saskatoon)**](https://www.saskatoonhealthregion.ca/locations_services/locations/sch)

This hospital is operated as a general hospital and provides training in a
variety of specialty programs and family medicine. Residents from many College
of Medicine training programs rotate through Saskatoon City Hospital. The
hospital occupies a 500,000 sq. ft. facility. This site is the home base for
the residency programs in physical medicine and rehabilitation and
ophthalmology.

[**Regina General Hospital**](https://www.rqhealth.ca/facilities/regina-
general-hospital)

The Regina General Hospital plays a key role in the Regina Qu'Appelle Health
Region's integrated health care system. One of the Region's two major
hospitals and one of two tertiary care referral centres in Saskatchewan, the
Regina General Hospital has a long history of providing progressive and
innovative institutional health care to the people of southern Saskatchewan.
In conjunction with many community health services in the Region, this acute
care facility is a leader in providing a seamless system of health care to its
clients.

As a major referral centre, the Regina General Hospital is staffed with many
talented medical professionals experienced in a variety of specialties
including cardiosciences, neurosciences and trauma care. Home to
technologically-advanced medical and diagnostic equipment, the Regina General
offers a full range of specialized acute care services. A new simulation
centre, housed in the General Hospital will be opened in January 2012.

The Regina General Hospital is home to geographically based residents in
Obstetrics & Gynecology, Psychiatry, Internal Medicine and the Emergency
Medicine.

[**Pasqua Hospital (Regina)**](https://www.rqhealth.ca/facilities/pasqua-
hospital)

For 90 years, the Pasqua Hospital has served the health care needs of southern
Saskatchewan. Formerly called the Grey Nuns Hospital, the Pasqua Hospital
continues its tradition of care and community service as an integral part of
the Regina Qu'Appelle Health Region. The Pasqua Hospital is recognized for
provision of quality health care in several specialized areas. Highly
qualified physicians and staff, along with advanced diagnostic equipment, have
enabled the Pasqua Hospital to stay in the forefront of many programs, such as
ophthalmology, orthopedics and cancer services. The Pasqua Hospital has busy
emergency and ambulatory care areas. It serves the core areas of Regina.

**[Victoria Hospital (Prince
Albert)](https://www.saskhealthauthority.ca/facilities-locations/victoria-
hospital)**

The City of Prince Albert is the largest community in the Prince Albert
Parkland Health Region, with a population exceeding 40,000.

Prince Albert is home to the Regional Health Centre, which includes Victoria
Hospital, Herb Bassett Home, Pineview Terrace, Victoria Square, Brief and
Social Detox Centre, Mental Health Inpatient (adult), Child and Youth Mental
Health Inpatient, and Family Treatment Centre.

The City of Prince Albert is the largest community in the Prince Albert
Parkland Health Region, with a population exceeding 40,000.

Prince Albert is home to the Regional Health Centre, which includes Victoria
Hospital, Herb Bassett Home, Pineview Terrace, Victoria Square, Brief and
Social Detox Centre, Mental Health Inpatient (adult), Child and Youth Mental
Health Inpatient, and Family Treatment Centre.

### **Additional Resources**

Residents have access to the internet and email from computers at their
workstations in the Resident's room which is available at all hours. Residents
have access to internet resources after hours through the University of
Saskatchewan website. Some of the teaching material is available in electronic
media format and the Department continues to expand its electronic image
database (scanned paper and kodachrome images as well as a virtual microscopy
system). Residents have full access to the departmental and resident library
after hours. The Health Sciences Library is open until midnight and on
weekends. Residents can also borrow books from the Pathologists, who often
have an extensive library of their own in their respective fields of interest.

### **Distributive Learning at the University of Saskatchewan**

The College of Medicine, while physically located in Saskatoon, is a
provincial resource in attitude and in practice. Postgraduate Medical
Education at the University of Saskatchewan takes seriously its role in
supporting quality health care to all people of the province. This means
training physicians to meet the needs of, not only urban populations, but also
those of rural and remote populations. In so doing, the College of Medicine
has developed, and continues to develop, rotations in Regina and other
communities. These rotations are designed to provide educational experiences
to enhance the resident's knowledge and skills, and take maximum advantage of
unique educational opportunities in a diversity of communities. All
postgraduate programs are expected to develop and incorporate into their
curriculum, rotations in communities other than Saskatoon. The manner in which
each program does this is not strictly prescribed by the College of Medicine -
but is determined by the Residency Program Committee, taking into
consideration the needs of their residents, and the excellent opportunities
available in other locations. These rotations continue to evolve as we seek to
build stronger and better programs.

Extensive support is available for out of town rotations. The exact nature of
this support varies with location and program. The communities involved,
individual programs, the College of Medicine, and the Ministry of Health work
collaboratively to ensure residents are not financially disadvantaged by the
need to relocate. Housing is provided for residents completing short term
rotations away from their home site within the province. Please review the
[PGME Housing Guidelines](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/pgme-housing-
guidelines-pgme-housing-application-for-short-term-mandatory-
rotation.php#relatedForms) for more detailed information.

While all residents are strongly encouraged to take advantage of educational
experiences in other communities to ensure a well rounded education, the
amount and format of such time is determined by the program committee. Royal
College Specialty residents are expected to complete up to 25% - 35% of their
training in Regina, or smaller centres (i.e. Prince Albert).

* * *

# Additional Information

Surrounded by endless fields of shimmering wheat, today’s Saskatoon is a
pocket of **Saskatchewan's**  culture, vitality, and welcoming prairie spirit.
Saskatoon is a commercial and educational centre located on [Treaty Six
Territory and the Homeland of the Métis](https://www.saskatoon.ca/community-
culture-heritage/cultural-diversity/indigenous-initiatives/treaty-6-metis-
homeland) in what is now the province of Saskatchewan. The Saskatoon area has
been inhabited for over 8000 years, first by First Nations people who have
left evidence of their lives in the form of tipi rings, medicine wheels, and
bison kill sites. The name “Saskatoon” comes from the Cree word
misaskwatomina, which refers to a sweet, purple berry, which still grows in
the area. With the South Saskatchewan River flowing through the middle of
town, river life is integral to the heart of the city. Saskatoon is Canada’s
“city of bridges,” thanks to the seven bridges that span the city, all of
which cross the South Saskatchewan River. Almost half of the city is on each
side of the river, so crossing east and west over the bridges, seeing the
river, and walking the riverbank trails are all part of daily life here.
Saskatoon has four sister cities – Cologne, Germany; Tampere, Finland;
Shijiazhuang, China and Umeå, Sweden. Famous and/or notable people from
Saskatoon include Joni Mitchell (musician), Farley Mowat (author), Gordie Howe
(former NHL player), John Diefenbaker (former Prime Minister of Canada), Ray
Hnatyshyn (former Governor General of Canada), Yann Martel (author of _  Life
of Pi – and the movie version won some Oscars), _Jim Pattison (billionaire
businessman) and Roy Romanow (former Premier of Saskatchewan).

**When to Come:** Saskatoon has become a city of festivals .With more sunlight
per year than any other Canadian city (average 2,381 hours of sunshine every
year), Saskatoon comes alive in summer, with celebrations like [Saskatoon
Blues Festival](https://www.saskatoonbluessociety.ca/), the [Fringe
Festival](https://fringefestivals.com/festivals/saskatoon-fringe-festival/),
the [Sasktel Jazz Festival](https://www.saskjazz.com/), [Shakespeare on the
Saskatchewan](https://shakespearesask.com/), [Nutrien Children’s
Festival](https://www.nutrienchildrensfestival.com/), [Rock the
River](https://rocktheriversaskatoon.ca/), [Exhibition
](https://www.saskatoonex.com/)and [Folkfest](https://saskatoonfolkfest.com/).
If you enjoy the outdoors there is a vast selection of [Saskatchewan
Provincial
Parks](https://parks.saskatchewan.ca/?e4q=79a7a16a-d99a-4a5a-8115-d38f88688def&e4p=3ce99d49-9399-4b51-99c2-e99c939503cd&e4ts=1724780415&e4c=aspira&e4e=snasosk02&e4rt=Safetynet&e4h=c7b1449c4134d15d9d976c098f969195)
for camping, beaches, water and other activities. All year you can visit the
[Remai Modern Art Gallery](http://remaimodern.org/) (that also houses Hearth
restaurant). During winter, kick sledding and cross-country skiing are popular
in
[Meewasin](https://meewasin.com/?gclid=Cj0KCQjw_5unBhCMARIsACZyzS0wzKwh35N7e18va2sl1p9Kna4-mlqp1Q4Af24n5aqgr8sNN3anHIIaAujtEALw_wcB).
The [Nutrien Wintershines Festival](https://www.nutrienwintershines.ca/) takes
place late January/early February, with an ice park, international ice carving
competitions, and soup cook-offs. Christmas lights add a festive glow to the
outdoor skating rink beside the Delta Bessborough hotel. [Persephone
Theatre](https://persephonetheatre.org/) always provides great shows to attend
during all seasons. During Christmas, you can also enjoy the [Festival of
Trees](https://www.festival-of-trees.com/) at the Western Development Museum
or the [Enchanted Forest](http://www.enchanted-forest.org/) at the Forestry
Farm (the longest running and best light show in Canada).

**What to Eat or Drink:  **Saskatoon is the Cree name for an edible red berry
used in pies, jams, and condiments. Pick Saskatoon berries (used in pies,
jams, condiments and beverages) in season or just enjoy eating them at the
[Berry Barn](https://www.berrybarn.ca/) (830 Valley Road). Diners will want to
check out the Farm to Table-inspired [Odla](https://odla.ca/) or the ambience
of [Calories](http://caloriesrestaurant.ca/). For the heart of downtown
[Cohen's Beer Republic](https://www.cohensrepublic.com/) or sample the tacos
at [Picaro](http://www.picaro.ca/). Forward prairie cooking, [Hearth
Restaurant](https://www.hearth.restaurant/about), accommodates everything from
solo dining at the bar (located in the Remai Art Gallery), to an intimate date
night. Another hot spot to check out is [Primal
Pasta](https://primalpasta.ca/), time honoured Italian food & handmade pasta
using Saskatchewan heritage grains & whole animal butchery. [Amigos
Cantina](http://www.amigoscantina.com/), a Broadway district club with Tex-Mex
on the menu (amazing burritos)! For a great brunch spot check out [Hometown
Diner](https://www.hometowndiner306.com/), If you like checking out breweries
or distilleries there is [Churchill Brewery](https://churchillbrewing.com/)
or[ Black Fox Farm & Distillery](https://www.blackfoxfarmanddistillery.com/).
Always finish with something sweet at [Fable Ice
Cream](https://www.fableicecream.com/). And more…come and see.

[Saskatoon - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saskatoon)

[Tourism Saskatoon](https://www.tourismsaskatoon.com/)



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26618?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26618