#  University of Alberta - Emergency Medicine - Edmonton

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 7

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. David Ha  

Address Emergency Medicine  
8303 - 112 Street  
750 University Terrace  
Edmonton, Alberta, T6G 2T4  

Work  780-492-9962

Fax  780-492-4341 (Fax)

Websites of Interest [ University of Alberta Emergency Medicine
](http://www.ualberta.ca/emergency-medicine)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. David Ha

Title: Program Director

Email: ha@ualberta.ca

Phone: 780-492-9962

  

Name: Dr. Joanne Norum

Title: Associate Program Director

Email: jnorum@ualberta.ca

Phone: 780-492-9962

  

Name: Dr. Yang Li

Title: Associate Program Director

Email: yang.li@ualberta.ca

Phone: 780-492-9962

  

Name: Jenni Marshall

Title: Program Administrator

Email: emergpg@ualberta.ca

Phone: 780-492-9962

  

* * *

# Return of Service

There are no return of service requirements at the University of Alberta.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Please see the Alberta [provincial
criteria.](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/)

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) are required to provide proof of
English language proficiency as determined by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) who completed their medical education in
Quebec or at the University of Ottawa (French Stream) are required to provide
proof of English language proficiency as determined by the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

CMGs who completed their medical education at the University of Ottawa must
indicate on their application which stream they completed (either French or
English).

_For more information on the CPSA English language requirements, please visit
the  [CPSA website](https://cpsa.ca/physicians/registration/english-language-
proficiency/)._

Reference documents

Required

Emergency Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Three (3) [Emergency Medicine structured reference
letters](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/sample-Emergency-Medicine-structured-
reference-letter.pdf) are required.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

**_[Note: Photos will not be masked by CaRMS until the Interview Period.]_  **

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

The personal letter should illustrate the candidate’s ability to articulate
their concept of emergency medicine as a career choice. Specifically, the
letter should describe why the candidate feels they would be a good fit for
emergency medicine, past experiences that have prepared them for a future
career in emergency medicine, strengths they would bring to the program and
future career goals.

Custom Résumé / CV

An up to date Curriculum Vitae is required.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 3, 2025
  * February 4, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: **Interviews are required for this program,
and will be scheduled Monday, February 3, and Tuesday, February 4, 2025.
Interviews will be conducted via a virtual platform. Interviewees will be
contacted with information pertaining to scheduling the interview.**  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: **Candidates will be short-listed for
an interview then the program will contact those short-listed candidates.**  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates shall be evaluated on the basis of:

  * Academic records, with attention paid to proficiency in subjects related to the discipline of emergency medicine
  * Three Emergency medicine structured reference letters
  * A personal letter
  * Curriculum vitae
  * Interviews
  * Specifically, the evaluation process shall assess the following: 
    * Leadership
    * Commitment to the discipline of emergency medicine
    * Creativity in life adjustments and achievement of educational goals
    * Interpersonal skills
    * Motivation and persistence
    * Decision-making ability and maturity under stress
    * Likelihood of making a significant contribution to emergency medicine

## Program goals

**The resident will be trained in all aspects of emergency medicine and will
be able to provide clinical care at a consultant level.   Upon completion of
training, the resident will be poised to become a clinical, administrative,
and/or academic leader within the specialty, as well as the medical community
in general.  The resident will be trained to be an effective advocate both for
individual patients and the population as a whole.  In addition, successful
residents will develop skills that will build and maintain a sustainable
practice.**

## Selection process goals

The skills and attributes of a successful applicant for the University of
Alberta Emergency Medicine RCPSC Program include:

  * Academic record
  * Experience working in groups, including as a leader.
  * Examples of working and succeeding in challenging situations.
  * Commitment to the specialty, demonstrated by clinical exposure, scholarly projects, and leadership roles.
  * Examples of patient advocacy and working for the betterment of others.

## File review process

Review team composition :  
\- Program Director  
\- Associate Program Director  
\- Faculty volunteers (all of whom are from Emergency Medicine)  
\- Resident volunteers from EM  

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  General review of clinical and academic record   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Electives will be considered   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Demonstration of commitment to Emergency Medicine   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Works well in a team as a leader   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  General review of clinical and academic performance   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Articulation of candidate's vision of a career in Emergency Medicine.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  A reference from faculty from a site with a Royal College EM program is viewed positively.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  General interest in patient centered care   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

**However, doing an elective in Emergency Medicine would likely significantly
assist the candidate in determining whether  the specialty is right for them
on an individual level.  **

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  CaRMS 2025 Interviews will be conducted on a virtual platform.  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work well in a team environment.   
Collegiality |  Ability to work well in a team environment and be approachable by all team members.   
Communication skills |  Communication is important for the functioning of the Emergency Department.   
Health advocacy |  Very important.   
Interest in the discipline |  Very important.   
Interest in the program |  Very important.   
Leadership skills |  Demonstration of leadership experience and leadership style.   
Professionalism |  Very important.   
Scholarly activities |  Important.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * Our catchment area is from Red Deer to the far north.
  * You work with staff one - on - one.
  * Innovative curriculum tailored to each stage of training.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**PROGRAM STRUCTURE**

**Clinical Experiences**

**STAGE                                         ** |  **APPROXIMATE DURATION** |  **POSSIBLE CLINICAL ROTATIONS**  
---|---|---  
Transition to Discipline |  3 Blocks | Emergency Medicine  
Foundations |  6-9 Blocks | Emergency Medicine  
Pediatric Emergency Medicine  
Internal Medicine  
Coronary Care Unit  
Obstetrics & Gynecology  
General Surgery  
Anesthesiology  
Core |  36-40** _ _** Blocks | Emergency Medicine  
Pediatric Emergency Medicine  
Critical Care  
Pediatric Critical Care  
Point of Care Ultrasound  
Plastic Surgery  
Anesthesiology  
Pediatric Anesthesiology  
Psychiatry  
Internal Medicine  
Obstetrics & Gynecology  
General Surgery  
Sports Medicine  
Neurosurgery/Neurology  
Research  
Administration  
Emergency Medical Services  
Toxicology  
Elective  
Transition to Practice |  12-15 Blocks | Emergency Medicine  
Pediatric Emergency Medicine  
Area of Concentrated Expertise  
  
*1 Block = 4 weeks

**Note: Clinical rotations in Core and Transition to Practice can be tailored
to the needs of the resident based on their preference and advice from their
Academic Advisor and Competence Committee.**

**SCHOLARLY PROJECT**

Each resident will complete or be involved in a scholarly project, as outlined
in the RCPSC Training Experiences for Emergency Medicine. Support for these
activities is provided by the Department of Emergency Medicine.

**EXTRA CLINICAL TEACHING**

**Academic Rounds**

The Academic Full Day (AFD) is held every Tuesday and is shared with the CFPC-
EM residents and open to staff physicians, allied health professionals, and
medical students.  Each resident is responsible for presenting cases and topic
presentations 1-3 times per year.  Attendance is mandatory for RCPSC-EM
residents.

The afternoons of AFD consist of a variety of smaller group teaching sessions
including hands-on skills teaching (e.g. casting, slit lamp examination,
cadaver labs), and small group seminars.

**Journal Club**

Journal Club alternates being held as part of Academic Full Day or hosted by a
different staff member and run by the residents in a rotating fashion
throughout the year. Attendance is mandatory for RCPSC-EM residents.

**Junior Interactives**

These rounds are for residents in the early Stages and are held once per
month. These sessions will cover a variety of topics including: approach to
differential diagnosis of common emergency department complaints, approach to
radiologic interpretation and specialized topics such as ophthalmology,
epistaxis and orthopedics.

**Senior Interactives**

These monthly rounds are based on designated topics for residents in the Core
Stage.  They are designed to facilitate ongoing reading and study preparation.

**Human Patient Simulation (HPS)**

HPS sessions focus on crisis resource management and resuscitation skills.
Residents will rotate as the team leader throughout the year, so you will
definitely get many opportunities to run the show!

**Junior Resident Rounds**

These junior resident-run rounds take place Tuesday mornings before AFD.  They
include low-fidelity simulations to focus on ACLS/PALS/ATLS resuscitations, as
well as brief reviews of common topics.

**Mock Oral Examinations**

Residents gain exposure to practice oral examinations 1-3 times/year in
Transition to Discipline, Foundations of Discipline and Core of Discipline
stages, given by various emergency medicine staff. In preparation for the
Royal College Exam, this intensifies to a set schedule every second week
beginning 8 months prior to the exam, given by our program’s oral exam
preparation team.

**Transition to Practice Program/Curriculum**

In addition to Academic Rounds, residents undergo 10-12 set academic sessions
over 12 months following completion of the Royal College Emergency Medicine
Specialty Exam. The curriculum focuses on primarily non-clinical topics (eg.
administrative, healthcare management/governance, leadership, legal and
financials). These topics are designed and targeted to significantly support
residents and their families to more smoothly/easily transition to Independent
Emergency Medicine Practice in Canada following residency.

**Other Community Involvement**

The emergency medicine residents at the University of Alberta have taken an
active role in the overall medical community. Many are ACLS, PALS, ATLS and
BTLS instructors teaching other residents, medical students, nurses, and other
physicians.  Emergency medicine residents and staff instructors run the ACLS
course each spring for the outgoing 4th year medical students and summer for
students in the LINK block.

**Resident Wellness**

The program has a strong commitment to Resident Wellness.  Staff serving as
Wellness Mentors are available to meet with residents to discuss, in
confidence, issues relating to personal and professional wellness.

* * *

# Training Sites

  * University of Alberta Hospital
  * Royal Alexandra Hospital
  * Grey Nuns Community Hospital
  * Misericordia Community Hospital
  * Strathcona Community Hospital
  * Westview Community Hospital
  * Sturgeon Community Hospital
  * Northeast Community Health Centre
  * Stollery Children's Hospital

The **University of Alberta Hospital** is the main tertiary care centre for
Northern Alberta and is situated on the campus of the University of Alberta.
The hospital is a major transplantation centre and a designated trauma centre.
The Emergency Department serves many high acuity patients with complicated
medical illnesses and a wide variety of trauma.

The **Royal Alexandra Hospital** is a large tertiary care centre serving the
urban centre of Edmonton. It is a designated trauma centre and has a high
volume, high acuity emergency department.

The **Grey Nuns, Misericordia, Strathcona,  WestView**, and **Sturgeon
Community Hospitals** , and the **Northeast Community Health Centre** are
community facilities with active emergency departments.

The **Stollery Children's  Hospital** is a "hospital-within-a-hospital". The
pediatric emergency department is located within the University of Alberta
Hospital building and serves as a referral centre for Northern Alberta.  As
such, it sees a mix of ambulatory and high acuity patients.

**Resources**

The residents' office has a small library and also acts as a social gathering
place.  There are multiple computer workstations available to the residents.
All residents receive a University of Alberta computing ID with access to the
library's considerable resources when they start the program.

  * There are approximately 185 full-time emergency physicians in Edmonton and we currently have 30 residents over the five years of the program.
  * During their on-service (Emergency Department) rotations, residents are scheduled for approximately 14-16 eight-hour shifts during each 28-day block.
  * There are no mandatory rural rotations. 

* * *

# Additional Information

**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)**

The University of Alberta recognizes the importance of diversity, equity,
inclusivity, decolonization, and indigenization (EDIDI) and is committed to
the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry’s policy on anti-racism.

Further, the University is committed to implementing the Truth and
Reconciliation Commission calls to action that are relevant to education and
medicine.The pursuit of diversity and equitable opportunities is a core value
that guides our selection practices.

The University encourages applications from underrepresented groups, including
Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women,
persons of a minority gender identity or sexual orientation, and individuals
who would contribute to the diversity of the medical community. The CaRMS
Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) is an optional form that candidates
can fill out.

Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism in residency
selection, but is currently not using the CSIQ as part of our application
process. We are using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable
opportunities for all applicants.

* * *

# FAQ

**What is your residency program’s orientation and focus?**

  * The program is very focused on preparing you to be a competent consultant emergency physician. Academic Day, journal club, various rounds, clinical learning, direct observation in the emergency department, and specific exam preparation in the exam year of training allow every opportunity for success on the Royal College certification exam.
  * The CanMEDS competencies are an essential part of the evaluation scheme, ensuring that residents become complete physicians. The goal is to produce leaders in the field of emergency medicine at all levels including locally, nationally and also internationally.

**What is the availability of experiences in subspecialty areas during
training?**

  * As one can imagine, EM residents spend a great deal of their clinical time gaining skills and knowledge in various off-service rotations. Currently rotations are done in surgical subspecialties including plastic surgery and neurosurgery. Medical subspecialties rotations include critical care and cardiology. Emergency subspecialty rotations include EMS (emergency medical services), Trauma, and Toxicology.
  * With the extensive elective time, residents have spent time in other subspecialties including: research, medical education, air medical transport, infectious diseases, neurology, pulmonology, the STI Clinic, rural emergency medicine, wilderness medicine, and ophthalmology to name a few. Of course signifigant time is also spent in other off-service rotations not traditionally considered subspecialties, including general surgery, medicine and obstetrics.

**Are there sufficient elective opportunities during training to explore your
special interests?**

  * Residents will complete an Area of Specialist Leadership during their residency. In recent years, areas of focus have included (but are not limited to):
    * Critical Care Medicine
    * Ethics
    * Geriatric Emergency Medicine
    * Sports Medicine
    * Simulation
    * Medical Education
    * Informatics
    * Air Transport
    * Disaster Medicine
    * Addiction Medicine
    * ED Ultrasound
    * Toxicology
    * Pediatric Emergency Medicine
    * Refugee Health
    * Inner City Health
    * Trauma
    * Infectious Diseases
    * Master’s degrees in Business, Public Health & Epidemiology, Education
    * Prehospital and Transport Medicine (formerly EMS)

**What is the on-call schedule during each year of residency?**

  * Residents generally do call during the first 3 years of residency when we do the majority of our off service rotations. Call requirements are outlined in the [Resident Physician Agreement](https://www.para-ab.ca/agreement/) with PARA (Physician Association of resident Physicians of Alberta). More information may be obtained on the [PARA website](https://www.para-ab.ca/).

**Is there active and/or required research in your residency program?**

  * The Department of Emergency Medicine is actively involved in EM research at local, national, and international levels. Current areas of research include ED Overcrowding, Health outcomes, Acute Asthma/COPD care, Pediatric CT Head Rules, prehospital care, air medical transport, and medical education (pretty much every area of EM you can think of!).
  * It is expected that each resident will complete a scholarly project. This project is defined as the production and dissemination of a scholarly project suitable for dissemination at a national or international level. Examples of projects include systematic reviews, prospective surveys, chart reviews, case control studies, educational modules, and quality assurance projects.

**Briefly describe a typical day.**

  * Arrive at a shift, take handover from the doctor going home, noting all the things that need to be completed. Start seeing patients, see the sickest first and frequently reassess them as you are taking care of the less acute patients. See the trauma patient, do a shoulder reduction, assess the short of breath 85-year old, suture a laceration, arrange for a patient with MI to go to the cath lab, decide if someone is suicidal, eat when you can. Breathe. Shift is over in 8 hours, stay an extra hour or two to clean up.

**Specifically, how able is your specialty to accommodate family life?**

  * Shift work has its bonuses and drawbacks. While residents may have to work 2 out of 4 weekends and some holidays, they have days off during the week. During these times residents may pick-up children from school, do banking business or just about anything nobody else has time for. With shift work, it is common for staff to “stack” 4 or 5 together in order to take an extended number of days off. Further, staff are usually able to trade shifts easily to accommodate various circumstances. One of the best things about shift work is that when you leave the hospital no one calls or pages you and your free time is pretty much yours.

**Is resident wellness prioritized in your program?**

  * The University of Alberta Emergency Medicine program makes a dedicated effort to encourage resident wellness. Trainee wellbeing is a priority through both formal and informal wellness activities. We are very lucky to have several staff in the city with a special interest in resident wellness who have developed a curriculum that is formally integrated into our academic full-days.
  * The program has staff wellness mentors who are available for anything from a check-in, to a “heart-to-heart” or a breakfast after a long night shift.
  * There is dedicated time for group resident wellness activities — sometimes it’s lunch before a dog walk, or sometimes residents hit the rock climbing gym, an escape room, or laser tag. A common resident favourite event is the annual Program Retreat. Each February in Jasper or Kananaskis, residents and staff all get together to review our program, have resident wellness sessions, and enjoy the beautiful surroundings.
  * Comradery among residents is high in the UAlberta Emergency Medicine Program. When not at work, chances are you’ll find a bunch of EM residents hanging out together around the city or going on a trip together. Without exception, Program Directors, staff, and administrators are so understanding of the demands of residency and genuinely want residents to be well throughout their training.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26861?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26861