#  University of British Columbia - Diagnostic Radiology - Vancouver  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Competitive RoS Stream for All  

##  Last approved on September 25, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Leyla Yazdi  
Dr. Will Guest  

Address UBC Radiology Residency  
2775 Laurel Street, 11th Floor  
Vancouver, British Columbia, V5Z 1M9  

Websites of Interest [ UBC Radiology Residency Website
](https://radiology.med.ubc.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Jennifer Wong

Title: Education Programs Manager

Email: radiology.residency@ubc.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

### **CMG candidates who wish to be considered for the competitive RoS stream
must submit an application for the competitive RoS.**



**R-1 training sites:**  There are 3 R-1 training sites; St. Paul's Hospital,
Royal Jubilee Hospital (Victoria) and Royal Columbian Hospital. The PGME Deans
office determines placement by a ranking process or "mini-match" implemented
by the Program Office, based on first, second and third choices submitted by
each resident. A lottery is used to break a tie.  The PGME Dean's Office deems
the site match as non-negotiable and will *not* consider extenuating
circumstances except where a disability exists.  Candidates accepted into the
UBC Radiology Residency Program must be prepared for 2nd and 3rd preferences
including possible relocation to Victoria for the duration of their R-1.



**Casper Test  \- admissions assessments of non-cognitive skills**

All applicants applying to the Diagnostic Radiology residency program at The
University of British Columbia are required to complete the Casper Test
(Acuity Insights), to assist with our selection process. Casper is an online
test that assesses non-cognitive skills and interpersonal characteristics.  

The Casper test comprises of 14 scenarios in 2 main sections: video responses
and typed responses. The test typically takes between 90-110 minutes to
complete. Each response is evaluated by a different rater, giving a very
robust and reliable view of personal and professional characteristics
important to our program. No studying is required for Casper, although you may
want to familiarize yourself with the test structure at
[acuityinsights.app](https://acuityinsights.app/), and ensure you have a quiet
environment to take the test. We strongly urge you to take advantage of the
14-scenario practice test. The practice test simulates the exact experience
and format of your actual Casper test. You can access your practice test by
logging in at my.acuityinsights.app/casper.

Casper test results are valid for one admissions cycle. Applicants who have
already taken the test in previous years will therefore be expected to re-take
it again.

**How to Complete Casper**  

In order to take the Casper Test, you will be responsible for securing access
to a laptop or desktop computer for the duration of the entire test.
Smartphones and tablets including 2-in-1 devices (e.g. Microsoft surface) are
not supported and may experience technical issues.

You will require the following for both account creation and completing
Casper:  

  * Government-issued photo ID
  * Valid email address (the same one you will use to submit your application)
  * A computer (laptop or desktop), either Windows or macOS
  * Working webcam
  * Working microphone
  * Reliable high-speed internet connection
  * The latest version of Chrome or Firefox, other browsers are not supported

Please go to [acuityinsights.app](https://acuityinsights.app/) to sign up for
Acuity Insights for Canadian Postgraduate Medical Education (**CSP-20201 –
Canadian Postgraduate Medical Education) **after selecting Canada as the
country which the school you are applying to resides in.

  1. Register using your CaRMS ID and a piece of government-issued photo ID.  
  2. Select a Casper test date. You will be provided with a limited number of testing dates and times. Please note that these are the only testing dates available for your Casper test. There will be no additional tests scheduled. Please use an email address that you check regularly and that you have used for your application; there may be important updates to the test schedule. 
  3. Important: To account for identity verification and payment processing timeline, ensure that you register for your test at least 3 days before your preferred test date and time. Last-minute bookings are not recommended. 
  4. The Casper test dates for the first iteration match are as follows:
     * September 26, 2024 5pm PDT
     * October 16, 2024 5pm PDT
     * November 5, 2024 5pm PST
  5. Ensure you have**  selected CaRMS for distribution before the posted Distribution Deadline.** Likely, there will be no additional tests scheduled, but the most up to date information can be found by browsing the [Test Dates and Times](https://takealtus.com/dates-times/)  on [acuityinsights.app](https://acuityinsights.app/). 
  6. Please direct any inquiries by using the chat bubble in the bottom right hand corner of your screen on the [acuityinsights.app](https://acuityinsights.app/) website. 

**Accommodations:**  If you require testing accommodations for the Casper Test
you will need to submit the [Accommodations Request
Form](https://acuityinsights.app/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/Acuity-Insights-
Accommodations-Request-Form-2023.pdf) signed by you and your qualified
professional 3 weeks in advance of your desired test date. More information
regarding accommodations can be found
[here.](https://takealtus.com/faq/#accommodations)

* * *

# Return of Service

The Competitive Stream is subject to a Return of Service (ROS). Successfully
matched applicants are required to sign a contract with the Ministry of Health
as a condition of accepting a medical residency position. Templates of the ROS
contract and allocation details can be reviewed on the MOH ROS website here:
[Competitive Stream (Medical Residency
Stream)](https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content?id=91E6BE5924ED4D80BB8FBB0094900CD5
"Competitive Stream \(Medical Residency Stream\)")

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

**IMG applicants only** \- Participation in the UBC Clinical Assessment
Program, CAP, (previously BC IMG Assessment Program) is mandatory for all
IMG’s applying through CaRMS for first-year residency positions.  Please see
the IMG-BC webpage for information about the program and how to apply:
<http://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/resource/clinical-assessment/>.

***Please note that all IMG residents are required to attend a mandatory two
week orientation prior to the start of the program.**

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG applicants:**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



**IMG applicants:**

IMG applicants need not provide evidence of English language testing if the
primary language of medical education or patient care was in English. If the
primary language of medical education or patient care was NOT in English then
applicants must fulfill the English language proficiency requirements by the
start of Ranking Period.



See CPSBC English Language Proficiency Requirements here for more information:
<https://www.cpsbc.ca/files/pdf/REG-ELP.pdf>

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Additional required IMG documents

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

Not applicable for CMG applicants.

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

Not applicable for CMG applicants.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

IMG-BC Clinical Assessment Program

**IMG applicants only** \- The UBC Clinical Assessment Program (CAP) Letter is
provided to CaRMS by UBC IMG Office.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school's policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physicianapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/auth/v2/login/signin?return_to=https%3A%2F%2Fcarms.zendesk.com%2Fhc%2Fen-us%2Farticles%2F360002926232-&theme=hc&locale=en-us&brand_id=2027796&auth_origin=2027796%2Cfalse%2Ctrue) account.

Abstract/Publications

A list of all accepted or in-progress publications is preferred over including
copies of all publications. A sample of a submitted abstract may also be
included.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduate (CMGs), there is no action required
from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to CaRMS on
your behalf for you to assign.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English, you
are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

While there is no required page length, this letter is typically 1 or 2 pages
in length. The letter should highlight why you are interested in Diagnostic
Radiology and touch upon past experiences that would make you a good
candidate.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

_[Note: Photograpah is used as memory aid only]_

Custom Résumé / CV

A copy of your Resume/CV must be included.

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

A copy of the transcript must be included.

Graduate Transcript (Master/PhD Degree)

Required if this degree has been obtained.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 29, 2025
  * January 30, 2025
  * January 31, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: **Interview Dates:**  January 29 - 31,
2025.  
  
*** Please note that the Program Office will eventually contact all applicants
with respect to their interview status. Contacting the Program Administrator /
Director will **NOT** expedite or improve the outcome, and may in fact be
detrimental to obtaining an interview. ***  
  
Interviews will be conducted by members of the Interview Committee, which may
include the chief resident(s), resident representatives, residency Program
Director, faculty members, staff radiologists, etc. Interview questions vary
each year. All interview candidates will be given a chance to speak with
radiology residents not involved in the interview process.  
  
There are no minimum thresholds for the interview selection; the relative
strength of the application pool determines the quality of candidates selected
for interviews.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Short-listed candidates will be
invited for a personal interview which is slated to be conducted
**virtually.**  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates should have an above average academic record. Candidates should
have good clinical and interpersonal skills.

## Program goals

The goal of the UBC Radiology Residency Program is to train well rounded
radiologists capable of working in either community or academic environments,
to serve the imaging and image-guided interventional needs of the patients of
British Columbia and Canada. UBC radiology residency endevours to train
radiologists capable of working equally in both a clinical as well as academic
setting. Our hope is to train radiologists who can act as stewards and leaders
of the specialty for years to come.

## Selection process goals

The selection process goals for UBC radiology residency is to select residents
who have demonstrated an aptitude for academic learning, medicine and
radiology. Additionally, an application package will help to demonstrate a
keen interest in the field of radiology. Residents must want to work in a team
atmosphere and be willing to embrace the many challenges that need to be
overcome during residency. Leadership skill and collaborative ability are
valued, though prior leadership experience is not necessary.

## File review process

Review team composition : Program director, associate program director,
representatives from our major teaching sites (St. Paul’s, Vancouver
General/UBC and BC Children's Hospital [one each]), and both co-chief
residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  past work experience, review of previous awards won   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  reviewed to determine interest in specialty   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Casper Test - admissions assessments of non-cognitive skills   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evaluation for well-roundedness, service to the community   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Review prior leadership positions.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  reviewed to discern medical school performance   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  reviewed.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  reviewed if required   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  reviewed to help gauge interest and exposure to radiology   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  reviewed to determine academic aptitude   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Asssesed via scenario question.   
Collegiality |  Assessed at interview.   
Communication skills |  Performance at interview   
Health advocacy |  Assessed at interview.   
Interest in the discipline |  Via CV and direct questions.   
Interest in the program |  Via CV and direct questions.   
Leadership skills |  Via CV and scenario questions.   
Professionalism |  Performance at interview   
Scholarly activities |  Demonstrates understanding and knowledge of the research they have been involved with.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**R-1 / Transition to Discipline**

This year, as arranged at present, encompasses several facets of clinical
medicine using a standard rotating format in the following disciplines: CTU,
medicine subspecialty, general surgery, surgical subspecialty, ER x2, ICU,
neurology, OB and pediatrics. UBC Radiology offers a day-back curriculum that
runs longitudinally through the R-1 TTD year to help residents gain a basic
understanding of radiology, as well as to feel a stronger connection to their
home program. This occurs on the last Wednesday of every month.  Block 11 of
the TTD year will be dedicated to a Radiology Anatomy Bootcamp. This will also
allow an opportunity for TTD residents to complete certain EPAs that pertain
directly to imaging. Blocks 12 and 13 will consist of multiple “mini-
rotations” to allow residents exposure to the various areas of imaging This
time will provide an opportunity to learn the basics of radiology residency
including dictation, patient RIS, and PACs at various sites. This time will
dovetail into subsequent R-2/foundations.

**R-2 / Foundations**

The first six months of the second year are devoted to obtaining a broad
exposure to diagnostic radiology, covering neuroradiology, chest radiology,
musculoskeletal radiology, abdominal imaging, and emergency and trauma
radiology, through the modalities of CT, radiography, and ultrasound. A
dedicated course in emergencies in radiology is given prior. This block will
emphasize emergent pathologies, with teaching and exposure to situations that
will help support preparation for on-call duties which begins approximately
after 6 months. The remainder of the year is rounded out with additional
rotations including MR, mammography, and nuclear medicine.

**R-3 & 4/ Core**

The third year and fourth years cover a broad spectrum of radiology completing
more of the required rotations in the different subspecialty areas, including
angiography/intervention and pediatric radiology. During this time the
residents start to function more or less as general radiologists under
supervision. The Physics curriculum has been condensed into an intensive one-
year curriculum which is taken by all R3s. Each resident will be required to
enroll in the American Institute of Radiological Pahtology (AIRP) online with
financial support provided from the program. Preparation time for RC exams
will begin in late Core and extend into TTP.

**R-5 / Transition to Practice**

The last year of training can be tailored to the needs of the individual
resident so long as the requirements of the Royal College have been met.
Further training in pediatric radiology, interventional radiology, nuclear
medicine, magnetic resonance imaging, mammography, and oncological radiology
is added to the areas already mentioned. Block periods of training can be
arranged in specific areas according to the interest or needs of the resident.
Rotations at community hospitals and private clinics are also available.
Dedicated time to research projects is available. Rotations will greater
emphasize the transition to becoming a staff radiologist.

**Audits & Research**

Every resident is required to complete a clinical audit project and is
strongly encouraged to pursue at least one research project during their
residency training. To facilitate this process, during the second year of
training the residents will be introduced to the basics of research; data
collection, critical evaluation of information, critical reading of scientific
literature, and the basic principles involved in writing a manuscript. There
is an annual resident research day in late Spring of each year.  Residents are
also expected to complete a Clinical Audit project. The audit project will be
supported by the Vice Chair of Quality. The VC of Quality will meet with all
residents at the start of foundations to help with the creation and initiation
of an audit project.

**Other Academic and Program-Related Info**

Throughout the academic year, there are several internationally known visiting
professors in the department, who hold daily seminars with the residents and
give lectures on topics covering their own special interests. There are daily
hospital noon rounds and weekly evening grand rounds which each resident is
expected to attend. The academic half-day also includes rounds with community
radiologists, practice OSCE exams, and resident-resident teaching rounds.
Journal Club is also active. Each of the major teaching hospitals has hardware
and software for computer-based learning, access to internet and are provided
with subscriptions to RADPrimer and STATdx. We also have an active Wellness
representative on the resident program committee who helps to coordinate
social events for team building and more importantly for fun!



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The program is based at the six UBC affiliated hospitals listed below. The
residents will receive training in the subspecialties of radiology including
nuclear medicine.

Upon completion of the program, the resident will be prepared for clinical,
academic or leadership roles in diagnostic radiology and be able to
demonstrate consultant abilities in the management of patient care.

R-1  
  

This year, as arranged at present, encompasses several facets of clinical
medicine using a standard rotating format in the following disciplines:
Medicine, Surgery, OB/GYN, Pediatrics, Emergency, Family Practice, ICU,
Neurology, Anatomy and an Elective.

R-1 residents will benefit from a monthly return from service lecture series
focused directly on introduction to radiology topics. Additionally, Block 13
is a dedicated radiology anatomy block with access to the Sectra table and
lectures from staff and residents.

  
  

R-2



The first six months of the second year is devoted to obtaining a broad
exposure to diagnostic radiology, covering neuroradiology, chest radiology,
musculoskeletal radiology, abdominal imaging, emergency and trauma radiology,
through the modalities of CT, radiography and ultrasound.  A dedicated course
in emergencies in radiology is given prior to the start of call, which begins
approximately after 6 months.  The remainder of the year is rounded out with
additional rotations including MR, mammography and nuclear medicine.  A
healthcare and epidemiology course is  taken during this year. The residents
also commence their clinical audit project.



  
  

R-3  
  

The third year covers a broad spectrum of radiology completing more of the
required rotations in the different subspecialty areas, including
angiography/intervention and pediatric radiology. In this year the residents
start to function more or less as general radiologists under supervision.  The
Physics curriculum has been condensed into an intensive one-year curriculum
which is taken by all R-3s.



  
  

R-4 and 5  
  

The last two years can be tailored to the needs of the individual resident as
long as the requirements of the Royal College have been met. Further training
in pediatric radiology, interventional radiology, nuclear medicine, magnetic
resonance imaging, mammography and oncological radiology is added to the areas
already mentioned. Block periods of training can be arranged in specific areas
according to the interest or needs of the resident. Rotations at community
hospitals and private clinics are also available. Dedicated time to research
projects is available.







Audits & Research  
  

Every resident is required to complete a clinical audit project and strongly
encouraged to pursue at least one research project during his/her residency
training. To facilitate this process, during the second year of training the
residents will be introduced to the basics of research; data collection,
critical evaluation of information, critical reading of scientific literature
and the basic principles involved in writing a manuscript. There is an annual
resident research day in late Spring of each year.





Other Academic and Program-Related Info



Throughout the academic year we have three or four internationally known
visiting professors in the department for several days, who hold daily
seminars with the residents and give lectures on topics covering their own
special interests. There are daily hospital conferences, and weekly evening
grand rounds which each resident is expected to attend. The academic half-day
also includes rounds with community radiologists, practice OSCE exams, and
resident-resident teaching rounds. Journal Club is also active. Each resident
will be required to enroll in the American Institute of Radiological Pathology
(AIRP) online, with financial support provided by the program. Each of the
major teaching hospitals has hardware and software for computer-based
learning, and residents are provided internet access.

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

Vancouver General Hospital (VGH)

St. Paul's Hospital (SPH)

UBC Hospital (UBCH)

BC Children's Hospital (BCCH)

British Columbia Cancer Agency (BCCA)

Mount Saint Joseph (MSJ)

The Residency Program provides residents with all necessary electronic medical
resources including UBC issued email accounts and a wide selection of
electronic teaching materials (including but not limited to RADPrimer and
STATdx).

  

  

* * *

# Additional Information

Quick Facts

-Opportunities for interprovincial and international electives are available, but the resident must first demonstrate satisfactory progress in the existing clinical program.

-Ratio of residents to faculty is 1 to 2.46

There are currently no mandatory rural rotations. There are elective Community
Hospital rotations: Lions Gate Hospital (LGH) in North Vancouver, Royal
Columbian Hospital (RCH) in New Westminster and Surrey Memorial Hospital (SMH)
in Surrey. Each of these rotations is 4 weeks in duration, and can be tailored
to resident need. The rotation is intended for senior residents.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27228?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27228