#  University of Manitoba - General Surgery - Winnipeg

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Markus Ziesmann  
Dr. Justin Rivard  

Address General Surgery Residency Program  
Room AE107  
820 Sherbrook Street  
Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3A 1M5  

Work  204-787-8043

Fax

Websites of Interest [ General Surgery Postgraduate Program
](https://umanitoba.ca/medicine/department-surgery/general-surgery-residency)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Justin Rivard

Title: Program Director

Email: jrivard@hsc.mb.ca

Phone: 204-787-3123

  

Name: Dr. Marcus Ziesmann

Title: Assistant Program Director

Email: mziesmann@hsc.mb.ca

  

Name: Cathy Hamilton

Title: Program Administrator

Email: gen.surg@umanitoba.ca

Phone: 204-787-8043

  

* * *

# Important Information

The General Surgery Residency Program at the University of Manitoba is
currently fully accredited.

 The **Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation**  for all residents,
**which is MANDATORY** , will be held on Thursday, June 26, 2025.**  
**

**  Competency Based  Education**

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/competence-design-e), aims to enhance
patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving
patient needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education
process.

CBD will use [time as a
framework](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e)
rather than the basis for progression. It is not anticipated that the duration
of training will change for the majority of trainees. Residency programs will
be broken down into
[stages](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/documents/cbd/cbd-competence-
continuum-diagram-legal-e.pdf), and each stage will have a series of
milestones based on required competencies. These milestones will create more
targeted learning outcomes and involve more frequent, formative assessments
within the clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving
feedback on the skills they need.

The Royal College anticipates that all specialty and subspecialty programs in
Canada will adopt CBD in gradual phases. All disciplines have been divided
into seven cohort groups, each of which will adopt CBD at different times. As
our new PGY1s enter training in July, the class of 2024 will be entering into
the Foundations phase.

All CBD programs continue to undergo the same rigorous accreditation processes
as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and traditional programs) will
continue to lead to Royal College approved certification. Certification for
trainees in both CBD and traditional programs will include the completion of a
Royal College examination; however, residents in CBD programs will also be
assessed against program milestones throughout their training. Within a CBD
program, all milestones (documented within an electronic portfolio) and the
Royal College examination must be successfully completed to achieve
certification.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

The General Surgery Residency Program at the University of Manitoba is a
program oriented at developing both community and academic surgeons. Graduates
of our program are successful at attaining the clinical skills in order to go
comfortably into community based practice or to move forward into competitive
fellowships and academic careers. The primary strengths of the program are:

  * Large and diverse clinical case load

  * Large operative volume due to smaller program and fewer fellowship trainees

  * Small program with friendly atmosphere. Staff to Resident Ratio is 1:1

  * Well-equipped skills labs with well-organized courses offered throughout the training in both open and laparoscopic clinical skills

  * Excellent endoscopy exposure with new endoscopy curriculum in development

  * Excellent resuscitation and operative trauma exposure

  * Extensive/broad Acute Care Surgery experience

  * Rural/Urban/Northern community surgery options provide excellent experience for residents interested in community surgery

  * Significant research opportunities within the Section and University in clinical epidemiology/ clinical research/ surgical education/ basic science

  * Option of 1 year of further research training leading to Master's degree (M. Sc),  or 2 years of further research training in the Clinician Investigator Program (CIP)



You are required to fulfill ALL of the most current Provincial Criteria for
Canadian Medical Graduates for Manitoba

The criteria can be found at:  <https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Maximum of three letters of reference are required. Referees must have
knowledge of your clinical and patient care skills as well as your
communication skills, interests and strengths.

References will not be accepted after the CaRMS due date.

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter is required. Indicate current surgical interests and long-
term goals e.g. research, teaching, rural clinical practice etc.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

IMG applicants will not be considered for the 2025-2026 academic year. They
may be considered in the event we go to second iteration.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 27, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: University of Manitoba will be holding
interviews on Monday January 27, 2025 via a virtual format.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The interview process includes a
standardized interview with several interview teams that include General
Surgery Faculty and General Surgery Residents.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Our program is looking for motivated learners who work professionally with
others and are a positive influence within a team environment. A strong
academic background with strong clinical problem solving skills is desired.

When selecting applicants, the Interview Team looks for candidates who have a
strong academic standing as a medical student, reference letters that can
attest to the applicant's knowledge, clinical judgment and moral character,
and a personal letter that clearly outlines why the applicant wishes to pursue
a career in general surgery in Winnipeg. There is no preference given to
school of graduation.

The Department of Surgery at the University of Manitoba is committed to a
fair, equitable, and transparent application process. We maintain the right to
choose the applicants we feel are the best people for our residency training
programs. The above criteria will be used as a baseline to determine who will
be considered for an interview. However, not all applicants whose files meet
our minimum criteria will be offered interviews; only the top candidates will
be offered an interview.

Only candidates whose completed applications have been received by the CaRMS
deadline will be considered for an interview along with demonstrated ability
to be organized as evidenced by a complete application that is in accordance
with our stated expectations.**Extraneous documents are not needed and may
lower your file assessment score.**

## Program goals

Our Mission is to have a strong and vibrant resident body; to develop and
sustain gifted and committed faculty to teach our trainees; and to ensure that
our training program assists learners to achieve their career goals.

We strive to train highly motivated residents in General Surgery through a
rigorous didactic curriculum and high volume of clinical cases. We have a
collegial group of residents and faculty and prioritize a team approach to
practicing medicine. We offer a well-rounded educational experience that
encourages a balanced lifestyle.

By the end of training, we expect to graduate General Surgeons who are
autonomous, safe and ethical surgeons who can work in the community or further
their training with a fellowship. We value our residents and work closely with
them beyond didactic teaching including career counseling at every stage of
training. We form life-long relationships and remain invested in our trainees
beyond graduation.

## Selection process goals

We identify applicants who have demonstrated the following:

  * Interest in General Surgery: We prioritize applicants who have spent time acquiring a broad range of General Surgery exposure and electives.

  * Aptitude and excellence in CanMed roles: As demonstrated through medical school evaluations particularly from non-General Surgery core rotations.

  * Leadership skills: We appreciate experience in both medical and non-medical activities that demonstrate leadership skills.

  * Research interest and experience: Applicants are recommended to acquire some experience in research (e.g. Conference presentations or publications)

  * Balanced lifestyle: We appreciate the vast array of interests outside of medicine and celebrate applicants who can follow their passions while concurrently pursuing academic excellence.

## File review process

Review team composition : Applications are reviewed individually by both a
General Surgery Faculty Member and one General Surgery Resident.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Honours and Awards   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  General Surgery Electives   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Undergraduate medical exam scores are reviewed   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteer Experience; Activities & Interests   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Extra-curricular activities that demonstrate the pursuit of leadership skills are valued   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Supervisor Comments   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Long Term Goals, Surgical Interests   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Clinical Judgment, Work Ethic, Enthusiasm, Team Performance; Referee's Overall Assessment   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Publications and Presentations; Interest in Research   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic Performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Working as a team player   
Collegiality |  Respectful to all   
Communication skills |  Communication with patients, colleagues and interdisciplinary health professionals   
Health advocacy |  Encompasses direct service to the individual or family   
Interest in the discipline |  Enthusiasm for surgery   
Interest in the program |  Interest in the City of Winnipeg and Province of Manitoba   
Leadership skills |  Initiative   
Professionalism |  Attitude   
Scholarly activities |  Interest in research   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

# **Overview**

### The University of Manitoba Training Program in General Surgery is
dedicated to training and developing fully qualified and competent general
surgeons who are ethically and morally sound and who dedicate themselves to
the high standards of surgical practice and who contribute to the provision of
total patient care.

### The scope of General Surgery is very broad and the types of practice will
vary considerably. The Program is designed to provide the core training to
allow a trained surgeon to pursue either further academic fellowship training
or transition to a community based general surgical practice in an
urban/rural/remote setting.

# **Curriculum**

### The General Surgery Training Program at the University of Manitoba offers
a five-year general surgery residency leading to examination in the RCPSC
discipline of General Surgery.

### We offer an optional sixth year to attain a Master's of Science in
Surgery. If desired a seventh year may be completed in the Clinician
Investigator Program(CIP) offered through the Faculty of Medicine.

### The Program begins with two-years of basic clinical training experience
through the Surgical Foundations Program. These clinical years consist of
broad-based clinical experiences that are in accordance to the Royal College
of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada guidelines (see the Royal College website
for more information on the objectives of Core Training in Surgery). A weekly
seminar series, recommended reading program, and surgical skills courses are
provided to supplement the clinical experience and assist in preparation of
the Surgical Foundations (SF) Examination written in a resident's second year
of training.

### The PGY-3 through PGY-5 years are clinical training years devoted to
training in General Surgery as outlined by the RCPSC guidelines(see the Royal
College website for more information on the objectives of training in General
Surgery). There are opportunities for electives and training is offered in
both subspecialty and community based rotations. At the end of 5 clinical
years successful residents sit the qualifying examination in May(written exam)
and June(oral examination) distributed by the RCPSC.

### The Master's of Science in Surgery program is an option available in Year
3. This is one year of additional training designed to grant surgical
residents a year to complete a research project of their own design under the
mentorship of a senior investigator. Didactic courses in research methodology
and statistics as per the Master's program are completed during this academic
year. Residents are required to perform minimal call duties in order to retain
clinical skills. The purpose of the program is to encourage the development of
surgical clinical investigators, who will become the academic leaders of
surgery in the future. Residents must request, in writing, their desire to
complete this additional training to the Program Director. Registration in the
University of Manitoba Faculty of Graduate Studies is required. This one-year
training period is salary-funded.

### The Clinician Investigator Program is an option typically available to
residents after completing their Master's of Science in Surgery. This research
training program is offered through the Faculty of Medicine and consists of
further research training over the course of one year with the ability to
further research projects over this time period. Similar to the Master's year,
residents are free of clinical duties except for a minimal amount of call
coverage to retain clinical skills. Applications are required and are granted
by the CIP program based upon merit. Further information on the CIP program is
available at
http://umanitoba.ca/faculties/medicine/research/grad_undergrad/CIP.html

# **PGY-1 and PGY- 2 Clinical Rotations**

### 2 Block - Gold Trauma Service, Health Sciences Centre

### 2 Block - Acute Care Surgical Service (ACSS), St. Boniface Hospital

### 2-4 Blocks - Minimally Invasive Surgery (A Service) or Colorectal General
Surgery (B Service), St. Boniface Hospital

### 2-4 Blocks - Surgical Oncology (Green Service) or Hepatobiliary Surgery
(Orange Service), Health Sciences Centre

### 2 Blocks - Community, Health Sciences Centre (Silver Service)

### 2 Block - Pediatric Surgery, Health Sciences Centre Children's Hospital

### 1 Block - Thoracic Surgery, Health Sciences Centre

### 2 Block - Surgical Selective:

  * ### Orthopedic Surgery, Health Sciences Centre

  * ### Plastic Surgery, Health Sciences Centre

  * ### Neurosurgery, Health Sciences Centre

  * ### Head & Neck Oncology Surgery, Health Sciences Centre

  * ### Pediatric General Surgery, Children's Hospital, Health Sciences Centre

  * ### Otolaryngology, Health Sciences Centre or St. Boniface Hospital

### 1 Block - Gastroenterology, Health Sciences Centre of St. Boniface
Hospital

### 1 Block - Critical Care - Surgical Intensive Care (SICU), Health Sciences
Centre

### 1 Block, Critical Care, Medical/Surgical Medical Intensive Care (ICMS) St.
Boniface Hospital

### 1 Block - Research

### 2 Block - Vacation (28 days) - Can be taken in 28, 14 or 7 day blocks



#  

###  

# **PGY-3 Clinical Rotations**

### 1 Block - Gold Trauma Service, Health Sciences Centre

### 1 Block - Acute Care Surgical Service (ACSS), St. Boniface Hospital

### 4 Blocks - General Surgery:

  * ### Minimally Invasive Surgery (A Service), St. Boniface Hospital

  * ### Colorectal General Surgery (B Service), St. Boniface Hospital

  * ### Surgical Oncology (Green Service), Health Sciences Centre

  * ### Hepatobiliary Surgery (Orange Service), Health Sciences Centre

### 3 Blocks - Gastrointestinal / Endoscopy, Health Sciences Centre

### 1 Block - Vascular Surgery, Health Sciences Centre or St. Boniface
Hospital

### 1 Block - Elective Rotation

### 1 Block - Vacation (28 days) - Can be taken in 28, 14 or 7 day blocks



# **PGY-4 Clinical Rotations**

### 1 Block - Gold Trauma Service, Health Sciences Centre

### 1 Block - Acute Care Surgical Service (ACSS), St. Boniface Hospital

### 2 Blocks - Surgical Oncology (Green Service, Health Sciences Centre

### 3 Blocks - Chief Resident General Surgery:

  * ### Minimally Invasive Surgery (A Service), St. Boniface Hospital

  * ### Colorectal General Surgery (B Service), St. Boniface Hospital

  * ### Surgical Oncology (Green Service), Health Sciences Centre

  * ### Hepatobiliary Surgery (Orange Service), Health Sciences Centre

### 2 Blocks - Community General Surgery (various sites in Winnipeg and
outside of Winnipeg)

### 3 Blocks - Electives

### 1 Block - Vacation (28 days) - Can be taken in 28, 14 or 7 day blocks

###  

# **PGY-5 Clinical Rotations**

### 1 Block - Gold Trauma Service, Health Sciences Centre

### 1 Block - Acute Care Surgical Service (ACSS), St. Boniface Hospital

### 1 Block - Breast Surgery, Health Sciences Centre

### 1 Block \- Head & Neck Oncology Surgery, Health Sciences Centre

### 4 Blocks - General Surgery:

  * ### Minimally Invasive Surgery (A Service), St. Boniface Hospital

  * ### Colorectal General Surgery (B Service), St. Boniface Hospital

  * ### Surgical Oncology (Green Service), Health Sciences Centre

  * ### Hepatobiliary Surgery (Orange Service), Health Sciences Centre

### 4 Blocks - Transition to Practice

### 1 Block - Vacation (28 days) - Can be taken in 28, 14 or 7 day blocks



### Residents at PGY-3 and above are considered 'senior' residents. This
entails a greater responsibilty for the 'running' of the service, more
independence in patient management, and increased responsibilty and
opportunities in the operating room, leading to clinical competence. Senior
residents are expected to provide leadership to the 'junior' residents on the
service and provide additional education to medical students and junior
residents.



# **Academic and Scholarly Aspects of the Program**

### One day per week is devoted to educational activities.

### Regular rounds are given by each teaching service consisting of relevant
topic review and 'interesting cases'. Time is given for extensive discussion
with residents and attending General Surgeons to allow for elaboration and
learning on broad topics.

### The regular rounds sessions include weekly:

  * ### Surgical Oncology rounds

  * ### Complication Rounds

  * ### Combined General Surgery/GI rounds

  * ### Combined General Surgery/Emergency Medicine Trauma Rounds

  * ### HPB Radiology rounds.

### In addition Departmental Rounds are offered weekly through the academic
year and each teaching service has weekly rounds to review all cases from the
service.

### Half of the academic day consists of protected academic time. Our academic
series consists of lectures, trauma simulation, as well as mock oral
examinations for senior residents.

### In addition, there is a surgical skills curricula which consists of both
didactic and skills labs to teach general surgical skills in both open and
laparoscopic surgery (sessions described below).

### Journal Club is offered monthly in the academic year and is both an
educational and social activity for attending General Surgeons and residents.
The goal of the journal club is to promote critical appraisal of the
literature and stimulate discussion on current topics. A different venue is
chosen each month and dinner is served.



# **Surgery Skills Laboratory Courses**

### 1\. Introduction to Basic Surgical Skills

### 2\. Endoscopy skills course

### 3\. Gut Suture and Anastomosis

### 4\. Introductory Minimally Invasive Surgery

### 5\. Advanced Minimally Invasive Surgery - Hiatal Hernia, Bowel Resection

### 6\. Course in Hernia Surgery - Open and Laparoscopic

### 7\. Vascular Skills Course



# **Research Activities**

### All residents must participate in research activities coordinated by the
Program Director and Research Coordinator. Dedicated time can be allocated in
each training year to assist residents in meeting their requirements.  

### The Department of Surgery hosts an annual Resident Research Day in
January.

### The General Surgery Program hosts an Annual Resident Research Day in
April.

### The program provides support for residents to present their research at
major scientific national and international meetings.

###  

# Social Activities and Resident Well Being

### The General Surgery Program at the University of Manitoba is committed to
the well being of our residents. Annual social/resident well being activities
include:

  * ### Welcome BBQ held in August

  * ### Resident Retreat - Weekend retreat funded by program and organized by residents to focus on professionalism, team building and fun held in September

  * ### Journal Clubs - Both learning and social activities

  * ### Annual Research Day Dinner - Awards night and dinner for all residents/staff

### In addition, Postgraduate Medical Education, Max Rady College of Medicine
holds an all day Resident Wellness Retreat in November.



* * *

# Training Sites

# **Major Teaching Sites - Winnipeg**

  * ### Winnipeg Health Sciences Centre (HSC)

  * ### St Boniface Hospital

  * ### Children's Hospital, Health Sciences Centre

  * ### CancerCare Manitoba

  * ### Breast Health Centre

  * ### Other Community Hospitals in Winnipeg (Grace General Hospital/Seven Oaks General Hospital/Concordia Hospital)

# **Hospitals outside of Winnipeg**

  * ### Selkirk and District Community Hospital, Selkirk, Manitoba

  * ### Boundary Trails Hospital (Morden/Winkler), Winkler, Manitoba

* * *

# Additional Information

### Winnipeg is a city offering great arts and culture, neighbourhoods,
recreational activities for all seasons and spectator sports.

### Winnipeg is located in the centre of Canada and offers great accesibility
by air and car.  A less than 5 hour direct flight can take you to the beaches
of Mexico!

### Winnipeg offers competitive taxes, affordable housing, and low utility
rates.

### For more information on the City of Winnipeg, Province of Manitoba and
Ontario Lake of the Woods please visit the websites provided below:

### **[Tourism Winnipeg](http://www.winnipeg.ca/interhom/)**  

### **[Travel Manitoba](https://www.travelmanitoba.com/)**

### **[Moving to Winnipeg](http://www.winnipeg.ca/interhom/guide/)**

### **[Living in Winnipeg](http://www.economicdevelopmentwinnipeg.com/why-
winnipeg/living-here)**

### **[Moving to Manitoba](http://residents.gov.mb.ca/moving.html)**

### **[The Forks - Winnipeg's Meeting Place](http://www.theforks.com/)**

### **[Winnipeg Jets NHL Team](https://www.nhl.com/jets)**

### **[Winnipeg Blue Bombers CFL Team](https://www.bluebombers.com/)**

### **[Winnipeg Goldeyes American Association of Independent Professional
Baseball Team](http://goldeyes.com/)**

### **[Canada's Royal Winnipeg Ballet](https://www.rwb.org/)**

### **[Royal Manitoba Theatre Centre](http://www.royalmtc.ca/)**

### **[Winnipeg Symphony Orchestra](https://wso.ca/)**

### **[Winnipeg Fringe Festival](http://www.winnipegfringe.com/)**

### **[Winnipeg Jazz Festival](http://jazzwinnipeg.com/)**

### **[Festival du Voyageur](https://festivalvoyageur.mb.ca/)**

### **[Beaches of the Southeast Coast of Lake
Winnipeg](http://www.eastshorerealty.ca/listings/beaches-area.html)**

### **[Ontario Lake of the
Woods](https://www.northernontario.travel/fishing/10-facts-about-lake-of-the-
woods)**  



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26989?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26989