#  University of Manitoba - Family Medicine integrated Clinician Scholar -
Winnipeg  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 12, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Leah Peters  

Address Family Medicine  
University of Manitoba  
P228-770 Bannatyne Avenue  
Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3E 0W3  

Websites of Interest [ Provincial Criteria for Manitoba:
](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/manitoba/)  
[ About Our Program:
](http://umanitoba.ca/healthsciences/medicine/units/family_medicine/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Tamara Buchel

Title: Postgraduate Program Director

  

Name: Shannon Rankin

Title: Postgraduate Program Coordinator

Email: shannon.rankin@umanitoba.ca

  

Name: Dr. Alexander Singer

Title: Co-Lead

  

Name: Lisa Labine

Title: Co-Lead

  

* * *

# Important Information

The University of Manitoba campuses are located on original lands of
Anishinaabeg, Cree, Oji-Cree, Dakota, and Dene peoples, and on the homeland of
the Métis Nation. The Department of Family Medicine additionally participates
in clinical programs in Inuit communities. We respect the Treaties and
Agreements that were made on these territories, we acknowledge the harms and
mistakes of the past, and we dedicate ourselves to move forward in partnership
with Indigenous communities in a spirit of reconciliation and collaboration.



**ZOOM INFORMATION SESSIONS:**

CaRMS General Overview session:  Thursday, November 14 from 7:00-8:30pm CST
via Zoom.

**Main Program Overview Zoom Link:**

<https://umanitoba.zoom.us/j/65400352768?pwd=F3Mg29YkJ3dbJRr64a4c0nLIYZNPKm.1>



 **Urban Deep Dive Zoom Session:**

<https://umanitoba.zoom.us/meeting/register/u5Asf-ytqj0jEtFm_xG0dJA-6DsQX-
YfpoCh> **Lead Resident Hosted Q &A Session:** December 4
<https://umanitoba.zoom.us/meeting/register/u5wqceitqj8jGdY0qYbQyI6rwtQmBf4mDrUG>
December 11
<https://umanitoba.zoom.us/meeting/register/u5wrdO6pqDsiHtJQsk0cYSRps04Ei3XfQoS1>  
---  
  
**MANDATORY ORIENTATION SESSIONS:**

The mandatory full day **Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation**  for all
residents will be held on Thursday, June 26, 2025

The mandatory full day **Family Medicine Residency Orientation  **will be held
on Friday, June 27, 2025



**Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS)**

Prior to the commencement of training, matched applicants must provide proof
of ACLS certification that is current as of July 1, 2024. The ACLS Provider
course must be certified by the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada or the
American Heart Association. ACLS training that is not certified by one of
these two organizations and/or is completed entirely through an online course
will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for all costs associated with
obtaining ACLS certification. We provide a re-certification course in your
second year of residency prior to graduation.



**Family Medicine Professional Choices (FMProC)**

The Family Medicine Professional Choices (FMProC) testing is mandatory for all
applicants. It is a situational judgement test designed to evaluate your
professional reasoning, communication skills and aptitude for responding
effectively to diverse clinical situations. It primarily consists of two types
of questions: ranking and rating scenarios.

FMProC registration for the first round of CaRMS 2025 will be open on
September 11, 2024. More details: <https://fmproc.com/>

Situational judgement tests are designed to assess applicant’s judgement
regarding situations encountered in the workplace or during training.
Applicants are presented with a set of hypothetical based scenarios and asked
to make judgements about possible responses. Applicants responses are
evaluated against a pre-determined scoring key to provide a picture of their
situational judgement in that particular context.

The development and modification of the scenarios in FMProC involved input
from several leaders with different perspectives, roles and experiences. This
included family physicians, educators, family medicine residents and medical
students, Indigenous health, rural and remote family medicine, 2SLGBTQ+, anti-
racism, international medical graduates and more. This specifically included
groups under-represented in medicine to ensure, as much as possible, that no
group is disadvantaged by the test format or content.

**Resident Home Location and Travel Requirements**

As a resident in the urban stream, you will be expected to maintain a
residence in Winnipeg**.**

**Vacation Allowance**

Vacation in PGY1 can be taken in the following ways:

  * Two weeks in each of two blocks in conjunction with an approved elective or Family Medicine Block Time in the remaining two weeks of the same blocks
  * Vacation in 1 week blocks can be taken during Family Medicine Block Time
  * One 4 week vacation block

_*Vacation is not allowed in Block 1 in PGY1.  _

Though the program tries to accommodate residents’ specific vacation period
requests, constraints of scheduling often requires flexibility and not all
requests will be approved.

* * *

# Return of Service

All IMGs will be required to sign a return of service contract with Manitoba
Health, in the specialty (including Family Medicine) in which they have
completed residency training. The ROS commitment is commensurate with the
length of the training program. All IMGs entering a training program already
holding a return of service obligation must disclose this obligation at the
time of application. IMGs who have an undischarged return of service
obligation may not be eligible to begin training in a position funded by
Manitoba Health. Such individuals may wish to contact Shared Health at [pmao-
residents@sharedhealthmb.ca](mailto:pmao-residents@sharedhealthmb.ca) for more
information.  
---  
  
* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

**You are required to fulfill ALL of the most current Provincial Criteria for
Canadian Medical Graduates for Manitoba.**

The criteria can be found at:  <https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/>





Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

All residents will be required to disclose their MCCQE1 examination results
whenever available. The purpose of this disclosure is to allow for resources
to be provided to the few residents who would benefit from extra support early
in their residency in an effort to maximize their success.



NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).



Optional - will be reviewed

MCCQE Part II

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part II - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part II - Supplemental Information Report

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Three (3) Family Medicine Structured Reference Letters are required. Please
select supervisors, preceptors or other individuals who have had ample
opportunity to assess you as a candidate for Family Medicine. Ideally one of
your letters should be from a family physician but this is not mandatory.

All three (3) Family Medicine Structured Reference Letters must be current and
dated on or after January 1, 2024. Undated reference letters will not be
accepted.  Do not arrange for more than three (3) Family Medicine Structured
Reference Letters as additional letters will not be reviewed.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

A personal letter is required. We are looking for mature, enthusiastic
physicians who bring with them a broad range of life experiences, are
committed to providing excellent patient care and can embrace the depth and
breadth of experiences our program offers.

In 500 words or less, please address the following areas:  What life
experiences demonstrate your adaptability, team skills, leadership potential,
and sense of compassion?  Why do you feel the University of Manitoba would be
the right choice for you?  In what ways are you connected to Manitoba?

Custom Résumé / CV

Include a current CV in the Custom Resume section.  Please tailor your resume
to provide us with a better understanding of your experiences and commitment
to Family Medicine.

Conditionally required

Proof of registration as a clinical assistant or allied health professional in
Canada

If you are or have been employed in Canada as a Clinical Assistant or as an
Allied Health Professional, you must provide supporting documentation of
registration as a Clinical Assistant or other Allied Health Professional.

Optional - will be reviewed

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Self-identification questionnaire

  * The University of Manitoba, Rady Faculty of Health Sciences promotes and supports a community that embraces equity, diversity and inclusion, provides for equality of opportunity and recognizes the dignity of all people. These are key values to create an inclusive community for all. The University encourages applications from Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women, persons of a minority sexual orientation and/or gender identity, and all candidates who would contribute to the diversity of our community.
  * We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self-Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete confidentiality. We are in the data collection phase currently.  Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self-identification questionnaire, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so, the information received would only be used for program selection improvement in future years. It will not be used for selection purposes this year. Any self-identification questionnaires received will NOT be reviewed as part of our file review process or used as an aid for file reviewers for the 2024 match.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applicants must apply to, and rank each of the University of Manitoba Family
Medicine programs individually. There is one central review process.

The same personal letter should be used for all University of Manitoba Family
Medicine applications.

There will be only one interview irrespective of the number of programs to
which you apply; there may be specific additional questions based on your
program interests.

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: Tuesday, January 21, 2025  
  
Wednesday, January 22, 2025  
  
Thursday, January 23, 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Applicants who are invited for
interview will participate in one structured interview, regardless of the
number of sites to which you have applied. The structured interview may have
questions specific to the sites to which you have applied.  
  
The interview is conducted as a 3-person panel interview and typically
consists of 1 physician, 1 interprofessional faculty member, and 1 resident.  
  
Candidates will be invited to attend one of the three interview days. The
interview itself lasts 30 to 40 minutes.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The Department of Family Medicine at the University of Manitoba is committed
to a fair, equitable, and transparent selection process.

To address the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences commitment to equity, diversity
and inclusion we take proactive measures including implicit bias training for
all selection committees. We strive for diversity and cultural safety
throughout the process (hiring panels, short-list of candidates, interviews).
We encourage you to self-identify any aspect of diversity in your personal
statement.

In assessing eligible IMG applicants, The Department of Family Medicine will
ordinarily consider applicants who have completed their undergraduate medical
education within the preceding 10 years, unless the applicant has completed a
residency in Family Medicine and/or is actively engaged in generalist
practice. Of all such eligible applicants, approximately one third of all
applicants, and no less than 300, shall be selected for file review based upon
a composite score generated from the following:

\- the z-score of MCCQE Part I

\- the better z-score of NAC or the MCCQE Part II

Of those applicants selected for file review, approximately 100-150 applicants
will be selected for interview including all residents of Manitoba, and all
other IMG applicants based upon a composite score generated from the z-score
of MCCQE Part I plus the better z-score of NAC or the MCCQE Part II and file
review score.

Rank order lists will be created for each stream's IMG positions based on the
following formulaic approach:

\- z-score of MCCQE Part I plus the better z-score of NAC or the MCCQE Part II
(20% weighting)

\- file review score (30% weighting)

\- FMProC score (20%)

\- Interview score (30% weighting).

Preference may be given to residents of Manitoba, or individuals who have
identified a genuine commitment to Manitoba.

Applicants who are invited for interview will participate in one structured
interview, regardless of the number of sites to which you have applied. The
structured interview may have questions specific to the sites to which you
have applied.

## Program goals

The University of Manitoba is committed to the social justice principles of
equity, access and participation and to promoting opportunities for
systemically marginalized groups who have been excluded from full
participation at the University and the larger community including Indigenous,
Black, racially marginalized Peoples, persons with disabilities and those who
identify as 2SLGBTQIA+ (Two Spirit, lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans,
questioning, intersex, asexual and other diverse sexual identities) and women.

A broad knowledge base and clinical skill sets enable family physicians to
work in diverse settings such as patients' homes, outpatient clinics,
emergency departments, labour and delivery suites, hospital wards, and nursing
homes. Family medicine often serves as the main entry point to the health care
system and the hub that provides continuity of care throughout the life cycle.
As such, family medicine is the central medical discipline. The importance of
primary care in quality of health and the value Canadian society places on
family physicians in the delivery of this care are well known.

The goal of our residency program is to train family physicians who are able
to provide comprehensive, high quality, continuous care in urban, rural, or
remote settings.

## Selection process goals

An inclusive, open and diverse community is essential to excellence and
fosters voices that have been ignored or discouraged. To address the Rady
Faculty of Health Sciences commitment to equity, access and participation, and
in recognition of the underrepresentation of members of historically and
currently excluded groups,  our program has taken the following proactive
measures as part of our selection process:

Implicit bias training for all selection committee members, diverse
representation of selection committee members, inclusion of interview
questions targeted to assess applicant commitment to EDIA, offering necessary
accommodations during the interview process, second pass/review of applicants
below interview and rank order list cut off to review for possible bias in
scoring, orientation to all assessors to scoring rubrics, file review
completed by dedicated, trained group.

We strive for diverse perspectives and cultural safety throughout the hiring
process (resident selection committees, short-list of applicants, interviews).
We ask all applicants to include an EDIA statement in their personal letter
with evidence demonstrating their own commitment to EDIA in their work and
training thus far.

## File review process

Review team composition : The file review teams consist of Family Medicine
physicians, current residents and interprofessional faculty.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 601 +  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Comprehensive and well organized document   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Family Medicine or broad range of interests   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  See examinations & additional documents   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Well rounded activities other than academics   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Initiative and able to problem solve   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evaluate according to the info provided by school   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  500 words or less   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  3 standardized reference letters   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Variety   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evaluate according to info provided by school   
Other file component(s) |  Familiarity with the Canadian Health Care System. Identifies interest in Family Medicine.  
  
We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self-
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self-
identification questionnaire, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so,
the information received would only be used for program selection improvement
in future years. It will not be used for selection purposes this year. Any
self-identification questionnaires received will NOT be reviewed as part of
our file review process or used as an aid for file reviewers for the 2024
match.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

An elective in Family Medicine either in Manitoba or elsewhere, completed
before file review, is not required for application to the University of
Manitoba Family Medicine Programs. However, we are looking for a demonstration
of interest in, and commitment to Family Medicine.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Interprofessional collaboration   
Collegiality |  Treats others with respect & knows professional boundaries   
Communication skills |  Ability to listen and communicate in a clear manner   
Health advocacy |  Affirming and sharing the vision and values of health promotion   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrates genuine interest through electives, extra curricular activities, volunteering, etc.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrates ongoing commitment to Family Medicine   
Leadership skills |  Ability to guide and help others   
Professionalism |  Carry themselves in a professional manner   
Scholarly activities |  Pursuing further education, previous accomplishments   
Other interview component(s) |  Commitment to underserved populations, resilience   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

# Overview of Department

#### <https://umanitoba.ca/medicine/department-family-medicine>

The University of Manitoba is committed to the social justice principles of
equity, access & participation and to promoting opportunities for systemically
marginalized groups who have been excluded from full participation at the
University and the larger community including Indigenous, Black, racially
marginalized Peoples, persons with disabilities and those who identify as
2SLGBTQIA+ (Two Spirit, lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, questioning, intersex,
asexual and other diverse sexual identities) and women.

For more than 40 years, the University of Manitoba’s Department of Family
Medicine has been positively influencing the health of individuals, families
and communities across Manitoba. Through clinical work, teaching and
innovative research, family medicine is making a difference.

We offer residents the chance to learn with interprofessional faculty, such as
dietitians, pharmacists, nurse practitioners and other health care
professionals. This collaborative learning model teaches our students and
residents the basic principles of health care professions, when to use them in
their care of patients and how to make appropriate referrals.

This program, accredited by the College of Family Physicians of Canada,
promotes whole-person medicine through a combination of patient-centred care
and structured seminars. During clerkship, learners are distributed in over 20
communities throughout Manitoba.

Family Medicine is a wide-ranging discipline, with the chance to impact a
diverse spectrum of patients in various communities. Manitoba is one of the
most diverse provinces in the country, providing an excellent opportunity to
work with patients from a variety of backgrounds.

  

## Training Passionate Family Physicians

After completing a four-year undergraduate degree in Medicine, students who
enter the two-year Family Medicine residency choose a learning stream tailored
to their practice interests.

Here is a video with a general overview of our Family Medicine Program at the
University of Manitoba.

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5vieoIArQFM&list=PLCNj2OCRLILF6vOq6gtxYSY3_M-
wuE57r&index=6](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5vieoIArQFM&list=PLCNj2OCRLILF6vOq6gtxYSY3_M-
wuE57r&index=6)

### Streams:

  * Urban
  * Northern Remote
  * Northern Thompson
  * Bilingual
  * Rural - Boundary Trails
  * Rural - Brandon
  * Rural - Interlake Eastern
  * Rural - Neepawa
  * Rural - Parkland
  * Rural - Portage la Prairie
  * Rural - Steinbach
  * Integrated Clinician Scholar (3 year program)

 Each stream provides a broad and balanced experience that prepares well-
rounded family physicians who can practice with confidence in a variety of
settings.

## Enhanced Training

In addition to the postgraduate program, Family Medicine also offers enhanced
skills training which allows Family Medicine doctors to continually shape and
reshape their careers. Enhanced training is available in the following areas:

  * Addictions
  * FM Anesthesia
  * Cancer Care
  * Care of the Elderly
  * Emergency Medicine
  * Obstetrical Surgical Skills
  * Palliative Care
  * Sports & Exercise Medicine

This training requires an additional 6–12 months of study. Residents finishing
their second year and practicing family physicians may apply.

## Inspiring Young Minds - Our Faculty

The Department of Family Medicine has over 500 faculty members who excel at
sharing knowledge, building competencies, and maximizing learning
opportunities for students.

Our faculty are integral participants in all stages of medical education. Some
have major Undergraduate teaching roles, providing comprehensive Family
Medicine and generalist content as well as their unique perspectives on health
care.

## Integrative Medicine in Residency Program Option

The Integrative Medicine in Residency (IMR) program is a two-year program of
study exploring the integration of Complementary and Alternative therapies
with conventional family practice in an evidence-based manner. This program is
being offered in conjunction with the University of Arizona Center for
Integrative Medicine, and is a 200-hour, interactive web-based curriculum that
is completed longitudinally alongside the Family Medicine residency program.
This program option is available to residents in all streams. Visit the
[Integrative Medicine in Residency
Program](http://umanitoba.ca/faculties/health_sciences/medicine/units/family_medicine/postgrad/integrative-
med.html) page for full details.

## Innovative Research

The Department of Family Medicine provides exciting opportunities to perform
research with practical outcomes on the health of Canadians. The department
promotes and supports the development of research skills and provides
workshops to all Family Medicine residents.

# **Courses Offered for Residents in Family Medicine***

**Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS)**

Prior to the commencement of training, matched applicants must provide proof
of ACLS certification that is current as of July 1, 2024. The ACLS Provider
course must be certified by the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada or the
American Heart Association. ACLS training that is not certified by one of
these two organizations and/or is completed entirely through an online course
will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for all costs associated with
obtaining ACLS certification. We provide a re-certification course in your
second year of residency prior to graduation.

**Advances in Labour and Risk Management (ALARM)**

We mandate ALARM training during the residency and provide reimbursement upon
successful completion.

**Advanced Trauma Life Support (ATLS)**

We mandate ATLS training during the residency and provide reimbursement upon
successful completion for all non-urban residents.

**Indigenous Cultures Awareness Workshop (ICAW)**

We mandate ICAW training during residency.

**Neonatal Resuscitation Program (NRP)**

We mandate NRP during residency and provide reimbursement upon successful
completion.

**Ultrasound Curriculum**

Ultrasound curriculum is mandatory and provided for all residents.

_*subject to change_



# **Scholarly Curriculum***

Scholarly activities in our program include:

\- participation in monthly Journal Clubs

\- presentations at patient case rounds and regular guideline appraisals

\- didactic teaching  

- formal Quality Improvement curriculum

\- Critical Appraisal assignments

\- PEARLS exercises as offered through the College of Family Physicians of
Canada

\- Academic Days throughout the year

\- additional core curriculum as mandated by PGME for all postgraduate program
residents

_* subject to change_

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 3 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

This residency program is for 3 years. In addition to the standard 24 months
of Family Medicine residency training, the program will include 12 months of
Clinician Scholar training, scheduled within the 36 months of training.

**FAMILY MEDICINE**

You will be attached to one of the four urban academic teaching units in
Family Medicine and will select (or be paired) with at least one Family
Medicine Clinician Scholar Program (FM-CSP) Supervisor, based on area(s) of
interest, past research or QI experience and training.

[https://entrada.radyfhs.umanitoba.ca/api/serve-learning-
object.api.php?id=1916&filename=DFM_Brochure_and_Rotations_Urban.pdf&community_id=265](https://entrada.radyfhs.umanitoba.ca/api/serve-
learning-
object.api.php?id=1916&filename=DFM_Brochure_and_Rotations_Urban.pdf&community_id=265)

Experiences in Family Medicine include office-based care, home visits, caring
for patients admitted to hospital and following maternity patients through
pregnancy and delivery. In addition to training in full-service Family
Medicine, the goal of the FM-CSP is to assist in career development of family
physicians with an added competency to perform multidisciplinary and
community-based scholarship. This may include work in academic and/or
community-based environments conducting research and quality improvement that
contributes to the knowledge and innovation in primary health care for diverse
communities. Didactic education will be provided in collaboration with the
University of Manitoba, Royal College of Canada certified Clinical
Investigator Program (CIP) during devoted rotations.



The FM-CSP didactic curriculum is tailored to enhance research and QI skills
and will focus on supporting individual scholarly interests, learning needs
and career objectives. Specific program activities will be organized through
coursework, workshops and focused reading to develop competence in the domains
of knowledge creation, knowledge translation, research education and
leadership. Additional competencies specific to clinician scientists in the
areas of research ethics and professionalism, along with meta-cognitive
competencies such as conceptually integrating clinical family practice
experience with research activities and reflective practice will also be
incorporated.



Skills will be developed further through completion of a research (or QI)
project within the time frame of residency on a specific topic agreed upon by
the FM-CSP candidate and CSP Supervisor. A research proposal outlining the
research/inquiry to be conducted must be completed within the first two to
three months of the second year of the three year FM-CSP.



The FM-CSP is a comprehensive program providing an opportunity to integrate
clinical and scholarly development in the areas of most interest to
candidate(s).

* * *

# Training Sites

### **Urban Training Sites Video:**

#### <https://youtu.be/xlPTG7sR-CQ>

#### **Major Strengths of the Urban Stream**

#### We provide:

  * #### Busy teaching units with individualized teaching by your primary preceptor.

  * #### 5 months of Family Medicine Block Time (FMBT) in first year allows for continuity with a defined panel of patients.

  * #### Generous Self-Directed Learning time scheduled during FMBT.

  * #### EMR \- All clinics utilize an EMR in the daily care and management of their patients.

  * #### Winnipeg is one of the most culturally diverse cities in Canada. Some 100 languages are spoken and Winnipeg is known for its cultural achievements, amazing restaurants and flourishing arts scene.  More information about the city can be found under Additional Information section.

#### **Training Sites:**  

#### Your training as an Urban Family Medicine resident will be through one of
four busy family medicine teaching units in Winnipeg.

### **1) Kildonan Medical Centre**

#### Kildonan Medical Centre (KMC) is a WRHA affiliated clinic established in
1981 and located in North-West Winnipeg located on the main floor of Seven
Oaks General Hospital.

#### SOGH is a key provider of health care to people mainly in the northwest
Winnipeg as well as other parts of Winnipeg and beyond. The hospital is an
accredited sub-acute care facility, a major provider of Urgent Care services,
a hub for Kidney Health services and has a large commitment to Family
Medicine. The sub-acute medicine inpatient units are run by the Family
Medicine Program of the Winnipeg Regional Health Authority, of which the KMC
physicians are members. Family physicians provide the inpatient services to
individuals who are admitted to these units mostly through the Urgent Care
Unit but could also be through transfers from other facilities.

#### Kildonan Medical Centre prides itself in the provision of comprehensive
evidenced-based health care for patients across all age groups- from newborns
to the elderly, and including the vulnerable, through the outpatient clinic.
We provide in-patient care for our adult KMC patients on admission at SOGH in
addition to 2 blocks of unassigned patients (10).

#### KMC currently has 9 academic family physicians. We have experienced
registered primary care nurses who have advanced training in wound care,
women’s health, diabetes education, spirometry, smoking cessation,
contraception and asthma education to name a few. Other allied health
professionals at KMC include a nurse practitioner, clinical pharmacist,
physiotherapists, mental health workers / counsellors, dietician, unit
assistants, administrative and support staff. We also have an on-site shared
care psychiatrist and psychologist. All staff members staff at KMC are
dedicated to providing excellent patient care and educational experiences for
our residents.

#### KMC partners with the Community Birth program; a team of a family
physician, midwife and primary care nurse, in the delivery of obstetrical /
perinatal care to the pregnant women population in the community and newborn
care to the babies. We have also been able to partner with other community
clinics for additional focused clinical experiences in common office
procedures, addictions medicine, transgender health, gynecology and teen
health.

#### Our established working relationship with SOGH provides KMC good access
to many of the hospital resources including the Urgent care services and
additional rooms / auditorium for educational events. KMC is also part of the
My Health Team Network in Inkster-Seven Oaks that enables us to access
additional services and resources for patient care; these includes Chronic
Disease Clinicians, a mental health team and a variety of inter-professional
health care professionals.

####  

### **2) Access River East**

#### Access River East (ARE) is a community clinic located in North Kildonan.
Inpatient care is provided at Concordia Hospital, a community hospital with a
large family medicine presence.  The primary care program at ARE includes home
based care and case management for medically and socially complex patients.
Opportunities are provided for training in long term care, teen clinic,
Indigenous health and intrapartum obstetrics.  As an urban distributed
residency education site, we provide low learner to preceptor ratios. The
collaborative team at ARE consists of:

#### \- 11 family physicians  
\- 3 nurse practitioners and 4 nurses  
\- 1 dietitian  
\- 3 midwives  
\- Shared care counselor and psychiatrist  
\- MyHealth Team clinicians  (respiratory therapy, social work, nursing,
occupational therapy, addictions)

####  

### **3) Access Fort Garry**

#### ACCESS Centres are “one-stop locations” for individuals and families
living in the community area to help provide more coordinated, accessible
health and social services especially for those with many needs. Access Fort
Garry (AFG) serves the Fort Garry area in Winnipeg. The primary care program
at AFG includes clinic and home-based care and case management of medically
and socially complex patients. AFG offers the unique opportunity to gain
experience in addictions medicine and psychiatry, at AFM (Addictions
Foundation of Manitoba), and through our outreach clinic at the Behavioral
Health Foundation. Residents are also able to work with physicians that do
low-risk obstetrics and are free to explore joining those physicians on call.
As an urban distributed residency site, we provide low learner to preceptor
ratios. The collaborative team at AFG consists of:

#### \- 8 Family Physicians

#### \- 3 Physician Assistants

#### \- 6 Nurses and 5 Nurse Practitioners

#### \- 1 Dietitian

#### \- 2 Counsellors and Psychiatrists

#### \- MyHealth Team clinicians

####  

### **4) Access Winnipeg West**

##### Access Winnipeg West is a WRHA Primary Care site attached to the Grace
Hospital that serves the communities of St. James/Assiniboia, Charleswood and
Headingly. We serve a diverse demographic across the age spectrum. Our
priority is to serve patients who have complex needs – social, physical as
well as mental health. To optimize access, our site operates a 7-day per week
Walk-In Connected Care clinic that provides evening and weekend care.

##### Our collaborative care team includes 9 Family Physicians, 7 Nurse
Practitioners, 6 Nurses, a Registered Dietician, a Clinical Pharmacist, an
Occupational Therapist, two Social Workers, a Shared Care Counsellor, a Shared
Care Psychiatrist, and a Clinical Psychologist. We are also part of the My
Health Team Network in West Winnipeg.

##### We have the benefit of being co-located with Employment and Income
Assistance, Family Services, Public Health, Community Mental Health Services
and Home Care.

##### As part of Family Medicine training at ACCESS Winnipeg West, residents
will spend time at the Clinical Assessment Unit at Grace Hospital, Long Term
Care at Deer Lodge Centre, and home visits for our homebound patients.
Residents will be involved in scholarly activities such as journal club and
quality improvement initiatives ongoing at our primary care team. Residents
will have opportunities to perform minor procedures and take part in clinical
teaching with medical students and interprofessional learning opportunities
with other health professional learners.  

##### Along with our community partners, we are looking forward to working
with residents to provide diverse clinical and educational experiences.

#####  

##### Family Physician Faculty:

##### Dr. Ohunene Audu, Dr. Ewoma Avanoma, Dr. Monica Braun,

##### Dr. Nicolle Bristow, Dr. Mark Clark, Dr. Serena Nelko,  

##### Dr. Kirsten Hildahl, Dr. Manjit Sidhu, Dr. Alex Singer, Dr. Carina
Stoykewych

####  

####
\--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### Whichever site becomes your home teaching unit, you will have learning
experiences in both tertiary and community hospitals.

#### Winnipeg’s Children's Hospital is a tertiary centre and part of the
Health Sciences Centre complex.  All hospital-based pediatric rotations will
be based at the Children’s Hospital.

#### At all sites, our faculty members are committed to working with you in
providing the best learning environment possible. We know that Family Medicine
is an exciting, diverse and challenging profession \- just like the program we
offer at the University of Manitoba.

* * *

# Additional Information

**TRANSPORTATION**

As you will need to move frequently about the city and province between
training sites, you will need to secure a means of transportation.  You may
find it easiest to maintain a personal vehicle.

**Additional Points to Consider:**

  * Cost of living is one of the most affordable in Canada.
  * Full access to University of Manitoba library and its electronic resources, including UpToDate.
  * Competitive resident salaries with a solid resident contract including a well-supported maternity/paternity leave policy.  [http://www.parim.org](http://www.parim.org/)
  * Membership and registration fees are covered for University of Manitoba, College of Family Physicians and Surgeons of Manitoba, Canadian Medical Protective Association, and the initial membership in the College of Family Physicians of Canada for PGY1 year.
  * Annual two day resident retreat held in a community outside of Winnipeg.
  * All mandatory course fees are reimbursed upon successful completion.  Examples of mandatory courses include:  NRP, ALARM, ATLS, PALS, BLS and ACLS recertification. Mandatory courses vary between programs.
  * Travel costs and accommodation are provided for mandatory offsite rotations.

**ABOUT WINNIPEG**

Winnipeg is a vibrant city in the heart of Canada with a population over
840,000. It is the largest city in the province of Manitoba and is near the
longitudinal centre of Canada, located 110 kilometers north of the Canada /
USA border. Winnipeg is well known for being one of the most culturally
diverse cities anywhere, with over 100 languages spoken.The city is named
after nearby Lake Winnipeg, the 10th largest freshwater lake in the world.
The name Winnipeg comes from the Western Cree words for muddy water. Winnipeg
is family friendly with plenty of charm, many green spaces, parks and
activities for children. The city boasts dazzling arts, theatre & indie music
scenes, one of the most extensive & diverse food scenes in Canada, multiple
professional sports teams and is home to many festivals.

Winnipeg experiences four distinct seasons. Nothing beats a prairie summer
under our big sky! Manitoba summers are typically very sunny and hot. Our
legendary winters provide opportunities for various winter sports. We have
over 2,300 hours of sunshine per year – among the highest of all Canadian
cities. Enjoying all four seasons is easy to do as Winnipeg is close to
numerous lakes, parks and beaches which provide great areas to camp, fish and
hike. Winter activities include cross country skiing, skating, snowmobiling,
snowshoeing, ice hockey, ringette and tobogganing.

There are several professional and amateur sports teams including the Winnipeg
Jets (NHL), Winnipeg Blue Bombers (CFL), Winnipeg Goldeyes (baseball), Valour
FC (Canadian Premier League Soccer) and Manitoba Moose hockey (AHL). The most
recent addition to the sports scene is basketball team, the Winnipeg Sea Bears
(Canadian Elite Basketball League).

Winnipeg is home to many festivals including Folklorama, the largest and
longest running multicultural festival in the world. Other popular festivals
include Festival du Voyageur, the Winnipeg Folk Festival, the Jazz Winnipeg
Festival, the Winnipeg Fringe Theatre Festival, the Winnipeg International
Children’s Festival among many more. The Forks is a national historic site at
the intersection of the Red and Assiniboine Rivers, with warehouses converted
to shops and restaurants, plus ample green space dedicated to recreational,
historical and cultural events such as festivals, concerts and exhibits. The
Canadian Museum for Human Rights is appropriately situated at the Forks.
Nearby, the Exchange District is known for its well preserved, early 20th
century architecture and numerous art galleries, trendy shops, cafes and
restaurants. Some of Winnipeg’s other diverse neighbourhoods include the boho
chic Osborne Village and the historic St. Boniface, the heart of Manitoba’s
Francophone community.

Known as the “Gateway to the West”, Winnipeg is a railway and transportation
hub with a diversified economy. It is a very affordable place to live in
Canada. Resident salaries are higher than in most provinces and items such as
food, gas, rent and car insurance are typically less.

Websites of interest:

<http://www.tourismwinnipeg.com/>

<https://www.tourismwinnipeg.com/events/annual-festivals-and-events>

<http://www.travelmanitoba.com/>

<http://jets.nhl.com/>

<https://www.bluebombers.com/>

<https://goldeyes.com/>

<http://valourfc.canpl.ca/>

<http://moosehockey.com/>

<https://www.seabears.ca/>

<https://www.theforks.com/>

<https://www.exchangedistrict.org/>

<http://tourismeriel.com/en/destinations/st-boniface-1>

<https://humanrights.ca/>

<https://www.economicdevelopmentwinnipeg.com/>

<http://www.gov.mb.ca/>

<http://www.wrha.mb.ca/>  

<https://sharedhealthmb.ca/>

<https://umanitoba.ca/ongomiizwin/>













* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26717?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26717