#  University of Ottawa - Pediatrics - Ottawa

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 3 click here

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Stuart Harman  

Address Paediatrics  
Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario  
401 Smyth Road  
Ottawa , Ontario, K1H 8L1  

613-737-7600 ext 2440

(613)-738-4864

Websites of Interest [ CHEO Pediatric Medical Education
](https://www.uottawa.ca/faculty-medicine/pediatrics)  
[ Canada's Portal for Residency Program Promotion - uOttawa Pediatrics
](https://canprepp.ca/programs/university-of-ottawa-pediatrics-ottawa/)  
[ Why Choose uOttawa for Medical Residency? Video Promotion
](https://youtu.be/YvKOt6Bt-sM)  
[ Instagram Page run by uOttawa Pediatrics Residents
](https://www.instagram.com/ottawapeds/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Mahitab Shahien

Title: Medical Education Assistant Coordinator

Email: mshahien@cheo.on.ca

Phone: 613-737-7600 ext 2285

  

Name: Dr. Brianna Empringham

Title: Interim Assistant Program Director

Email: bempringham@cheo.on.ca

  

Name: Dr. Vanessa Bohn

Title: Assistant Program Director

Email: vbohn@cheo.on.ca

Phone: 613-737-7600 ext 3955

  

* * *

# Important Information

**All candidates must meet the Ontario Criteria of Eligibility**  found
[here](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-criteria/provincial-
criteria/ontario/).

COVID-19 vaccination

Please be aware that most, if not all, hospitals in Ontario have mandatory
COVID-19 vaccination policies in place that require, in the absence of a valid
medical or human rights exemption, proof of vaccination. Acceptable
vaccination must be in accordance with Health Canada. You will be required to
provide an attestation that you meet this requirement as part of the CaRMS
application process and any actual documentation will be collected by the
appropriate institution if matched. These guidelines could change at any time
in accordance with future direction from the Ministry of Health or the
Universities based on information from Public Health.

It is important to understand this is an evolving issue. You are required to
review Provincial, Hospital, University and Program information to ensure you
are in continued compliance with directives.

The University of Ottawa encourages applications from IMGs. Serious
consideration will be given to candidates who fulfill the following selection
criteria:

. Demonstrated academic achievement

. Recent graduate from Medical School or an advanced training program

. Demonstrated proficiency in English

. Demonstrated interest in and knowledge of the Canadian Health Care System

All international medical graduates will be required to sign a return of
service contract with the Ministry of Health and Long Term Care of the
Province of Ontario, in the specialty (including Family Medicine) to which
they have been matched.

**MCCQE (Medical Council of Canada qualifying examination) Part 1 results** :

Trainees will be required to disclose their MCCQE Part 1 examination results
upon entry into any of the University of Ottawa's training programs.  The
purpose of this disclosure is to identify residents for whom extra support
early in residency may help maximize their success.

**Licensing/Registration:** Must have documents verified through
physiciansapply.ca

**Failure to meet or provide proof of any of the stated requirements may
result in an applicant’s file not being reviewed or removed from the Rank
Order List.**

* * *

# Return of Service

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

**ASSESSMENT**

Success in the National Assessment Collaboration (NAC) Objectives Structured
Clinical Examination (OSCE): successful result is mandatory.  





* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  * Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  * Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  * Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  * Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Language assessment document accepted:  **TOEFL-iBT

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum score of 93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section. The TOEFL iBT Home Edition will be accepted as a substitute for the TOEFL iBT

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:**  must have minimum score of 7.0 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Occupational English Test (OET)
-Medicine

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP)

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum score of 9.0 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Letter of language proficiency

  * Letter of language proficiency is a letter from your Dean attesting that your medical school program of instruction was completed solely in English or French
  * Alternatively, candidates can submit a printout from the [World Directory of Medical Schools](http://www.wdoms.org/) which clearly states that the language of instruction is English or French.

Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site. Please
review specific program descriptions for more information.

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

**Results must be provided by File Review Date.**

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

**Results must be provided by File Review Date.**

  * **Note:  MCCQE part II passing score can be used to apply instead of the NAC passing score.**

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

References should be from attending staff. Letters dated prior to 2023 will
not be considered.

See Selection Criteria.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  600

  

Content should include:

  * why you are choosing pediatrics
  * reflection on your clinical experience to date
  * long term goals
  * reason for considering the University of Ottawa Pediatric Program
  * what you will contribute to the program environment

This letter is an opportunity to highlight anything that may not be reflected
in your CV. It can also be used as a place to explain anything atypical in
your application. If a particular aspect of your submission doesn't seem to
shine, the personal letter is a great place to share why that metric doesn't
truly capture how well-suited to our program you really are.

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

**Only required if MD degree completed.**

**Must be a graduate from an acceptable medical school listed on the  World
Directory of Medical Schools website at <http://www.wdoms.org/>.**

Order from your Registrar. Must be English original or certified translation.







* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

File review opens on November 29th, 2024.

The goal of the review process is to identify candidates who will both thrive
in our program and help our program thrive.

The ideal resident cohort is a team, with diverse but complimentary strengths
and skills. Common traits among our successful team members are motivation to
reach full potential, commitment to patients, and concern for the team as a
whole. If this describes you, then we hope to see you during interviews.

All files are reviewed independently by at least 2 reviewers, using a
standardized template to rank files for consideration of an interview. Our aim
is to have as fair and consistent a selection process as possible, and we
follow recommendations from the "Best Practices in Applications & Selection"
final report endorsed by CaRMS.

Once all of the files have been reviewed, applicants will be contacted
regarding an interview and interview details will be provided. Applicants
granted an interview will also be notified.

The interview date will be January 27th, 2025

We wish we could interview every excellent candidate, but alas, interview
spots are limited. We ask that if anyone realizes they need to cancel their
interview, notify us ASAP so that another colleague on the list can have an
opportunity.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 27, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be scheduled throughout the
day, in 2-hour blocks, preceded by an orientation.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process:

All interviews will be conducted as an online video interaction. Telephone
interviews will not be offered - video functionality is required.

Our interviews use the multiple mini interview (MMI) format. Candidates will
have several 10 minute, individual interviews administered by a multi-
disciplinary group of faculty and residents. Each interview will focus on a
different aspect of the candidate (eg. background, future plans, problem-
solving ability). One interview will be with our Program Directors.

We will also offer a virtual social event with our staff and residents, and a
virtual tour of our site.

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Successful IMG applicants will enter the same training program as CMG
trainees, although these additional requirements apply:

> 1\. Candidates must meet the published provincial restrictions (available at
> <https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
> criteria/ontario/>)
>
> 2\. Candidates will need to have:
>
>   * Written and passed, or be scheduled to write the [Medical Council of
> Canada Qualifying Exam Part I](https://mcc.ca/examinations/mccqe-part-i/) by
> September 2022.
>

>
> 3\. Success in the NAC OSCE is mandatory.

Preference will be given to IMG applicants:

• who have graduated from medical school within the past 3 years OR graduated
from medical school before 2019 AND have been in active medical practice
within the past 2 years.  
• with documented successful additional experience in paediatrics, beyond the
regular medical school program, within the last 2 years. Examples include
undergraduate electives, postgraduate training in pediatrics, and focused work
experience in child health.  
• who can demonstrate familiarity with the Canadian or North American health
care system. Examples include formal medical training or practice in a
Canadian or American jurisdiction (Canadian experience preferred). Research
experience in Canada and clinical observerships are an asset but considered
less valuable than training or work experience.

As per required CaRMS documentation:

  * Reference letters must be dated within the last 2 years. Undated reference letters will not be accepted, nor letters dated prior to 2020.
  * Extraneous documents are not needed and may lower your file assessment score.
  * Please ensure the following information is clearly stated in your application or your personal letter: 
    1. The year of your most recent clinical practice or medical training.
    2. Specify any clinical training completed in North America, Canada, UK, etc. (specify country)
    3. Clearly describe any postgraduate training in Paediatrics.
    4. Clearly describe any postgraduate training in Family Medicine.

**Pre-Residency Program**

All International Medical Graduates accepted to all residency programs will be
required to complete the Pre-Residency Program (PRP) prior to entering a
residency program. Matched IMGs will be expected to attend the PRP virtually
and in-person through [Touchstone
Institute](https://touchstoneinstitute.ca/learning/preresidencyprogram/).

## Program goals

The purpose of our program is to train residents into high calibre
pediatricians. Certification from the University of Ottawa Pediatrics Program
signals that one is prepared to work in any capacity expected of a fully
trained pediatrician, and has the skill-set required to excel in further
subspecialty training.

Residents graduating from our program will be well prepared to meet their
career goals in the setting of their choosing, be it rural or urban,
community-based or in an academic center. We provide learning opportunities in
all these settings. In addition to a strong foundation in core pediatric
clinical skills and patient-centered care, our residents have exposure to all
the CanMeds roles including scholarly work, research, and health advocacy. Our
resident team is a close-knit group who are highly motivated and support each
other both at work and outside of work. They are integral to the functioning
of our program, and we highly value their leadership and input into all
aspects of their training. We provide our residents with a safe and supportive
learning environment where they are challenged to achieve their full
potential.

## Selection process goals

As opposed to an ideal resident, we seek an ideal group of residents whose
qualities and talents will compliment each other. It will be advantageous to
the candidate and the team if individuals are honest with themselves and with
us about what they bring to the table.

In the selection process, we are looking for evidence that a candidate has
shown continuous drive to better themself. We also want to see that candidates
appreciate multiple points of view, care about others, and can contribute to a
team. We are most interested in how residents have displayed these qualities
during medical school, as opposed to the period before medical school.

The University of Ottawa Pediatrics program aims to train excellent
pediatricians who are committed to optimizing the health and well-being of all
children, youth and families in the communities they serve. Selection criteria
are based both on current attributes and future potential, recognizing that
past behavior and achievements are the best predictors of future performance.

  * Candidates must have demonstrated a serious interest and aptitude in pediatrics, as evidenced through the file review and interview process. 

  * Candidates should demonstrate excellent communication skills. Although bilingualism is not necessary, a working knowledge of French is an asset.

  * Candidates should demonstrate a mature and caring approach to individuals from diverse ethnic, religious, and socioeconomic backgrounds. 

  * Candidates should have an inquiring mind. Experience or interest in research is an asset.

  * Candidates should exhibit a strong ability to work within a team structure, especially in a multidisciplinary environment. 

  * Candidates should show capacity for health advocacy, whether it be at the individual, institutional or systems-level.

  * Candidates should be compassionate individuals with demonstrated skills in self-reflection to benefit from their residency education and develop skills in lifelong learning.

  * Candidates should have a strong work ethic and the aptitude to develop appropriate time management and coping strategies to manage the multiple demands of the profession. 

## File review process

Review team composition : Our CaRMS Selection Committee is composed of a
diverse group of engaged general pediatricians and subspecialists from both
CHEO faculty and our associated community care providers. Residents do not
participate in file review but are an important part of the interview team.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 201 - 400  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Extra-curricular activities, involvement in the medical school/university community, involvement in the broader community, research experience/publications, prior education, employment experience. It is expected that candidates will have had different opportunities and different areas in which they excelled.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  A broad range of elective experience, with a demonstrable interest in paediatrics, is valued.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  The MCCQE1 and NAC OSCE are the only exams we evaluate.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Involvement in academic, community or volunteer programs, including length and degree of commitment. Employment activities will also be considered. The more clear the connection is between an extra-curricular activity and the job/training requirements of a resident, the better. Extra-curricular activity during or after medical school is considered with more weight than that prior to medical school.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Participation in academic leadership role/community programs, including length and degree of commitment   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Review for “red flags” or academic awards   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  We recognize that personal letters are challenging to write. These are an opportunity for candidates to explain any atypical aspects of their application, to express their rationale for wanting to train in our program/city, and to help us understand why we want them specifically for our program.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Extent of relationship/supervision; work ethic, teamwork skills, screening for unprofessionalism. Reference letters must be from attending physician staff.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research experience, including degree of involvement in research projects; number of publications/presentations.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Review for “red flags”, gaps in training or practice   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

 For electives in Pediatrics, the program may contact any elective supervisor
listed on your CaRMS application. Diversity of clinical experience is
appreciated, and evidence of interest in pediatrics is valued.  

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work within a team structure and collaborate with colleagues   
Collegiality |  Team-based mentality, insight into how one's actions affect colleagues   
Communication skills |  Approach to workplace conflict, difficult conversations   
Health advocacy |  Reflection on how physicians can support others to find their voice in healthcare systems   
Interest in the discipline |  Reflection on interest and aptitude for career in pediatrics   
Interest in the program |  Reasons for considering the University of Ottawa Pediatrics Program   
Leadership skills |  Characteristics of a good leader (eg. calmness under pressure, teamwork, motivating others) assessed throughout stations   
Professionalism |  Approach to bioethically sensitive topics; degree of insight and self-reflection   
Scholarly activities |  Opportunity given to discuss past research experience/scholarly activity   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  We do not actively seek out ancillary information on applicants, as
doing so has high potential for inconsistency and bias. The Selection
Committee does reserve the right, however, to discuss whether additional
information that comes to their attention can be ethically considered in the
selection process. A candidate with an outstanding warrant for their arrest,
for example, might have this counted against them even if the information is
not uncovered during the file review or interview process.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Quick Facts  
---  
  | 

> • As a training program in an academic pediatric hospital, we achieve the
> optimal balance between supervised clinical practice and emerging
> independence resulting in considerable direct contact and one-on-one
> teaching with staff. This is enhanced by the involvement of engaged
> Community Pediatrics faculty.

>  
> • We are the only pediatric hospital in the region serving a large catchment
> area, which provides the opportunity for exposure to common pediatric
> conditions as well as those unique to tertiary care pediatrics, covering
> subspecialty representation from all disciplines.

>  
> • Residents are exposed to Community Pediatrics throughout their training
> and are provided with opportunities to complete a rotation in remote and
> rural settings.

>  
> • Residents have an opportunity to pursue interprovincial and international
> electives (a supervisor and objectives must be identified and approved by
> the Program Director).

>  
> • We provide a rich on-call experience which allows for both night float
> systems and 24-hour call experiences. This is valued by our residents for
> its variety of clinical contact and continuous opportunities for on-call
> experiences in several areas of the hospital throughout the 4 years of
> residency.

>  
> • We have a strong research component in the department and an affiliation
> with the CHEO Research Institute. Residents who wish to further develop
> their research portfolio are well supported and mentored by several CHEO-
> based researchers with nationally and internationally recognized research
> programs. We encourage scholarly questions in a variety of areas including
> basic science, clinical practice, medical education, quality improvement and
> advocacy.  
  
* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The program meets the pediatric training requirements for certification by the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada and the American Board of
Pediatrics, and the licensing requirements of the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Ontario. The Competence By Design (CBD) curriculum launched in
2021. The 4 stages of CBD are mapped over 4 years, after which residents can
choose to apply to a subspecialty or enter practice. The Department of
Pediatrics at uOttawa includes academic general pediatricians, community
consultant pediatricians and academic subspecialists.

Our philosophy is geared towards providing a solid foundation in general
pediatrics and giving each trainee the pediatric experiences required for
their personal career goals. Residents, by the end of their training, should
have the confidence and skills needed to expertly practice general pediatrics
in any sized community, or to enter additional subspecialty training.

  
Our training site offers a multitude of experiences in a variety of hospital
and community-based settings, including: Adolescent Medicine, Anesthesia,
Advocacy/Social Pediatrics, Ambulatory Care, Cardiology, Child Protection,
Consulting Rural Pediatrics, Complex Care, Development, Diabetes Camp,
Emergency Medicine, Endocrinology, Gastroenterology, Genetics,
Hematology/Oncology, Infectious Diseases, Inpatient Medicine (CTU),
Metabolics, Neonatology, Nephrology, Neurology, Newborn Care, Orthopedics,
Palliative Care, Pediatric Intensive care, Mental Health, Radiology, Research,
Respirology, Rheumatology, SPOT/IV team, Surgery, Transport medicine.

**Transition to Discipline and Foundations of Discipline (PGY 1 to Early PGY
2)  **

The first two stages of residency will give the trainee a solid base in
general pediatrics. Residents will participate in an initial onboarding period
during Transition to Discipline. By the end of the Foundations of Discipline
stage, the resident will be skilled in the diagnosis and initial management of
less-complex pediatric conditions and presentations.

**Core of Discipline (PGY 2 to Early PGY 4)  **

Now that the trainee has acquired foundational knowledge of the field of
general pediatrics, the Core of Discipline stage is designed to provide a
deeper exposure to subspecialty areas of pediatrics and to encourage the
resident into taking a leadership role in the care of each patient. At this
stage the resident will progress into more senior and supervisory roles, where
the trainee is entrusted with the management of ward and/or ambulatory
patients, including those with complex problems. The resident also takes on
the responsibility of supervising more junior trainees. In the latter half of
this stage, the resident assumes supervisory roles both in their daytime and
on call activities. This stage encourages the development of skills in
prioritization, clinical judgment and increasing self-confidence. To encourage
the integration of knowledge from different areas of pediatrics, the resident
will work in both outpatient and inpatient settings.

  
**Transition to Practice (PGY 4)  **

The Transition to Practice stage is designed for the refinement of the
knowledge, skills, and attitudes learned in the preceding stage and provides
more flexible time to target training opportunities dependent on the
resident’s chosen career path and goals. Residents identify and work towards
meeting their own learning needs with a variety of experiences including
ambulatory and in-patient blocks, At this stage residents will progress to a
junior attending supervisory role in both inpatient and outpatient settings
and participate in longitudinal outpatient care.



**Rotations by Year (A rotation block is 4 weeks long)**

_PGY 1:  _Orientation/On-boarding, Healthy Newborn Care, Perinatal Medicine -
Junior Role, Clinical Teaching Unit - Junior Role (3 blocks), Emergency
Medicine, Infectious Diseases, Respirology, Community Pediatrics, General
Surgery, Orthopedics (1/2 Block), Vascular Access (1/2 Block)



_PGY 2:_  Clinical Teaching Unit - Senior Role (1 Block), Selective - resident
chooses from a list of experiences (1.5 Blocks), Night Float, PICU - Junior
Role (2 blocks), Perinatal Medicine - Senior Role, NICU, Haematology/Oncology,
Adolescent Medicine, Mental Health, Rural Community Pediatrics (typically in
North Bay, Ontario), Elective



_PGY 3:  _Clinical Teaching Unit - Senior Role (2 Blocks), Selective -
resident chooses from a list of experiences (2 Blocks), Night Float, Daytime
Float Senior, Neurology, Cardiology, Child and Youth Prtoection, NICU or PICU,
Emergency Medicine, Northern Community Pediatrics (Iqaluit or Whitehorse),
Elective



_PGY 4:_  Elective (3 Blocks), Selective - resident chooses from a list of
experiences (2 Blocks), Junior Attending (1.5 Blocks), Ambulatory Clinics -
resident chooses their own mix of subspecialty clinics, Night Float or Daytime
Float Senior (1/2 Block), Complex Care, NICU - level 2 or 3, Developmental
Pediatrics, Community Pediatrics



* Residents have up to 60 days (3 blocks worth) of protected time to work on their Scholarly Activity/Research Projects. This is spread over 4 years.

* Residents in 3rd and 4th year spend an average of 2 days per month in a longitudinal pediatrics clinic 

**Education and Assessments:**

Residents in our program have protected time to attend regular teaching
sessions in addition to an Academic Half Day. The Academic Half Day rotates
through a 3-year core curriculum that includes teaching in general and
subspecialty pediatrics as well as exploring topics related to other CanMeds
roles such as advocacy, leadership and professionalism. This structured
academic curriculum incorporates seminars, lectures, interactive discussions
and journal clubs, and is planned by the PGME Education Subcommittee, which
includes resident representation. Protected time includes weekly Residents'
Academic Half-day as well as Grand Rounds and monthly Patient Safety rounds
which provide excellent learning experiences for the residents. Multiple
simulation experiences in both acute care as well as communication skills are
also included. As in all Canadian Pediatric Residency Programs, formative OSCE
examinations and biannual MCQ/SAQ Canadian In-Training (CITE) practice exams
are held twice yearly (part of the national Pediatric Collaboration of
Canada), and all residents must pass a STACER (Standardized Assessment of a
Clinical Encounter Report) prior to graduation. Residents in the first three
years of training also write the annual American Board of Pediatrics in-
training examination every July.

**Scholarly Activities:**

Scholarly activity is a required component of pediatric residency training.
Each resident must lead or demonstrate significant contribution to a scholarly
project during their training. Their project can be related to any aspect
(research, education, clinical care, advocacy, quality improvement) of
Pediatrics. Our program offers excellent support, guidance and instruction
through expert faculty mentors and the resident Scholarly Activity Guidance
and Evaluative (SAGE) Committee. All residents must present their scholarly
projects at our program’s annual Resident Research Day, and many residents
also disseminate their scholarly work at national and international meetings
or through peer reviewed publications. Residents who wish to further develop
their research and scholarly activity portfolio as a major component of their
future career are well supported and mentored by several CHEO-based child-
health researchers with nationally and internationally recognized research
programs.



* * *

# Training Sites

**The Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario -  401 Smyth Rd, Ottawa, ON K1H
8L1**

The Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO) is a tertiary care
children's hospital that provides the only pediatric inpatient services in the
Ottawa-Carleton region and serves a referral population of over 1,500,000. It
contains a Pediatric Emergency Department, a level 3 NICU, a PICU, multiple
Pediatric In-patient wards, a Pediatric Surgical Unit, and numerous Pediatric
Subspecialty Medical Day Units and services.

The University of Ottawa residency training program in pediatrics, based at
CHEO, has excellent patient volume and diversity in both the inpatient and
outpatient units. The program exposes residents to primary, secondary and
tertiary level models for provision of care to children. There are numerous
subspecialty rotations available, many of which also offer Royal College
accredited subspecialty training.

Our medium-sized hospital provides a work environment that is friendly and
supportive.  The focus is on patient- and family-centred care and the
multidisciplinary team highly values its resident members. The Postgraduate
Medical Education Committee carefully evaluates and incorporates feedback from
the residents through the Annual Resident Retreat and resident representation
on the PGME Committee.



**The Ottawa Hospital General Campus -  501 Smyth Rd, Ottawa, ON K1H 8L6**

Residents in our program spend some time in the NICU of the The Ottawa
Hospital (TOH) General Campus, which is connected by tunnel to CHEO. The
Ottawa Hospital has a birthing unit, and so the level 3 NICU at the General
Campus attends deliveries and offers a different experience than the NICU
within CHEO.



**Hôpital Montfort -  713 Montréal Rd, Ottawa, ON K1K 0T2**

Also known as the Monfort Hospital, this is the only hospital in Ottawa that
administers in French and the only Francophone academic hospital west of the
province of Quebec. Residents with reasonable comfort communicating en
Français will have some community pediatrics experiences at Hôpital Montfort.



**North Bay Regional Health Centre - 50 College Dr, North Bay, ON P1B 5A4**

Residents in second year have a remote community pediatrics rotation in North
Bay,  gaining experience in both office-based practice and in the North Bay
Regional Health Centre. Some residents may alternatively have a similar
experience with our academic partners in Sudbury or Thunder Bay.



**Qikiqtani General Hospital - Niaqunngusiariaq, Iqaluit, NU X0A 0H0**

In their senior years, residents spend a rotation providing pediatric care in
Canada's North. Qikiqtani General Hospital (QGH) in the Nunavut territorial
capital of Iqaluit on Baffin Island is the sole hospital in the territory, and
provides excellent experiences in triage, stabilization and cross-cultural
medicine. The residents highly value and evaluate this rotation, from the
clinical perspective but also for the opportunities it provides to experience
more remote Canadian geography and culture. Residents in 3rd year may
alternatively rotate through the Yukon and the Whitehorse General Hospital,
receiving a similarly rich cross-cultural pediatrics experience.



In addition to the hospitals described above, there are a multitude of niche
pediatric clinic opportunities within and around the city of Ottawa.





* * *

# Additional Information

Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada: Applying competency-based
practices to residency education.  
To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called Competence by Design
(CBD), aims to enhance patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong
learning with evolving patient needs and empowering learners to more fully
engage in their education process.  
CBD will use time as a framework rather than the basis for progression. It is
not anticipated that the duration of training will change for the majority of
trainees. Residency programs will be broken down into stages, and each stage
will have a series of milestones based on required competencies. These
milestones will create more targeted learning outcomes and involve more
frequent, formative assessments within the clinical workplace to ensure
residents are developing and receiving feedback on the skills they need.  
The Royal College anticipates that all specialty and subspecialty programs in
Canada will adopt CBD in gradual phases. All disciplines have been divided
into seven cohort groups, each of which will adopt CBD at different times.
Pediatric programs across Canada will transition to the CBD model in July of
2021.  
All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. Residents in CBD programs
will be assessed against program milestones throughout their training. Within
a CBD program, all milestones (documented within an electronic portfolio) and
the Royal College examination must be successfully completed to achieve
certification.  
For more information, please contact cbd@royalcollege.ca.  
  
Unique Opportunities:  
The rural/remote pediatric rotations in our program offer many unique
experiences.  
Our program also offers several unique longitudinal curricular experiences in
Advocacy Simulation, Wellness, SAGE, Ethics and Patient Safety. We have strong
culture of resident leadership and resident-led improvements throughout our
training program and the hospital.  
  



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27024?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27024