#  University of Manitoba - Orthopedic Surgery - Winnipeg  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on November 13, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Tudor Tufescu  

Address Orthopaedic Surgery  
University of Manitoba  
WR116 735 Notre Dame Ave.  
Winnipeg MB R3E 0L8, Manitoba  

Work  (204) 787-8049

Work

Websites of Interest [ U of M Orthopaedic Surgery Residency Program
](http://umanitoba.ca/faculties/medicine/units/surgery/orthopaedics_residency/index.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Vianney Karalash

Title: Program Administrator

Email: vkaralash@hsc.mb.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

**T** he Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation for all residents, which
is **MANDATORY,** will be held on **Thursday******,** June 26, 2025.  
**

**Competency Based   Education**

Residents entering the University of Manitoba Orthopedic Surgery residency
program will experience competency-based training.

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/competence-design-e), aims to enhance
patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving
patient needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education
process.

CBD uses [time as a
framework](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e)
rather than the basis for progression. It is not anticipated that the duration
of training will change for the majority of trainees. Residency programs are
broken down into [stages](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/documents/cbd/cbd-
competence-continuum-diagram-legal-e.pdf), and each stage has a series of
milestones based on required competencies. These milestones create more
targeted learning outcomes and involve more frequent, formative assessments
within the clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving
feedback on the skills they need.

All CBD programs continue to undergo the same rigorous accreditation processes
as traditional programs. All CBD programs will continue to lead to Royal
College approved certification. Certification for trainees in both CBD and
traditional programs will include the completion of a Royal College
examination; however, residents in CBD programs will also be assessed against
program milestones throughout their training. Within a CBD program, all
milestones (documented within an electronic portfolio) and the Royal College
examination must be successfully completed to achieve certification.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Orthopedic Surgery at the University of Manitoba is committed to a fair,
equitable, and transparent application process. We maintain the right to
choose the applicants we feel are the best candidates for our residency
training program.

However, not all applicants whose files meet our minimum criteria will be
offered interviews; only the top candidates will be offered an interview.

As per the national standards set by all Universities during the pandemic,
there are no visiting elective students.  Doing Orthopedic Surgery electives
at your home institution is encouraged but is not required of an applicant and
those who are unable to do so will still considered for an interview.

You are required to fulfill ALL of the most current Provincial Criteria for
Canadian Medical Graduates for Manitoba

The criteria can be found at:  <https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Reference documents

Required

Orthopedic Surgery structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

This letter should address your reasons for desiring a career in orthopedic
surgery, your perceived strengths and weaknesses and any other information
that you feel to be pertinent.

A personal letter is required. We are looking for mature, enthusiastic
physicians who bring with them a broad range of life experiences, are
committed to providing excellent patient care, and can embrace the depth and
breadth of experiences our program offers.  
In 500 words or less, please address the following areas: What life
experiences demonstrate your adaptability, team skills, leadership potential,
and sense of compassion? Why do you feel the University of Manitoba would be
the right choice for you? In what ways are you connected to Manitoba?

If your transcript indicates poor academic standing, course failure(s),
leave(s) of absence, or breach of professionalism, please attach a
supplementary statement to the beginning of your e-CaRMS Personal Statement
entitled "Transcript Addendum" addressing the respective circumstance(s).

Custom Résumé / CV

Include a current CV in the Custom Resume section. Please tailor your resume
to provide us with a better understanding of your experiences and commitment
to Orthopedic Surgery Program.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:  

  1. Obtain your medical transcript from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer
their transcript from their
[physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

Only abstracts will be reviewed. DO NOT send journal articles as they will not
be reviewed.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All applications are reviewed by the CaRMs selection committee. Multiple
reviewers review the applications and the choice of candidates for interview
is by consensus. Important criteria include the personal letter, references,
electives, rotation evaluations and the Dean's letter/medical student
performance report.



* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 7, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Candidates will be offered virtual
interviews based on the selection criteria. Only interviewed candidates will
be considered for ranking. The official CaRMs interview date is Friday,
February 2, 2024.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Panel interviews will be conducted by
both Faculty and current Orthopedic Surgery Residents.  
  
There will be an opportunity for candidates to ask questions in a Q & A
opportunity.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Orthopedic Surgery at the University of Manitoba is committed to a fair,
equitable, and transparent selection process.

All CMG applicants will have a comprehensive and structured review of their
CaRMS file including the personal letter, MSPR, CV, and letters of reference.
The review will be conducted by faculty, clinic staff, and current residents
from any site, regardless of the sites to which you have applied. Selection
for interview will be determined by the outcome of the file review.

  
Applicants who are invited for interview will participate in one structured
interview, regardless of the number of sites to which you have applied. The
structured interview may have questions specific to the sites to which you
have applied.



## Program goals

The University of Manitoba is committed to the social justice principles of
equity, access & participation and to promoting opportunities for systemically
marginalized groups who have been excluded from full participation at the
University and the larger community including Indigenous, Black, racially
marginalized Peoples, persons with disabilities and those who identify as
2SLGBTQIA+ (Two-Spirit, lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, questioning, intersex,
asexual and other diverse sexual identities) and women.   The primary goal of
the University of Manitoba Orthopedic Residency Program is to guide all
trainees through a comprehensive five-year program, whereupon completion, the
resident is prepared to practice as a consultant general orthopedic surgeon,
as recognized by the FRCSC designation from the Royal College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Canada.   The orthopedic residency program maintains a
desirable teaching environment through a 3:1, or better, teacher to learner
ratio, and exposure to teaching faculty with fellowship training in all
subspecialties of orthopedics. The program supports protected time for
residents to participate in an organized academic half day, a research half
day, and case-based learning sessions every week, and in every orthopedic
subspecialty. Upon acceptance to the program, trainees become a part of our
orthopedic community, the Manitoba community and beyond.  We support local
organizations such as The True North Foundation, and The Winnipeg Jets
Athletic Club.  We collaborate with northern Manitoba communities through the
provision of musculoskeletal consultation through the use of communication
technology.  We volunteer in developing nations to provide care for patients
and training for local care givers.  The program provides opportunity for
individual development of trainees, and the ability to achieve excellence
rather than competence.  Trainees with a research inclination are encouraged
to pursue a scholar stream through a one year MSc. degree, and clinically
inclined residents are encourage to pursue international fellowships.  The
policies and guidelines of the University of Manitoba, the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, and the Professional Association of
Residents and Interns of Manitoba are honored and upheld by the program.  
---  
  
## Selection process goals

Successful candidates for the University of Manitoba Orthopedic Program should
demonstrate a strong interest in Orthopedic surgery and an understanding of
the challenges commonly faced by orthopedic trainees. Successful candidates
for the program should demonstrate a work ethic suitable for the rigors of a
five-year surgical residency through other accomplishments outlined in their
application or interview.  Successful candidates for the program should
demonstrate an understanding of the Orthopedic community, their colleagues, as
well as the  Winnipeg community at large. An inclusive, open, and diverse
community is essential to excellence and fosters voices that have been ignored
or discouraged. To address the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences' commitment to
equity, access, and participation, and in recognition of the
underrepresentation of members of historically and currently excluded groups,
our program has taken the following proactive measures as part of our
selection process.  
---  
  
We strive for diverse perspectives and cultural safety throughout the hiring
process (resident selection committees, short-list of applicants, interviews).
We ask all applicants to include an EDIA statement in their personal letter
with evidence demonstrating their own commitment to EDIA in their work and
training thus far

## File review process

Review team composition : The University of Manitoba CARMs committee for
Orthopedics is composed of six faculty, including the Program Director, and
six residents, including both senior and junior level residents. The CARMs
committee is supported by our Program Administrator throughout the process.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  General understanding of the applicant   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Interest in the discipline   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  CASPer Score is considered as per the University of Manitoba PGME mandate.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Commitment to the community and work ethic   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of leadership skills   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Interpersonal skills   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in the discipline, work ethic and interpersonal skills   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Interpersonal skills, professionalism, work ethic   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in the discipline   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Demonstrates an ability to work in a team.   
Collegiality |  Interpersonal skills.   
Communication skills |  Ability to identify and describe problems   
Health advocacy |  Encompasses direct service to the individual or family   
Interest in the discipline |  Level of exposure to and understanding of the discipline   
Interest in the program |  Understanding of features of the program and of the city of Winnipeg   
Leadership skills |  Notable leadership experience   
Professionalism |  Appropriate communication and behaviour   
Scholarly activities |  Research and education experience   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  The CARMs committee will consider relevant information arising from
an elective or rotation at the institution.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The University of Manitoba Orthopedic Surgery Training Program is a 5-year
program comprised of 24 months of core rotations in affiliated specialties and
36 months of orthopaedic surgery.  There is a ratio of 11 residents to 36
Faculty.  The Program is based out of the [Health Sciences
Centre](http://www.winnipeg.ca/interhom/), [Pan Am
Clinic](http://www.panamclinic.org/about-us/who-we-are), [Concordia
](http://www.orthoinno.com/)Hip and Knee Institute and [Children's
Hospital](http://www.hsc.mb.ca/).  We primarily service the City of Winnipeg,
but also provide services to the Province of Manitoba, Northwestern Ontario
and Nunavut resulting in a catchment population of over 1 million people.

The program includes rotations in adult reconstruction, pediatric
orthopaedics, hand surgery, trauma, spine surgery, sports, upper extremity,
oncology and foot and ankle surgery. There are no mandatory rural rotations.

Four months are devoted to elective opportunities.  There are opportunities
for interprovincial and international electives.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Each academic year commences on July 1 and ends on June 30.  The academic year
is divided into 13 blocks of training, each block starts on a Wednesday and
ends on a Thursday, they are 28 days in length with the exception of block 1
and 13.

Residents are granted 28 days of vacation (including Saturdays and Sundays),
vacation can be taken in 7 day blocks.

Rotations have been established in accordance with the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada Specialty Training Requirements in
Orthopedic Surgery.

Residents are required to complete 26 blocks of Surgical Foundation training
in accordance with the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
Specialty Training Requirements in Surgical Foundations.



**PGY-1 & 2**

The first 2 years of the 5 year Orthopedic Surgery Residency consist of CBD
Surgical Foundations training.  Rotations are selected jointly by the
Orthopedic Surgery Residency Program and the Surgical Foundations Program
Directors.

These rotations, along with the Surgical Foundations Seminar Series, have the
resident prepared to pass the Royal College Surgical Foundations Examination
and serve as the basis for the future years of Orthopedic Surgery training.

**Current Surgical Foundation Rotations:**

**PGY 1**

3 Blocks - Adult Trauma Orthopedic Surgery

3 Blocks - Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery

1 Block - Foot and Ankle Surgery

1 Block - Orthopedic Hand Surgery

1 Block - Orthopedic Sports Surgery

2 Blocks - Trauma (Gold) Surgery

1 Block - Emergency Medicine

1 Block - Orthopedic Spine Surgery

**PGY 2**

2 Blocks - Adult Trauma Orthopedic Surgery

2 Blocks - Sports Orthopedic Surgery

1 Block - Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery

2 Blocks - Adult Reconstruction Orthopedic Surgery

1 Block - Surgical Intensive Care Unit

1 Block - Perioperative Medicine

1 Block - Vascular Surgery

1 Block - Plastic Hand Surgery

1 Block - Orthopedic Oncology

1 Block - Orthopedic Hand Surgery

**PGY-3 to 5**

All 3 years are spent in Orthopedic Surgery.  Residents are exposed to all
forms of orthopedic surgery and are expected to participate in all surgical
procedures with progressively increased levels of responsibility. By the end
of the the final year, residents are expected to be able to perform all
standard major orthopedic procedures in their entirety, under supervision.

**PGY 3**

3 Blocks - Adult Trauma Orthopedic Surgery

3 Blocks - Adult Reconstruction Orthopedic Surgery

3 Blocks - Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery

3 Blocks - Orthopedic Spine Surgery

1 Block - Orthopedic Oncology

**PGY 4**

1 Block - Adult Trauma Orthopedic Surgery

2 Blocks - Adult Reconstruction Orthopedic Surgery

1 Block - Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery

3 Blocks - Orthopedic Sports Surgery

2 Blocks - Foot and Ankle Surgery

3 Blocks - Internal or External Electives

1 Block - Orthopedic Oncology

**PGY 5**

2 Blocks - Adult Trauma Orthopedic Surgery

1 Block - Adult Reconstruction Orthopedic Surgery

2 Blocks - Sports Orthopedic Surgery

2 Blocks - Spine Orthopedic Surgery

2 Blocks - Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery

1 Block - Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery

2 Blocks - Exam Preparation

1 Block - Orthopedic Oncology





**ACADEMIC TIME**

The academic and scholarly content of the Orthopaedic Surgery Residency
Program complements the resident’s clinical exposure.  Through these scholarly
activities, including seminars, rounds, academic day and conferences, the
resident acquires an in-depth understanding of basic mechanisms of normal and
abnormal conditions and acquires the ability to apply current knowledge to
Orthopaedic surgery. Orthopedic Surgery residents in their PGY1 and PGY2 will
also participate in the Surgical Foundations Seminar Series.

**Academic Day Block Teaching  
** Interactive with residents and one attending have a didactic session on
various orthopedic surgery topics in trauma, spine, sports, foot and ankle,
arthroplasty, oncology, pediatrics, and anatomy cadaver dissection. Often
these sessions are followed by an exam based on the block teaching.

**Academic Day Research Teaching  
** Sessions are conducted each week to provide the residents with the
necessary tools to assist with completion of specific resident research
projects.

**Orthopedic  Surgery Grand Rounds  
**These rounds are held each Wednesday of the month except when specific
Department of Surgery Grand Rounds are scheduled. Topics are presented by
Faculty, Fellows, Residents and Visiting Professors.

**Weekly Rounds  
** Are attended by both Residents and Faculty:

  * Pediatric Orthopedic Rounds
  * Sports Medicine Rounds
  * Fracture Rounds
  * Templating Rounds
  * Spine Rounds
  * Hand Rounds

**Morbidity and Mortality Rounds  
** Complicated cases are presented three times per year by Faculty at each of
the teaching sites, Health Sciences Centre (Adult & Children), Concordia
Hospital and Pan Am Clinic.  The focus is in recognizing and learning from
these cases

**Journal Club  
** Are held in the evening 4 to 5 times per year by each of the orthopedic
subspecialities.

**Department of  Surgery Grand Rounds  
**These rounds are held weekly, and the Orthopedic Surgery Department has the
opportunity to attend.  Topics relevant to all surgical specialties are
presented by Faculty, Visiting Professors and Residents.

**College of Medicine Postgraduate Resident Core Curriculum Teaching**

The Postgraduate Medical Education Dean's Office at the University of Manitoba
provides Core Curriculum lectures and workshops for residents of all
specialties, covering the CanMEDS competencies in such areas as: Communication
and consultation skills; Teaching skills; Principles and Practice of Quality
Assurance / Improvement Biomedical Ethics Medico-legal issues; Practice
Management and Administration; Professional Boundaries and Public Speaking.

**RESEARCH**

  
All residents are expected to be involved in ongoing clinical research
projects and to give a formal presentation on their work at the Orthopedic
Surgery Residents Research Day.  

Orthopedic Surgery Research Day is a combined day with the University of
Saskatchewan.

Residents are also expected to submit their research for presentation
consideration at the annual Department of Surgery Resident Research Day.



* * *

# Training Sites

**Resources**

**[Health Sciences Centre](http://www.hsc.mb.ca/)**

A newly constructed Emergency Department streamlines care at the Health
Sciences Centre, while the cast clinic has been remodeled to improve cast and
fracture care. The Orthopaedic offices, located in AD4, include a resource
room with a teaching classroom and conference room for the residents.



New, state-of-the-art operating rooms with video integration have recently
been added to the Arthroplasty Group at Concordia Hospital. Adjacent to the
Hospital is the Concordia Hip and Knee Institute, housing research facilities
as well as offices for the surgeons and their support staff.

**[Pan Am Clinic](http://www.panamclinic.org/about-us/who-we-are)**

Expanded four times within the last six years, the Pan Am Clinic is a state-
of-the-art Sports Medicine Centre. Enhancements include video integrated
operating rooms for arthroscopy and a state-of-the-art conference room. In
addition, the Pan Am Foundation Research and Skills Lab floor houses research
equipment for biometrics motion analysis, strength testing, and material
properties.Its stations for skills training include virtual reality
arthroscopy training.

All training sites are video linked to ensure access to all teaching rounds at
all sites.

**Educational Resources**

  * Library facilities are available at the Medical College, Health Sciences Centre along with the Section of Orthopedic Surgery library
  * Funding is provided to allow attendance at one conference per year
  * Resident's lounge with computers

* * *

# Additional Information

Winnipeg is a city offering great arts and culture, neighbourhoods,
recreational activities for all seasons and spectator sports.

Winnipeg is located in the centre of Canada and offers great accesibility by
air and car.  A less than 5 hour direct flight can take you to the beaches of
Mexico!

Winnipeg offers competitive taxes, affordable housing, and low utility rates.

For more information on the City of Winnipeg, Province of Manitoba and Ontario
Lake of the Woods please visit the websites provided below:

**[Toursim Winnipeg](http://www.winnipeg.ca/interhom/)**  

**[Travel Manitoba](https://www.travelmanitoba.com)**

**[Moving to Winnipeg](http://www.winnipeg.ca/interhom/guide/)**

**[Living in Winnipeg](http://www.economicdevelopmentwinnipeg.com/why-
winnipeg/living-here)**

**[Moving to Manitoba](http://residents.gov.mb.ca/moving.html)**

**[The Forks - Winnipeg's Meeting Place](http://www.theforks.com)**

**[Winnipeg Jets NHL Team](https://www.nhl.com/jets)**

**[Winnipeg Blue Bombers CFL Team](https://www.bluebombers.com)**

**[Winnipeg Goldeyes American Association of Independent Professional Baseball
Team](http://goldeyes.com)**

**[Canada's Royal Winnipeg Ballet](https://www.rwb.org)**

**[Royal Manitoba Theatre Centre](http://www.royalmtc.ca)**

**[Winnipeg Symphony Orchestra](https://wso.ca)**

**[Winnipeg Fringe Festival](http://www.winnipegfringe.com)**

**[Winnipeg Jazz Festival](http://jazzwinnipeg.com)**

**[Festival du Voyageur](https://festivalvoyageur.mb.ca)**

**[Beaches of the Southeast Coast of Lake
Winnipeg](http://www.eastshorerealty.ca/listings/beaches-area.html)**

**[Ontario Lake of the
Woods](https://www.northernontario.travel/fishing/10-facts-about-lake-of-the-
woods)**  



Orthopedic Surgery at the University of Manitoba is committed to a fair and
transparent application process. We maintain the right to choose the
applicants we feel are the best people for our residency training program.

However, not all applicants whose files meet our minimum criteria will be
offered interviews; only the top candidates will be offered an interview.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26657?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26657