#  University of Alberta - Ophthalmology - Edmonton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Marcela Strungaru  

Address Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences  
Royal Alexandra Hospital  
Rm. 2301, 10240 Kingsway Avenue  
Edmonton AB, Alberta, T5H 3V9  

Work  780-735-5954

Fax  780- 735-4969

Websites of Interest [ University of Alberta ](http://www.ualberta.ca )  
[ Ophthalmology ](https://www.ualberta.ca/ophthalmology/index.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Hermina Strungaru

Title: Program Director

Email: strungar@ualberta.ca

Phone: 780-570-3920

  

Name: Devra Samay

Title: Program Administrator

Email: mededovs@ualberta.ca

Phone: 780-735-5954

  

* * *

# Important Information

**CASPER Requirement**

All applicants to our residency program at the University of Alberta are
required to complete the CASPER (Computer-Based Assessment for Sampling
Personal Characteristics) test, to assist with our selection process.
Successful completion of CASPER is mandatory in order to maintain admission
eligibility. CASPER is an open-response, situational judgment test that
evaluates aspects of applicants’ social intelligence and professionalism such
as ethics, empathy, problem-solving and collaboration. For more information on
the test, go to
[https://takealtus.com/casper/.](https://takealtus.com/casper/) CASPER scores
are only valid for a single admissions cycle and for the test type for which
you have taken the test. For example, if an applicant took the Canadian Post
Graduate Medical Education test for the CaRMS Round 1 match, the same CASPER
score will be considered for the Round 2 match.

Your CASPER assessment result is sent directly to our program/CaRMS from
Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights permission to
share your results with CaRMS.

* * *

# Return of Service

There are no return of service requirements at the University of Alberta.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Please see the Alberta [provincial
criteria.](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/)

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) are required to provide proof of
English language proficiency as determined by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) who completed their medical education in
Quebec or at the University of Ottawa (French Stream) are required to provide
proof of English language proficiency as determined by the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

CMGs who completed their medical education at the University of Ottawa must
indicate on their application which stream they completed (either French or
English).

_For more information on the CPSA English language requirements, please visit
the  [CPSA website](https://cpsa.ca/physicians/registration/english-language-
proficiency/)._

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Candidates should submit a personal letter that gives the Selection Committee
a sense of their personality and includes their reasons for choosing
ophthalmology as a career, why they feel ophthalmology would suit them and
whether they have any particular subspecialty interests. The letter should
also provide information about the candidate’s interests outside of medicine.

Custom Résumé / CV

Ophthalmological Report

An ophthalmologist report stating the candidate's visual status, including
stereopsis and color vision, is required. (Please note that the
ophthalmologist's signature on your report is considered certification)

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS)

Candidates who successfully match to our program will need to complete ACLS
certification prior to their July 1, 2025 start date if they have not already
done so.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Optional - will be reviewed

Graduate Transcript (Master/PhD Degree)

If applicable.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Our Search & Selection Committee will review all candidate applications and
documentation. Based on our selection criteria, and after each application has
been evaluated by each of the 5 members of the committee,  a shortlist of
candidates will be selected for interviews. All applicants will be notified by
email by TBA, whether they are selected to interview.

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: Please note all interviews will be
conducted exclusively ONLINE due to decisions from AFMC.  
  
The interviews will be held on February 7th, 2025.  
  
A virtual social event will be held on February 6th, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Each candidate will connect with
three interview teams throughout the day.  
  
Team One: Program Director and one of the staff.  Possibly the Chair of the
Department  
  
Team Two: Ophthalmology Faculty (2 or 3)  
  
Team Three: Residents (2).  
  
As the interviews will be exclusively ONLINE, prior to the interview day, the
applicants will receive information about the connection and times to meet
with each one of the interview teams.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria





**Overall Goals of the Residency Program  **

The Department of Ophthalmology, University of Alberta is a multi-disciplinary
team of healthcare professional committed to furthering excellence in the care
of patients with visual disorders through:

  * The provision of a comprehensive range of services for the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of visual disorders; 
  * The provision of postgraduate, undergraduate and fellowship training in ophthalmology and continuing medical education opportunities; 
  * Basic, applied clinical and outcomes-related research into vision problems; The development of effective partnerships with groups and agencies interested in addressing vision care needs; The education of residents in areas which will provide better communications with patients and families, collaborating with other professionals, contributing to a high quality care system and advocating with communities or patient populations to improve health. 



We are committed to providing the highest quality patient care within a spirit
of compassionate and scholarly inquiry.

The Residency Program aims to produce first-rate comprehensive
ophthalmologists/ surgeons who have met and exceeded the criteria in the
Ocular Trauma Score (OTS) for ophthalmology, and who have high ethical and
professional standards.

## Program goals

A multi-disciplinary team of healthcare professionals committed to furthering
excellence in the care of patients with visual disorders through:

  * provision of a comprehensive range of services for the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of visual disorders;

  * provision of undergraduate, postgraduate and graduate training in ophthalmology, and continuing medical education opportunities;

  * translational vision science, and 

  * development of effective partnerships with organizations in Canada and abroad

## Selection process goals

During the selection process, it is expected for the candidate to demonstrate
a solid academic performance record, with excellent academic achievements both
personally and through the University. To have excellent communication and
interpersonal skills and commitment to teamwork at all levels. Exhibit
extraordinary decision-making ability, maturity, motivation, focus, empathy,
and sensitivity to patients' needs. Show achievement in extracurricular
activities with leadership experience. Be motivated to assume or have proven
experience in research. The department also will require applicants to take
the CASPer test. The information for Casper will be added to the CaRMS
website.



Additional training:

Additional training experiences above and beyond the traditional medical
school curriculum will be considered to uphold and respect the principles of
fairness, equity, and professionalism in the application, selection, and
matching process. Training experiences that fall outside of postgraduate
medical education will be evaluated using existing institutional rubrics
specific to each program and weighted in a manner that encourages equity among
all applicants.



## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is composed of 5 staff members of
the Residency Program Committee and two residents. The staff members represent
different specialties. The residents are composed of a senior and junior,
selected by their peers.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
The average number of applications is between 50 to 60.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  
The maximum number of available candidate interviews for this match cycle is
15.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Academic performance and Achievements   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We will consider electives during file review   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  If applicable   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Overall interest, dedication and commitment for work   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  How to lead successful medical teams and become the primary decision makers.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Overall performance   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Personal impression about the residency program and the specialty. It is essential as it describes who the applicant is and the reasons why the specialty is important.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Opinion from referees about professionalism, academic interest and integrity. It also provides excellent information about attitude and interpersonal skills, including but not limited to team work, supervision of juniors and medical students, interaction with peers.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Quality of work and dedication for research   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Overall academic performance during medical school   
Other file component(s) |  We require applicants to take the CASPER test as part of the requirements for application.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  The residency program has an strong interest about team work and Collaboration among residents.   
Collegiality |  To support other residents and foster excellent relations with Staff   
Communication skills |  How the candidate communicates his/her ideas to the panel   
Health advocacy |  We are interested in the overall health and wellbeing of patients, and as such, we as physicians are obliged to provide the best advice.   
Interest in the discipline |  The real interest and reason to become an ophthalmologist.   
Interest in the program |  Why is this program the best option for the candidate?   
Leadership skills |  We expect the residents to lead successfully medical teams   
Professionalism |  Highest level of ethics and professionalism are expected at all times   
Scholarly activities |  Academic production in terms of research or teaching material   
Other interview component(s) |  All interviews will be carried exclusively online.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  The program may directly contact the referees and the school to
obtain further information about performance during past rotations, electives
or to confirm information.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  Disrespect for other applicants, residents or staff. Racial or
abusive comments of any kind towards members of the staff, residents or other
candidates during the interview process.  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

We have:

  * A large catchment area of diverse patient populations resulting in large variety of pathology and high surgical volumes
  * Enthusiastic and supportive teaching staff with representation is all subspecialty areas
  * Responsive Program Director, Department Chair, Program Administrator and Residency Program Committee committed to continually improving the program
  * A fully equipped Ophthalmic Surgical Skills Centre with virtual surgery simulator, surgical instruments and the latest phacoemulsification machines for teaching and practice of surgical techniques throughout all years of residency. 
  * A well-established Mentorship Program to assist in maximizing the educational experience of each resident and provide staff the opportunity to share life lessons while developing a professional relationship in a collaborative learning environment
  * Promotion of resident wellness via Resident Wellness Day, staff/resident events and the mentorship program
  * An exceptionally cohesive and supportive resident group
  * Local, national and international electives opportunities. Residents have undertaken electives in the USA, England, El Salvador, Fiji Islands, Australia, Ethiopia, Kenya, Cameroon, Guatemala, Ivory Coast and others.

The Department fosters a culture that promotes an outstanding teaching and
learning environment. Sessions for staff and residents in promotion of this
environment have included giving and receiving feedback, professionalism and
cross generational communication and appreciation.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Our five year program provides extensive training in comprehensive
ophthalmology and allows achievement of a high level of surgical expertise.
The curriculum has dedicated elective time and in depth exposure to
subspecialties. We have an enthusiastic and committed teaching faculty who
recognize and support each resident’s individual aptitude and interest to
every extent possible. Graded responsibilities for all areas of patient care
and surgery and a diversity of learning opportunities lead to excellent
preparedness and eligibility for the Royal College specialty examinations.



**PGY-1**  

Rotations in PGY1 are designed to give broad based clinical exposure and allow
a comprehensive experience in relevant hospital specialties . These rotations
include: internal medicine, pediatrics, plastic surgery, neurology,
rheumatology, emergency medicine, neuro-radiology and elective/research
opportunities. PGY1 residents attend the mandatory six week Toronto
Ophthalmology Residency Introductory Course (TORIC) in May/June.

Experience in general ophthalmology clinics is obtained through 8 weeks
scheduled in general ophthalmology clinics. In order to aid the resident's
transition to the PGY2 year, each PGY1 resident is scheduled for two weeks to
shadow and attend all clinics with the PGY2 resident on call (just prior to
TORIC). During this time, the PGY1 resident will learn how to triage
effectively and will also learn details and paperwork required in arranging
for patients to be seen in clinic.



**PGY2**

This year is spent primarily involved in the ambulatory care of eye patients
at the Regional Eye Centre (Royal Alexandra Hospital). Rotations include Day
Call, General Clinics, Glaucoma, Retina, a four week preceptor-specific
general rotation and four weeks of elective as well as a one week rotation in
ophthalmic diagnostics.

**PGY-3 & 4**  

The PGY 3 & 4 years include rotations in pediatric ophthalmology and adult
strabismus, oculoplastics, glaucoma, retina, neuro-ophthalmology and
cornea/external disease. At the beginning of their PGY3 year, residents may
attend a basic science didactic course. Exposure to laser applications in
ophthalmology and ocular surgery is also obtained. Residents may schedule 8
weeks of clinical or research elective time which can include international
electives.

After extensive preparation and training through the Ophthalmic Surgical
Services Centre, cataract surgery in the Operating Room begins midway through
PGY4. Overlapping into PGY5, this is the core cataract surgery year with
residents expected to be in the operating room 3 to 4 days per week.

**PGY5  **

The PGY-5 year sees the conclusion of the core cataract surgery year in late
November. Residents continue one day per week in the OR with one cataract
surgeon until the beginning of their dedicated study time. Rotations after
core cataract surgery include senior rotations in glaucoma and retina,
elective time and a community/flex rotation dedicated to providing experience
in consultation clinics and other pre-consultant level activities. PGY5
residents also have an opportunity to attend an ophthalmology review course.
During the dedicated study time (8 weeks), residents have no clinical,
consultation or call duties.

**Ophthalmic Surgical Skills Centre (OSSC)**

A multidimensional dedicated wet lab facility at the Royal Alexandra Hospital
provides a cutting edge integrated approach to eye surgical education.
Residents, fellows and medical students now benefit from a new structured,
competency-based surgical curriculum within our state-of-the art facility with
multimedia integration and a synergy of learning through e-Library, surgical
simulator, group and independent wet labs that complement their learning in
the operating room. Trainees have 24 hour access to this secure facility and
learn in a manner that suits them best. They can leverage the benefits of
multimedia, such as recording surgical cases and creating virtual patient
cases for teaching and demonstration. Formal and informal teaching will occur
throughout the academic year with our dedicated staff surgeons who will
introduce a topic, share videos, demonstrate a technique, and then work with
each resident over time so they can also perform the technique first in the
OSSC, then in actual patients.

**Research**

The program requires that residents actively participate in or lead research
projects in years PGY2 onwards. The department has many clinical researchers
and visual scientists with an interest in working with residents. Residents
are assisted in planning research projects by our Resident Research Director
and the Research Coordinator.

Research projects (PGY-2 to 4) are presented at the annual Ophthalmology &
Visual Sciences Research Day. Residents are encouraged and supported when they
present papers and posters at national and international meetings.





**Seminars/Educational Symposia**

Yearly educational symposia include Optics Day, Glaucoma Day, Retina Retreat
(weekend) and Resident Wellness Day.  

Journal club is held four times each academic year with residents, faculty and
community ophthalmologists participating. Residents are responsible to review
and present a journal article yearly.

All PGY2 to 5 residents participate in mock examinations (written and oral)
twice a year as well as the yearly OKAP exam. (Ophthalmic Knowledge Assessment
Program)

Grand Rounds are held each Friday (September through May) from 7:30 - 8:30 am.
Residents are required to present with the assigned staff member.

Friday afternoons are protected time for academic seminars and didactic
teaching. Residents are required, on a rotating basis and in conjunction with
staff, to prepare a one hour seminar.  

Subspecialty morning rounds in retina FA, retina manual review, glaucoma,
cornea, cataracts and strabismus are held from September through May.

* * *

# Training Sites

Training Sites:

  * Regional Eye Centre, Royal Alexandra Hospital
  * Stollery Children's Hospital at the University of Alberta Hospital
  * Community eye clinics associated to the program (Alberta EyeMD, Alberta Retina Consultants, Glaucoma Consultants)

Additional Resources

  * Fully equipped and supplied Ophthalmic Surgical Skills Centre (wet lab) including a cataract surgical simulator.
  * Each resident receives a complete set of the American Academy of Ophthalmology (AAO) manuals.
  * Our library contains journals and multiple ophthalmology reference textbooks and CDs.
  * Residents have individual email accounts and 24 hour email access.
  * Residents have access to Medline and other medical search engines.
  * Residents have software and equipment available for electronic presentations.
  * T-RES software is provided to all residents for procedure and clinical encounter documentation.

* * *

# Additional Information

Please take a few minutes to access our web site for further information.

<https://www.ualberta.ca/ophthalmology/education-programs/residency-program>

The site also includes a link to the University of Alberta's website which
provides community information about the University, the City of Edmonton and
the Province of Alberta along with other topics. Once at the University of
Alberta website click on Prospective Students, then Campus Life Links.

**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)**

The University of Alberta recognizes the importance of diversity, equity,
inclusivity, decolonization, and indigenization (EDIDI) and is committed to
the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry’s policy on anti-racism.

Further, the University is committed to implementing the Truth and
Reconciliation Commission calls to action that are relevant to education and
medicine. The pursuit of diversity and equitable opportunities is a core value
that guides our selection practices.

The University encourages applications from underrepresented groups, including
Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women,
persons of a minority gender identity or sexual orientation, and individuals
who would contribute to the diversity of the medical community. The CaRMS
Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) is an optional form that candidates
can fill out.

Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism in residency
selection, but is currently not using the CSIQ as part of our application
process. We are using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable
opportunities for all applicants.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27078?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27078