#  University of Toronto - Neurology - Pediatric - Toronto

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Carolina Gorodetsky  

Address Division of Neurology  
The Hospital for Sick Children  
555 University Avenue  
Toronto, M5G 1X8  

(416) 813-6332

(416) 813-7096

Websites of Interest [ Neurology Education, Department of Paediatrics
](https://paeds.utoronto.ca/neurology)  
[ SickKids Division of Neurology ](https://www.sickkids.ca/en/care-
services/clinical-departments/neurology/)  
[ Postgraduate Medical Education at the University of Toronto
](http://www.pgme.utoronto.ca/)  
[ UofT Paeds Neurons on Instagram
](https://www.instagram.com/p/CKpQIZ1h58d/?utm_source=ig_web_copy_link)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Annalisa Khan

Title: Education Program Coordinator

Email: annalisa.khan@sickkids.ca

Phone: 416-813-6332

  

Name: Dr. Shelly Weiss

Title: Program Director

Email: shelly.weiss@sickkids.ca

Phone: 416-813-6332

  

Name: Dr. Carolina Gorodetsky

Title: Associate Program Director

Email: carolina.gorodetsky@sickkids.ca

Phone: 416-813-6332

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion**  
All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of the
University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

  
**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)  
** The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.  
  
_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

* * *

# Return of Service

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

The SickKids Division of Neurology is committed to training the child
neurologists of tomorrow in a community that is representative of our
diversity of experience, so as to achieve our vision of ‘Healthier Children. A
Better World.’  We invite applicants to train with us who have a passion for
child neurology, and who wish to contribute to the growth and development of
our specialty and our training program.  Our priority is to train competent
and compassionate neurologists who are prepared to serve a diverse patient
population in terms of cultural origin, race, language, gender identity,
sexual orientation, religion, and socioeconomic status.  We also aim to train
future scientists and educational leaders who will continue to advance the
field of child neurology.  Our program is committed to resident wellness and
to ensuring a positive learning environment for all through a culture of
mutual respect and support.

In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Language assessment document accepted:  **TOEFL-iBT

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:**  7 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Occupational English Test (OET)
-Medicine

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum score of 9 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Letter of language proficiency*

*Alternatively, candidates can submit a printout from the [World Directory of Medical Schools](http://www.wdoms.org/) which clearly states that the language of instruction is English or French.

The **IELTS Indicator**  will be accepted as a substitute for the Academic
Version of the IELTS.

The **TOEFL iBT Home Edition**  will be accepted as a substitute for the TOEFL
iBT.

Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site. Please
review specific program descriptions for more information.

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

  * **Date/milestone assessment submission required:**  File review opening
  * **Requirement:  **Mandatory

For more information on the MCCQE Part 1 click on the following link
<https://www.mcc.ca/examinations/mccqe-part-i/>

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

  * **Date/milestone assessment submission required:  **File review opening
  * **Requirement:  **Mandatory with exceptions*

* MCCQE part II can be used to apply instead of the NAC

For more information on the NAC OSCE click on the following link [National Assessment Collaboration | Medical Council of Canada](http://mcc.ca/examinations/nac-overview/)

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required from academic physicians familiar with
the candidate's qualities. If possible one or more letters from a faculty
member in Pediatric Neurology is helpful but not required. A reference from a
senior resident will not be accepted.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

A personal letter is required with comments to include motivation and
rationale for choice of paediatric neurology and future career goals. Maximum
length of 1000 words is requested.  
  
_Important Note: Please address any gaps in training or remediation periods in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count._

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Please note, if the requested documentation is not received by the deadline,
the applicant will not be considered for an interview.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 27, 2025
  * January 28, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: The program interviews selected candidates.
The interview dates for both CMG and IMG applicants are January 27 & 28, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will be conducted
virtually using a structured multiple personal interview format. There will be
4 brief interviews with both faculty members and trainees in the program.
Candidates will also have an opportunity to tour the facilties virtually and
meet informally with residents in the program to chat and ask questions.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

The Paediatric Neurology residency training program at The Hospital for Sick
Children, University of Toronto is a fully accredited program with the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. The program is committed to
excellence in training a diversity of individuals for careers in both academic
and community-based practice.  We accept trainees via the CaRMS R-1 match into
our 5-year residency program and via the CaRMS paediatric subspecialty match
into our 3-year program.

## Selection process goals

Candidates with the following qualities will be given priority:

- strong academic record with demonstration of proficiency in subjects related to the study of neurology or paediatric neurology

\- demonstrated commitment to and aptitude for paediatric neurology either
through elective experience, research or other activities

\- evidence of strong clinical skills, communication skills and interpersonal
skills

\- a genuine interest in scholarship, evidenced by contributions to quallity
improvement, research or medical education

## File review process

Review team composition : Each applicant's file is reviewed independently by a
faculty member and current trainee.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  service/volunteer work, leadership potential   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted candidates’ opportunities to arrange and complete electives and would like to reassure you that a lack of elective activity this year will not negatively impact your application to our program.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  we do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  service/volunteer work, teaching experience, leadership potential   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  service/volunteer work, leadership potential   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  academic potential, leadership potential   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  commitment to child neurology, communication skills   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  commitment to child neurology, academic potential, communication skills   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  scholarly activities, academic potential   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  academic potential   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  insight into team dynamics and one's role within the health care team   
Collegiality |  insight into how to manage and resolve conflict   
Communication skills |  clarity of thought, ability to convey facts and opinions clearly   
Health advocacy |  evidence of advocacy on behalf of patients, families or society   
Interest in the discipline |  demonstrated commitment and insight into a career in child neurology   
Interest in the program |  clarity of rationale for interest in the program   
Leadership skills |  demonstrated ability to lead and insight into personal leadership style   
Professionalism |  evidence of strong work ethic, insight into own strengths and weaknesses   
Scholarly activities |  quality of scholarly contributions and ability to articulate them   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The major foci of the clinical activities of the Division of Neurology at The
Hospital for Sick Children are epilepsy, stroke, headache, neurometabolic
disorders, neuromuscular disorders, sleep disorders, movement disorders,
neuroinflammatory disorders, and neonatal neurology.

The Division has a Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
accredited training program in Paediatric Neurology as well as fellowship
training programs in epilepsy, stroke, neuromuscular disorders,
neuroinflammatory disorders, neonatal neurology, and neurocritical care.  

The Division, in conjunction with the Program in Neuroscience and Mental
Health and the Centre for Brain and Mental Health, supports active clinical
and basic science research programs in epilepsy, neurophysiology, stroke,
dyslexia, autism, attention deficit disorder/hyperactivity, neuromuscular
disorders, neuroinflammatory disorders, neurometabolic disorders, movement
disorders and neonatal neurology.

The Division currently comprises 15 full-time physicians, 7 part-time
physicians, and 12 scientific staff.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Paediatric Neurology program has implemented a Competency by Design based
curriculum that employs frequent work-based assessments, coaching and feedback
to encourage development of each of the CanMEDS competencies throughout the
following training experiences.

PGY-1  
  

This year consists of one block of paediatric neurology at SickKids, one block
of community-based paediatric neurology, one block of paediatric neurosurgery,
one block of research and 9 blocks of training in general paediatrics
(paediatric wards, emergency paediatrics, community paediatrics, care of the
newborn, infectious diseases, immunology/allergy/dermatology).  Residents
attend PeRLS - the paediatrics academic half day, and participate in a monthly
longitudinal continuity clinic in general paediatric neurology.



PGY-2  
  

This year consists of 5 blocks of general and subspecialty paediatrics, 5
blocks of paediatric neurology, and 3 blocks of adult neurology, which take
place at St. Michael's Hospital, University Health Network and Sunnybrook
Health Sciences Centre. Residents participate in a twice-monthly longitudinal
continuity clinic in general paediatric neurology.

  
  

PGY-3 to 5  
  

The PGY 3 through 5 years will complete the requirements for the RCPSC
accredited program in paediatric neurology. This training will consist of
rotations in ambulatory and inpatient paediatric neurology services, as well
as rotations in epilepsy, electroencephalography, critical care, neuromuscular
disorders, developmental paediatrics, neonatal neurology, neuroradiology,
neuropathology, stroke, neuroinflammatory disorders and additional rotations
in inpatient and ambulatory adult neurology. Ample selective experiences are
available in disciplines such as headache, neuro-ophthalmology, neurogenetics,
neurometabolics, and movement disorders. Residents are encouraged to explore
elective experiences outside of Toronto, including in global health. Residents
follow their own patients longitudinally in a weekly continuity clinic in
general paediatric neurology.



Research

Trainees pursue research projects throughout their training, which is
supported by protected time, formal research mentorship and an annual research
skills course.  Trainees present their work at our annual Prichard research
day, at which they have an opportunity to interact closely with a renowned
visiting professor.

Educational Program  
  

All trainees benefit from an extensive curriculum in paediatric neurology with
dedicated teaching rounds on Wednesday and Thursday mornings. A weekly
academic half day in the principles of neurology is organized in conjunction
with the adult neurology training program at the University of Toronto.





* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

The Hospital for Sick Children is a 260 bed teaching hospital. The inpatient
Pediatric Neurology Unit is shared with neurosurgery in a combined
neuroscience unit. There is a large ambulatory and emergency service. A 7-bed
epilepsy monitoring unit is part of the inpatient service. There is a large
neurophysiology laboratory comprising electroencephalography, evoked
potentials and electromyography. Diagnostic capabilities include MRI, MEG,
PET, CT and SPECT.

The faculty are affiliated closely with the Program in Neuroscience and Mental
Health of the Sickkids Research Institute and the Center for Brain and Mental
Health, allowing resident research opportunities in many areas of child
neurology.

Holland Bloorview Kids Rehabilitation Hospital (a long term care facility with
a specialty interest in epilepsy management, physical disabilities,
neurodevelopmental disorders and neuromuscular conditions) is an affliated
institution.

Trainees are supported by extensive electronic medical resources, including
full computer support, full access to the University of Toronto's electronic
journal collection and the Epic health information system.

For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>

* * *

# Additional Information

**Pre-residency Orientation Programs**

All IMG candidates accepted to all residency programs will be required to
complete either the Pre-Residency Program (PRP) or the Pre-Residency Program
for Family Medicine (PRPFM) prior to entering into a residency program.
Matched IMGs will be expected to attend these programs in Toronto, several
weeks in advance of the start of their residency program. In some cases, this
may result in a delay of the start date of the residency. Additional
information on the PRP and PRP FM programs can be found at the following link:
[Touchstone Institute](http://www.touchstoneinstitute.ca/).

**Assessment Verification Period**

All IMG candidates accepted to residency training programs will be required to
undergo an Assessment Verification Period (AVP). This assessment period is
normally 12 weeks in length and is required by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Ontario to obtain an educational license to enter a residency
program. [CPSO – International Medical Graduates
(IMGs)](https://www.cpso.on.ca/Physicians/Registration/International-Medical-
Graduates).

IMGs that have failed an AVP and are reapplying through CaRMS are ineligible
to apply for training in the same specialty in Ontario but may apply to a
different specialty in the first and/or second iteration. IMGs who have
withdrawn from a program prior to completion of an AVP must declare so upon
application.

**Additional Ontario Information:**

  1. **Permanent Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education office in order to comply with current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry.
  2. **Matched applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data file to the matched university’s postgraduate education office. The postgraduate office will share the information as needed, but not limited to the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:**  The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure to meet or provide proof**  of any of the stated requirements may result in applicant file being removed at any point during the match.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26568?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26568