#  Western University - Internal Medicine - Windsor  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 05, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Marko Mrkobrada  

Address  

Websites of Interest

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Nikesh Adunuri

Title: Assistant Program Director - Windsor

Email: nadunuri@uwo.ca

  

Name: Stephanie Baker

Title: Program Coordinator/Education Assistant (Windsor)

Email: sbaker@uwindsor.ca

  

Name: Bianca Vasapolli

Title: Clinical Education Team Leader

Email: biancav@uwindsor.ca

  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Organizationally, both sites are part of one program and CaRMS interviews for
both sites will be conducted together. However, there is a separate
application for each site with applicants having the opportunity to apply to
both London and Windsor streams. All applicants invited for interviews will
have one common interview with faculty from Windsor involved in the interview
process. Applicants will have the opportunity to rank both program streams
separately during Rank Order List.

Information regarding the on-line interview scheduling system:

January 2025 (Date TBC) \- Login Information

Candidates will receive information by email in January 2025  regarding
credentialing information for access to the on-line interview scheduling
system

January 2025 (Date TBC) \- Interview Notification

Candidates will be notified to log into the interview system. Once logged in,
candidates can view the list of universities where an interview has been
offered and schedule interviews.

January 2025 (Date TBC) \- Interview Selection

Candidates can book interview

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided (by submitting one
of the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.
Failure to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.
No other forms of verification are acceptable.  

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of card must be provided and legible.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

3 letters of reference are required from physicians who you have worked with
clinically.  Letters from residents are not accepted.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

Obtain your medical transcript from your school and upload it directly to your
CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or
requesting your transcript; Ask your medical school to upload your medical
transcript through their CaRMS Undergraduate Portal account

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign. If your MSPR is in a language other
than the program language of English or French, you are required to have the
document translated.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  600

  

A personal letter (of no more than 600 words) is required. Please include the
following information: career goals; general interests and accomplishments;
reasons for selecting Internal Medicine; basis for selecting Western
University; research experience (if applicable).

Optional - will be reviewed

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All application files are reviewed and ranked, according to our selection
criteria, by the Postgraduate Selection Committee. Candidates will be
contacted by email regarding interviews in January 2025.  Due to the large
number of applications, we will not be able to offer interviews to all the
candidates.

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held using a virtual
platform on the following dates: January 2025.  
  
Further details will be available closer to the dates of the interviews.  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will be 30 minutes in
length and are conducted by a team comprised of a faculty member and a
resident in our program. Interviews will be conducted in a virtual format.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We are seeking enthusiastic, self-directed, and collegial learners with a
passion for Internal Medicine. As a candidate, your application will be graded
according to academic achievement, commitment to the field of Internal
medicine, involvement in research, and evidence of dedication to their
community and to others.

## Program goals

The Internal Medicine Residency Training Program's overall goal is to train
residents to become competent specialists in Internal Medicine, capable of
assuming a consultant's role in the specialty. An internist is a specialist
trained in the diagnosis and treatment of a broad range of diseases involving
all organ systems and is especially skilled in the management of patients who
have undifferentiated or multi-system disease processes. An internist cares
for hospitalized and ambulatory patients and may play a major role in teaching
and research of medical students and residents.

Our program provides a supportive and collaborative environment that includes
mentorship and curriculum opportunities to ensure that each resident will have
access to the educational experiences to successfully complete the program
objectives and succeed in the certification exam of the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

## Selection process goals

The Program seeks motivated, collaborative and enthusiastic candidates who are
passionate about Internal Medicine. We welcome candidates with a growth mind-
set who seek feedback and are committed to continuous development.

**File Review:  **All files are reviewed and scored according to our selection
criteria.  This allows us to differentiate between candidates on the basis of
academic performance, scholarly pursuits, leadership, letters of reference,
etc., to determine eligibility for an interview.

**Interview:  **The interview is done independently from the file scoring
process.  Candidates invited for an interview will meet online with a team of
a faculty member and a resident from our Program.  Interviewers do not have
access to the candidate's file. The interview process is intended to focus
exclusively on assessing the attributes that cannot be easily obtained by a
review of the candidate's file, such as ability to communicate effectively,
problem-solving, stress management, professionalism, conflict resolution, and
attitudes regarding growth and feedback.

The interview is 30 minutes in duration and it follows a standard set of
questions and it includes a short case scenario.  The interview questions and
the case have been developed by a committee that includes residents who were
asked what personal attributes they felt a good resident in Internal Medicine
should have.  

**Interview Day:  **The Program offers a comprehensive presentation regarding
all aspects of the program.  This recorded presentation will be available on
the Program's website.



## File review process

Review team composition : All received application files are reviewed and
scored, according to our selection criteria, by our Program Director,
Assistant Program Director and a trained team of reviewers.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 401 - 600  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We do not evaluate this file componet   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  This is used to determine a candidate's interests outside of academic studies   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  This is used to determine a candidate's management skills and commitment to their communities   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  This provides information on the candidate's academic performance   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  This provides information on the candidate as a person and why they are interested in Internal Medicine and our Program   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  This provides information on the candidate's communication and professional attributes   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  This provides evidence of interest in scholarly activities and the ability to manage multiple tasks   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  This provides information on the candidate's academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We do not require applicants to have done electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Candidate's ability to function well within a team structure   
Collegiality |  Candidate's ability to demonstrate friendly, respectful, and positive interactions   
Communication skills |  Candidate's ability to communication in a clear, professional manner   
Health advocacy |  Candidate's ability to communicate their role in health outcomes and prevention   
Interest in the discipline |  Candidate's ability to articulate their interest in Internal Medicine   
Interest in the program |  Candidate's ability to articulate their interest in the Program and community   
Leadership skills |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Professionalism |  Candidate's professional attributes both in a clinical setting and other   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The highlights of the Windsor program are as below:

  * Windsor has been a core internal medicine (CTU) rotation for the London Stream for the past decade and has been consistently one of the highlights of the program in terms of teaching and clinical education. Windsor Internal Medicine Stream has been successfully launched in July 2024 with its first class of residents. 
  * The Windsor program has a long tradition of strong clinical teaching and has maintained a highly regarded Clinical Teaching Unit.
  * PGY-1 Resident boot camp during week 1 of residency to ensure smooth transition to training.
  * Longitudinal Simulation sessions over the 3 years with focus on POCUS, clinical scenarios, and Royal college exam teaching.
  * Resident-centric focus on clinical education with the goal of graduating highly competent Internal Medicine specialists.
  * The program has an established Internal Medicine Journal Club where residents and medical student (with interest in IM) will review many journal articles with a faculty lead to develop critical appraisal skills which are also mapped to the academic curriculum.
  * The ratio of residents to faculty is very favorable. Residents can expect to have 1:1 supervision on most rotations with supervisors who are dedicated to medical education. The size of the Windsor program allows for more direct supervision yet provides residents with exposure to the full breadth of Internal Medicine practice with access to all the rotations, educational sessions, and resources in London while in Windsor.
  * The size of the Windsor Stream allows for individual attention and regular one-on-one contact between residents and faculty - and yet, it is large enough to oﬀer exposure to a wide variety of subspecialties. The number of residents also facilitates cohesiveness. The training program oﬀers a broad and exceptional range of learning opportunities including outstanding preparation for the Royal College exams and subspecialty opportunities.
  * In addition to day-to-day learning experiences all residents have protected time for didactic teaching (morning report at 8 am, noon round teaching Monday – Thursday, Monthly grand rounds, 6 simulation sessions per year, weekly Academic Half Day, Monthly Journal Club sessions). All these sessions are mapped to academic curriculum. The Program also provides a membership to the NEJM Knowledge+ Adaptive Online Learning Platform to all residents.
  * Signiﬁcant ﬂexibility is oﬀered in the selection of their rotations and are tailored to meet residents’ career goals.
  * Residents are assigned an Academic mentor that provides coaching and support throughout the CBD stages of training.
  * Residents can take advantage of the many research opportunities available at Western University. Residents participate in research either ongoing and/or as a dedicated research elective block. The Department holds an annual Resident Research Day where Residents can present their work and be recognized by Faculty and peers.
  * Residents in our Program receive an annual allowance to attend a conference of their choosing. This allowance may also be directed to cover membership or tuition fees in other educational courses or events.
  * The program provides a wide experience in Internal Medicine and all Subspecialties. Rotations in each sub-specialty are organized to provide exposure in both outpatient and in-patient environments. In addition, training can be undertaken with rotations in Community Medicine - Stratford, St. Thomas, Woodstock, Chatham, Goderich, Sarnia. Through core training, every resident is exposed to a wide spectrum of practice milieus, which is very important in career development.
  * New residents coming to Windsor typically have no diﬃculty locating aﬀordable accommodation in the city of Windsor. Windsor is more affordable than most large Canadian cities and its location close to the border adds to its appeal. Additional information about Windsor can be found at www.visitwindsoressex.com

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 3 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Program Curriculum



Rotation (1 block = 4 weeks) |  Location  |  PGY1 |  PGY2 |  PGY3  
---|---|---|---|---  
Clinical Teaching Unit |  WRO |  5 |  3 |  3  
Intensive Care Unit |  WRO |  1 |  2 |     
Coronary Care Unit (CCU) |  WRO |  1 |  2 |     
Respirology |  WRO / WRM |  1 |   |  1  
Gastroenterology |  WRO |    | 1 | 1  
Nephrology |  WRO / WRM |  1 |   |  1  
Endocrinology |  WRO / WRM |   |   |  1  
Infectious Disease |  WRO / WRM |  1 |   |    
Hematology |  WRM | 1 |    |    
Ambulatory GIM |  WRO / WRM | 1 |   |  1  
Acute Care of Elderly (LHSC) |  London | 1 |   |    
CTU LONDON Senior |  London |   | 1 |    
Community GIM |  Any SWOMEN community |   |  1 |    
Electives |  Resident to arrange based on career plans (May to August in PGY 2-3) |   |  2 |  2  
Research |  QI project or other research  |   |   |  1  
Selectives |  Any available subspecialty in Windsor or London (ER, Palliative, Rheumatology, Geriatrics, Clinical Pharmacology, Allergy, Oncology, Community, etc) |    |  1 |  2  
  
Notes: a) Rotation length (1 block = 4 weeks, 13 blocks every year) b)
Location (Windsor Regional Ouellette (WRO), Windsor Regional Metropolitan
(WRM))

**Subspecialty Training**

After completing Internal Medicine training, Western University offers
subspecialty positions in the following programs:

\- Cardiology

\- Clinical Immunology/Allergy

\- Clinical Pharmacology

\- Critical Care

\- Endocrinology and Metabolism

\- Gastroenterology

\- General Internal Medicine

\- Geriatrics

\- Hematology

\- Infectious Disease

\- Medical Oncology

\- Nephrology

\- Respirology

\- Rheumatology

* * *

# Training Sites

All the hospitals in Windsor are associated with Western's Schulich School of
Medicine & Dentistry and excel in education and patient care. Windsor is in
the midst of planning for and producing a Mega Hospital but in the meantime,
we have three campuses.

Main Training Sites

Windsor Regional Hospital - Ouellette Campus

Windsor Regional Hospital - Metropolitan Campus

Hotel Dieu Grace Rehab Campus



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27059?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27059