#  McMaster University - Psychiatry - Waterloo  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Natasha Snelgrove  

Address Department of Psychiatry and Behavioural Neurosciences  
St. Joseph's Healthcare, West 5th Campus  
100 West 5th, Rm B361  
Hamilton, Ontario , Ontario, L8N 3K7  

wcpgpsyc@mcmaster.ca

Websites of Interest [ McMaster Psychiatry Postgraduate Training
](https://psychiatry.mcmaster.ca/education/postgraduate/general-psychiatry-
residency/)  
[ McMaster Postgraduate Medical Education ](https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/)  
[ Psychiatry & Behavourial Neurosciences ](https://psychiatry.mcmaster.ca/)  
[ Faculty of Health Sciences ](https://healthsci.mcmaster.ca/)  
[ AFMC Match Resources ](https://canprepp.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Ashley Clark

Title: WRC Program Administrator

Email: wcpgpsyc@mcmaster.ca

  

Name: Dr. Linda McColl, MD, FRCPC

Title: Regional Education Lead, WRC

Email: lmccoll@homewoodhealth.com

  

Name: Dr. Vanessa Lentz, MD, FRCPC

Title: Program Director

Email: vlentz@stjosham.on.ca

  

Name: Dr. Natasha Snelgrove, MD, FRCPC

Title: Associate Program Director

Email: natasha.snelgrove@medportal.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/).  It is important to review the
requirements carefully.  Details include eligibility, Pre-Residency
orientation programs (PRP) and Assessment Verification Period (AVP).  

**Psychiatry Specifics – McMaster Style!**   Learn about the details of the
McMaster Psychiatry Residency Program.  Ask questions about our Hamilton &
Waterloo Campus. Panel members will include our Program Director, Associate
Program Director, Waterloo Regional Education Lead and Resident
Representatives from both campuses.

  * Wednesday, October 9, 2024 @ 1930 - 2100h EST
  * Wednesday, November 13, 2024 @ 1930 - 2100h EST



**McMaster Psychiatry Residents’ Meet & Greets:**  Hear about the McMaster
Psychiatry Program from current residents themselves!

  * Wednesday, October 16, 2024 @ 1700 - 1830h EST
  * Saturday, November 9, 2024 @ 1000 - 1130h EST
  * Friday, November 15, 2024 @ 1800 - 1930h EST 

**McMaster Psychiatry Resident Ambassador Program:**   We are pleased to offer
potential applicants the opportunity to speak with one of our current
residents.  

 **To Register for any of the sessions above:  [Click here
](https://forms.gle/DgmBMqgdqV3ZbGvv7)**

To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit:
https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/apply/residents-application-b/

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Applicant support form  Number requested: 3

Traditional letters of reference are no longer accepted for this program. Your
referee must complete the required structured reference form. Please include
this link in your reference request:
<https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/2025-Psychiatry-Structured-Reference-Letter-EN.pdf>

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

The personal letter should include: a biographical narrative (maximum 500
words) which outlines your:

  * reasons for choosing the McMaster Waterloo Regional Campus Program to pursue postgraduate training in Psychiatry
  * understanding of the work of Psychiatry
  * motivation for pursuing Psychiatry as a specialty
  * relevant experiences that are pertinent to the application and would contribute to success in residency and a career in Psychiatry, such as experiences in team-working, leading teams and those that highlight the applicant's work ethic.



The McMaster General Psychiatry Residency Program recognizes that CaRMS
applicants come from diverse backgrounds, including those that have been
historically marginalized. If this identity/identities has/have impacted your
journey in medicine and your desire to become a psychiatrist, you may identify
this section of your letter with a heading and have an additional 300 words
with this supplemental prompt:

  * Describe what your personal identity/identities means/mean to you and how your identity/identities has/have impacted your career goals.  



Custom Résumé / CV

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed in 2024 or prior.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applicants will be contacted by the Education Coordinator to indicate if an
interview is being offered.

It is the responsibility of the applicant to respond within the time frame
indicated in the interview invitation.  **If no response is received within
the time frame indicated, the interview offer will be considered declined.**

We recognize that the CoVID-19 pandemic and ongoing capacity issues have
impacted candidates' opportunities to arrange and complete electives at
McMaster University, and would like to reassure you that the lack of elective
opportunities this year will not negatively impact your application to our
program.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 27, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held on:  
  

  * Monday, January 20, 2025
  * Thursday, January 23, 2025
  * Monday, January 27, 2025

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interview day activities will be
conducted virtually.  
  
The interiew day will begin with interviews, which are expected to span the
morning. Each interviewee will complete 2 panel interviews (20 minutes each)
within this time frame. One interview will consist entirely of standardized
questions, with the other interview being semi-structured, asking the
applicant to reflect on the attributes and skills that make them a strong
candidate for our psychiatry residency program.  Applicants will then be
provided with a general orientation to the program.  Applicants having
additionally been selected for interview for the Waterloo Regional Campus
will, after a mid-day break, return for a brief orientation to the WRC
program, followed by a 10-15 minute interview with a member of the WRC
residency program community.  
  
**NEW THIS YEAR:** The above process will enable applicants having been
offered interviews at each campuse to complete their interviews for both
campuses within a single day.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

McMaster University's Department of Psychiatry and Behavioural Neurosciences
welcomes eligible individuals to submit CaRMS applications for consideration
of a postgraduate residency position. The following selection criteria are
considered in reviewing applicants' files, selecting candidates for interview,
and for ranking purposes:

  * Evidence of interest in psychiatry
  * Evidence of strong work ethic
  * Evidence of successful team working skills, as well as leadership experiences
  * Strong evidence of professionalism and communication skills
  * Evidence with experiences working within the area of psychiatry including ability to articulate & demonstrate knowledge about the practice of psychiatry
  * Academic record 
  * Evidence of commitment to academic inquiry and scholarly work
  * Strength of letters of reference regarding qualities that will translate to a successful psychiatry residency experience
  * Demonstration of an understanding about the unique educational opportunities offered at McMaster University, and specifically the Waterloo Regional Campus, and how this will benefit their training in psychiatry.
  * Experience with research and other scholarly activity is preferred, although not required.

We recognize that the CoVID-19 pandemic has impacted candidates' opportuities
to arrange and complete electives and would like to reassure you that the lack
of visiting elective opportunties this year will not negatively impact your
application to our program.

Candidates who do not provide the required documentation or who submit their
CaRMS application past the CaRMS due date will NOT be considered for an
interview.

All information derived throughout the CaRMS experience is considered relevant
to an applicant's profile, including observations of behavior, including
interaction with Faculty, staff and other applicants, as well as overall
professionalism.

The application and selection process for the McMaster General Psychiatry
Residency Program is designed to be fair and transparent.  A large pool of
applicants is screened by file reviewers with the goal of selecting a cohort
to be invited for an interview. Candidates and the interview panels will be
paired at random, with issues of conflict of interest identified and managed
(e.g., if a faculty member has provided a reference letter for a candidate).
Following the interview component, a committee - comprised of Program
Leadership, and faculty and resident file reviewers and interviewers - reviews
each candidate (based on file review score, interview performance, and other
professional attributes) before compiling a rank order list. Faculty members
with conflicts of interest (e.g., having mentored an applicant, or written a
reference letter for the program) abstain from committee discussions with
regard to the applicant in question.  To ensure accuracy, the Program Director
and Associate Program Director personally review the final rank order list
prior to submission to CaRMS. Concerning unprofessional behaviour, even if all
other components of the application are scored favourably, may be grounds to
not rank a candidate on the final rank order list submitted to CaRMS.

## Program goals

The principal goal of the McMaster Psychiatry Postgraduate Program, Waterloo
Campus, is to promote the achievement of the Royal College CanMEDS
competencies such that graduates will be well-trained to work as psychiatrists
in both hospital and outpatient settings. An important focus is providing care
for marginalized and vulnerable populations in a regional or smaller community
setting.  The program fosters residents' pursuit of clinical excellence, and
their ability to work effectively within a team, in a variety of hospital,
community and rural settings.  Our program supports the progressive
development of the knowledge, skills and attitudes required to function
independently as a competent psychiatrist.  The McMaster Psychiatry
Postgraduate Program, Waterloo Campus, additionally promotes the development
of medical scholarship through a sense of inquiry, intellectual curiosity,
openness to exchange of ideas, the development of new initiatives and a
willingness to acquire, challenge and share knowledge.  These goals will be
fostered by a flexible, responsive program that encourages and supports
personal initiative and self-directed learning.

## Selection process goals

The goals of the selection process are to identify applicants who:

  * Have a clear interest in pursuing a career in Psychiatry, **particularly in the setting of a regional or smaller community/ies**
  * Have an awareness of the field of psychiatry including challenges one may face as a psychiatrist
  * Are effective communicators with people of varying demographics
  * Have demonstrated the ability to work collaboratively with others in team-based environments and activities
  * Are enthusiastic and curious learners with a desire to gain and share knowledge, and to promote advancement of the field of psychiatry
  * Have experience in leading teams
  * Have demonstrated success in initiating change
  * Have demonstrated strong work ethic and effective personal strategies to be actively engaged in residency training
  * Have demonstrated ability to adapt to varying demands as will be experienced in residency training
  * Will develop into exceptional psychiatrists

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team is composed of the WRC Regional
Education Lead, Program Director, Associate Program Director, Program
Administrators, designated faculty members involved in the residency program,
and current members of the WRC resident body.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Content that illustrates applicant characteristics as described above, including work experience.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Exposure to various disciplines for medical training & confirming choice of discipline. We recognize that the CoVID-19 pandemic has impacted candidates' opportunities to arrange and complete electives and would like to reassure you that the lack of visiting elective activity this year will not negatively impact your application to our program.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component for CMG applicants.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering; Team activities; Self-motivation; Self-direction; Time-management; Life experiences   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Experience in leading groups over a duration of time.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Core knowledge & clinical skills; Professional Behaviour; Work habits   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in psychiatry; exposure to psychiatry; interest in our program and in work in regional and smaller community settings; skill in communicating in English   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Clinical and Interpersonal Skills; Professional Behaviour; Interest in field; Rapport with patients; Work Habits. Due to the CoVID-19 pandemic, neither letters of reference from a McMaster Faculty Member nor from a Psychiatrist will be required for consideration for an interview.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research experience; Exposure to research & activities of scholarly inquiry; Interest in research & psychiatry   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance; Professional Behaviour   
Other file component(s) |  Demonstrated maturity.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We recognize that the CoVID-19 pandemic has impacted candidates' opportunities
to arrange and complete electives and would like to reassure you that the lack
of visiting elective opportunities this year at McMaster University will not
negatively impact your application to our program.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work well with others towards common goal   
Collegiality |  Interpersonal skills; respect towards ideas of others; willingness to assist colleagues; Conflict management; Ability to consider experiences of others   
Communication skills |  Important clinical skill necessary for psychiatry & team work; ability to speak & understand English; Ability to clearly & efficiently convey ideas; non-verbal communication skills; respectful use of language; active listening   
Health advocacy |  Recognition of vulnerability of patients; ability to consider ways by which physicians can advocate for patients; awareness of factors influencing equitable practice   
Interest in the discipline |  Genuine desire to do work of psychiatrist including with marginalized & vulnerable populations   
Interest in the program |  Genuine interest in McMaster Waterloo Regional Campus Psychiatry Residency Program   
Leadership skills |  Ability to manage team in respectful and encouraging manner; ability to balance tasks required in leadership position   
Professionalism |  Ability to maintain professional behaviour even under high stress conditions   
Scholarly activities |  Ability to communicate academic interests and explain academic pursuits to date   
Other interview component(s) |  Demonstrated maturity.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The McMaster Psychiatry Postgraduate Program at the Waterloo Regional Campus
is to promote the achievement of the Royal College CanMEDS competencies such
that graduates will be well-trained to work as psychiatrists in community
hospitals and outpatient settings, to provide care for marginalized and
vulnerable populations.

Unique highlights of the program include:

  * Training in a variety of hospital, community and rural settings. 
  * Training that supports the development of the knowledge, skills and experiences required to function independently as a competent psychiatrist in a community based setting
  * Outstanding clinical learning opportunities in a variety of settings
  * Strong academic curriculum including a unique system for academic learning in the One Room Schoolhouse, unique to the McMaster Waterloo Regional Campus, and very well received by the resident body.
  * Focused attention on equity, diversity & inclusion within our curriculum, clinical training environments and within our department, as a part of daily work and clinical practice
  * Robust psychotherapy training 
  * A cohesive resident group
  * Resident wellness curriculum across all years of training
  * Responsiveness to resident ideas and initiatives
  * Individualized training experiences with flexibility by the program
  * Strong support for scholarship in research, education and academic realms
  * Experienced, dedicated and accessible Program Leadership
  * Dedicated, enthusiastic faculty
  * Department also has Child & Adolescent, Geriatric and Forensic Psychiatry Subspecialty training programs
  * The opportunity to apply to and complete the "Clinical Investigator Program" at McMaster
  * Opportunity to concurrently complete Graduate Programs in Health Sciences, including Medical Sciences, Health Research Methodology, Neuroscience and Biochemistry and Biomedical Sciences.
  * Spectrum of opportunities for involvement in education including McMaster Clinician Educator Program
  * Focused attention on equity, diversity & inclusion within our curriculum, clinical training environments and within our department, as a part of daily work and clinical practice
  * Exceptional Global Mental Health opportunities

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The McMaster General Psychiatry Residency Program is a highly flexible,
responsive and creative training opportunity that encourages and supports
scholarly inquiry, personal initiative, principles of adult learning, and
self-directed learning.

**Curriculum:**

Residency Curriculum:

The residency program emphasizes psychiatry as a medical discipline focused on
the treatment of individuals with serious mental illnesses throughout  the
lifespan. The formal academic curriculum includes a systematic overview of
psychiatric illnesses, neuropsychiatry, evidence-based psychotherapies and
psychopharmacology, principles of critical appraisal, global mental health,
Indigenous mental health, mental health of vulnerable populations, alternate
means of delivering treatment and bringing a lens of equity, diversity &
inclusion to all areas of academic & clinical learning. Core academic seminars
are designed to be highly interactive in nature and take place during
protected academic days throughout the PGY1 to PGY5 years.

Clinical training involves completion of core rotations as mandated by the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada and incorporates the
principles and requirements of Competency Based Medical Education.

The first two blocks form the Transition to Discipline Stage of Training,
orienting residents to our program, the university, and the local health care
system while providing a review and assessment of the basic knowledge and
skills required to begin residency training in Psychiatry.  The Transition to
Discipline curriculum also provides creative opportunities for team-building
and networking.

This is followed by 24 blocks of the Foundations of Discipline Stage of
Training during which residents gain clinical experiences in medical
specialties relevant to psychiatry as well as General Inpatient Psychiatry,
General Outpatient Psychiatry, Emergency Psychiatry and Addiction Medicine.

The Core of Psychiatry Stage of Training then consists of third and fourth
year experiences in Child Psychiatry, Geriatric Psychiatry and 9 blocks of
complex care including Consultation-Liaison and Chronic Care/Rehabilitation
Psychiatry.  4 blocks of elective time has been built into the fourth year
which residents may choose to design around the time of preparation for the
Royal College Exam.

An exciting component overlapping the Foundations and Core Stages, is an
8-week block of Selective, designed by the resident, to gain experience in
working with marginalized populations.  This may include but is not limited to
Indigenous Mental Health, Refugee & Immigrant Health, Severe & Persistent
Mental Illness, Addictions, Dual Diagnosis, and Women's Mental Health.  It may
include clinical and/or research work.

The final year of training focuses on the resident’s Transition to Practice,
providing them with another 10 blocks of electives in areas of their choice.
3 blocks of Collaborative Care provide important experience in this vital
route of care delivery.

For all psychiatry rotations, residents choose both the site and supervisor
they prefer to work with, depending on their personal learning styles.  The
education to service ratio is a priority in the design of clinical encounters.
Training involves working in a variety of locations, utilizing a model that
emphases the psychiatrist's role within multidisciplinary teams. A
longitudinal approach is used to ensure development of skills in diagnostic
interviewing and ongoing patient management and care.

Emergency Psychiatry training includes a four-week block during the first year
of training, as well as longitudinal training over the course of residency
through on-call experiences.  

Psychotherapy training is completed in a longitudinal manner. The McMaster
Program is unique in providing comprehensive, systematic clinical training in
evidence-based psychotherapies including Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT),
Interpersonal Therapy (IPT), Group therapy, Psychodynamic Therapy, and
Motivational Interviewing.  Opportunities for clinical training in Dialectical
Behaviour Therapy (DBT), Family Therapy and other evidence based therapies
(e.g. Mindfulness Based Cognitive Therapy, Acceptance and Commitment Therapy)
are also available.  Residents participate in educational seminars to master
specific theoretical constructs as well as online modules.  Direct supervision
by expert faculty includes weekly review of audiotapes or videotapes of each
therapy session.

Elective time may be spent away from McMaster University. Those who are
accepted into the CIP Program may spend all of their elective time completing
coursework and research for their graduate program.



**On-Call Requirements:**

To enhance the community based experience, residents will take call for
emergency psychiatry, learning to manage cases within a community hospital
emergency room.  Cases may be seen until 11 PM.  Residents on call are always
supported by a psychiatrist on call.  Call frequency will be approximately 1/7
as a junior resident (PGY1 & 2) and approximately 1/12-15 as a senior resident
(PGY3-5). The Waterloo Regional call sites are Grand River Hospital (in
Kitchener-Waterloo) and Guelph General Hospital.

Residents also gain experience with inpatient ward call, in tandem with staff
psychiatrists on call.  The location of these experiences will align with the
resident's current clinical rotation.  The frequency of these calls is
approximately 4 times per academic year.

In preparation for independent practice, PGY5 residents (Transition to
Practice Stage of Training) also complete on-call experiences designed to
replicate the experience of staff emergency psychiatrists in the form of
'Junior Attending' call shifts. In the WRC, these shifts will consist of
shifts combining psychiatry emergency and inpatient ward call. These call
shifts provide more autonomy in clinical decision-making, while still adhering
to supervision guidelines and policies.



**CLINICAL TRAINING**

Our PGY1 year begins with the Transition to Discipline Stage of Training,
orienting residents to our program, the university and the local health care
system, incorporating team-building exercises and networking opportunities as
well as providing them with a review of the basic psychiatric knowledge and
skills necessary to begin their residency in Psychiatry.

First year residents then advance to complete core training in Internal
Medicine, Family Medicine, Neurology, Emergency Medicine, Emergency Psychiatry
and Addictions.  An exciting opportunity, unique to McMaster, is a core
rotation working with the medical team providing care to patients admitted to
Psychiatry.  During first year, WRC residents also complete two blocks of
selective (chosen from Geriatric Medicine, General Pediatrics, Developmental
Pediatrics, Palliative Care, Pediatric Neurology, Adolescent Medicine), and
one block of elective training from any medical, surgical or psychiatry
rotation including research.

In order to individually tailor their training, PGY2 to PGY5 residents select
the location and supervisor for each of their rotations.  Assistance is
provided to tailor rotation site and supervisor to residents' interests.
Residents are not assigned to rotations to meet clinical needs.

The second year of training further builds on the groundwork of knowledge &
skills necessary to practice Psychiatry, including building of psychiatric
assessment skills, development of differentials, implementation of management
plans for patients of low to medium complexity and performing of risk
assessments.  Expertise in emergency psychiatry is developed in preparation
for progression to the level of a senior resident by third year. Rotations
during the PGY2 year include:

  * General Adult Inpatient Psychiatry – 6 blocks
  * General Adult Outpatient Psychiatry – 6 blocks
  * Inpatient Substance Use Consultation Service - 2 weeks (currently occurs at the Hamilton Campus)
  * Anchored Selective – 1 block partnered with 1 block at start of PGY3, for total of 2 blocks.  Residents choose from a wide range of opportunities to experience working with marginalized, vulnerable populations and/or further their work in research. 

Third year allows for learning in the more sub-specialized areas of Child &
Adolescent Psychiatry as well as Geriatric Psychiatry, each for 6 blocks.
Third year residents work as seniors within the emergency psychiatry
department, leading the clinical team along with the staff physician, with
lots of opportunity for teaching of junior learners.

The final two years of residency promotes advanced psychiatric skill
development and exploration of individual interests & potential career paths.

Rotations during the fourth year include:

  * Chronic Care Psychiatry - 6 blocks
  * Consultation-Liaison Psychiatry - 3 blocks
  * Elective, which may include research - 4 blocks
  * Longitudinal experience in working with those with severe and persistent mental illness

Developing increasing autonomy & preparation for transition to practice
becomes a focus particularly in the fifth year.  Residents continue to gain
experience within emergency psychiatry longitudinally, and also gain exposure
to the care delivery model of Collaborative Care.  10 blocks of elective time
allow for exploration of potential career areas, further training in areas of
personal learning need and transitioning to practice.

Electives:

  * Up to 6 blocks of elective time may be spent away from McMaster
  * Horizontal, clinical electives may be incorporated into training at one half day per week beginning in PGY3; protected, longitudinal time for research and scholarship at one half day per week may begin in PGY2

Psychotherapy Training:

The McMaster Program is unique in providing comprehensive, systematic clinical
training in evidence-based psychotherapies, including Cognitive-Behavioural
therapy (CBT), Interpersonal Therapy (IPT) as well as Psychodynamic Therapy,
Group Therapy, and Motivational Interviewing.  Opportunities for clinical
training in Dialectical Behaviour Therapy (DBT), Family Therapy and other
evidence based therapies (e.g. Mindfulness Based Cognitive Therapy, Acceptance
and Commitment Therapy) are also available. Training takes place in individual
modules integrated into academic streams, supplemented on-line learning
through the Psychotherapy Training e-Resource (PTeR), if desired.
Psychotherapy supervision includes weekly review of audio or videotapes of
each therapy session.  



**Research  **

McMaster has international expertise in research design and critical
appraisal.  The Department of Psychiatry & Behavioural Neurosciences welcomes
and encourages resident participation in research. Residents may be involved
in research across a spectrum of levels of involvement. Our program has a
faculty member dedicated to promoting and assisting residents with exploring
research opportunities. An annual research marketplace for learners provides
opportunity to learn more about current projects and meet investigators.

Although formal research is not mandated, it is encouraged.  Research
experience can be gained through a spectrum of opportunities spanning from
extracurricular projects to horizontal and block electives.  In addition,
graduate studies at the Masters or PhD level can be undertaken. If these are
done through the Clinician Investigator Program (CIP), to which a resident may
apply as early as the beginning of the PGY2 year, additional close mentoring
and rigorous training in research skills and grant writing is provided.

Block elective time during which research may be pursued is available in each
year of training:

  * PGY1:  up to 1 block
  * PGY2/3:  up to 2 blocks during Anchored Selective
  * PGY4:  up to 4 blocks
  * PGY5:  up to 10 blocks

Residents may apply for protected, longitudinal time, up to one half day per
week, to pursue research and scholarship, beginning in second year.

The minimum requirements for scholarly projects within the residency program
are:

  * One Quality Improvement Project
  * One Grand Rounds presentation
  * One poster presentation at our annual Department Research Day



**Academic Sessions**

Residents have one protected academic day per week.  This begins with
Department Grand Rounds which showcase scholarly presentations by national and
international speakers.   A rotation of weekly Academic Enrichment sessions
occur each Wednesday at 12:30 PM, which include Diagnostic Interviewing, OSCE
prep sessions, Psychopharmacology tutorials, Evidence Based Medicine sessions,
Emergency Psychiatry Discussions as well as Complex Case Rounds.  Academic
Half-Day sessions then occur through the afternoon, comprising the formal
academic curriculum.

The formal academic curriculum includes a systematic overview of psychiatric
illnesses, neuropsychiatry, evidence-based psychotherapies, principles of
critical appraisal and alternate means of delivering treatment.  Most academic
lectures take place during protected academic days during the PGY1 to the PGY5
years (there are no academic seminars during the second half of the PGY4 year,
to protect time for additional exam preparation).  The seminars align with
clinical rotations experienced in each PGY-year.  A reflective lens of equity,
diversity and inclusion is now being brought to all sessions, in addition to
those with this specific focus.

Recent changes to the core curriculum have resulted in a highly dynamic and
pedagogically robust series of learning opportunities. The core seminars are
delivered through small group sessions that start with interesting “triggers”
to promote critical reflection and discussions, short didactic lectures and
small group, case-based learning.

Reflective discussion groups are held throughout each year of training.  These
sessions are designed to promote self-reflection and increased self-awareness
of the lens through which we view and conduct our work, with the overall goal
of increasing equity and advocacy in daily practice as clinicians, scholars,
educators and future administrators.

In addition to those sessions offered on Academic Days, rotation-specific
rounds are held at each teaching centre and offer robust learning
opportunities.

**Clinical Investigator Program (CIP)**

The Clinician Investigator Program (CIP), is a national Royal College
accredited program to train the next generation of physician investigators.
McMaster CIP has a cadre of residents from the Faculty of Health Sciences
including psychiatry. The Clinician Investigator Program enables completion of
graduate studies concurrently with residency training.

The timing of the research activities is individualized and arranged with your
Psychiatry and Behavioural Neurosciences Residency Program Director.  CIP
includes a minimum of two years of research training; during these years, 80%
of the trainee’s time must be committed to research.  Trainees may enrol in a
Masters or PhD program, unless the applicant already has a doctoral graduate
degree then the research time during CIP will be spent as a postdoctoral
training. Further details about the McMaster Clinician Investigator Program
can be found at: https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/discover/enhanced-training/cip-
working-page/.

CIP offers trainees links to graduate training, monthly academic sessions with
experts, excellent mentorship from a CIP supervisory committee and Royal
College certification as a “Clinician Investigator”.  CIP training provides
individualized mentorship and promotes the development of broad and
specialized research knowledge, skills and expertise that are important for
future clinician investigators and helps trainees with their plans for an
academic career.

**Frequently Asked Questions about CIP :**

**Q:  When do residents typically begin CIP training?**

Psychiatry residents typically begin full-time CIP training in the later
stages of residency. Psychiatry residents have 17 blocks of elective time, the
majority of which occurs during PGY4 & 5, the latter in which up to 100% of
time may be spent doing research. If a resident begins CIP in PGY5, they
usually apply for CIP funding to complete a second CIP year as a PGY6.

**Q:  Can I do a graduate degree earlier in my residency as part of CIP?**

Yes, however the graduate training has to fulfill the CIP requirements. For
example, a graduate degree needs to be a research-based (i.e., thesis
requirement), and not exclusively a course-based degree. CIP requires that you
dedicate 80% of time on research during a 24 month period.

**Q:**  **What advantages does CIP offer beyond research skills that can be
acquired through research electives?**

CIP advantages include:

  * Coordination of clinical and research training
  * Academic research sessions and peer contact
  * Completion of course work can be done during residency, which is salaried
  * Assistance and support in obtaining protected time to engage in longitudinal research
  * Royal College certification of CIP training upon completion of program requirements

**Q:   If am a graduate from MD/PhD programs or I have obtained previous
doctoral graduate degree prior to medical school, am I still eligible to apply
to CIP?  If so, do I have to complete another degree?**

Residents in this position are still eligible to apply to CIP. Post-doctoral
positions require advance consideration prior to admission. Further
information can be found at https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/discover/enhanced-
training/cip-working-page/.

* * *

# Training Sites

Training will take place in a variety of locations including primary care
hospitals and community based programs throughout the Waterloo Campus, in an
overall model emphasizing the psychiatrist's role as a consultant and
multidisciplinary team member who shares care with primary care physicians and
other mental health professionals.



**The Department of Psychiatry and Behavioural Neurosciences  **at McMaster
University has more than 400 full and part-time faculty, with broad expertise
in the diagnosis and treatment of psychiatric illness.  McMaster has been a
leader in the development of unique service delivery models for psychiatric
care, with a focus on increased community programs designed to meet the needs
of a variety of patients including those with serious and persistent mental
illness.  McMaster's renowned strengths in child psychiatry, mood and anxiety
disorders, social psychiatry, collaborative care, behavioural sciences,
medical education, epidemiology and research are further enhanced in the
Waterloo Program with the innovative, community based training available in
the Waterloo program.

The hospitals at which rotations may be provided include:



**Grand River Hospital**  \- a key provider of acute health care services in
Waterloo with new and expanded services designed to meet the rapidly growing
community's health care needs.  Grand River Hospital's Mental Health and
Addiction Program is an integral part of the continuum of health care in the
community, collaborating with community service providers as well as patients
and families to provide client-centered care.  Grand River Hospital is home to
a newly rebuilt, 3-division Adult General Inpatient Psychiatry unit.  Within
the hospital psychiatry provides consultation-liaison services to other
specialties as well as emergency psychiatry assessments.  There are a variety
of adult outpatient services including Psychogeriatrics, a Rapid Response
Team, a Community Outreach Treatment Team and Crisis Services.   Other
outreach services coordinated through GRH include the Hazelglen Mental Health
Outreach Program.

Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Services are very strong within the Grand
River Hospital.  The Inpatient Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Unit is a
regional unit serving the Waterloo and Wellington regions.  Recently expanded,
it works together with both hospital-based outpatient services and community
programs to support client recovery.  GRH offers a wide range of Child and
Adolescent Mental Health Outpatient services including Preschool Diagnostic
Services; the Child and Family Centre's multidisciplinary team which provides
assessment and ongoing treatment; the Young Adult Program alternative school;
the Psychiatric Consultation Clinic and Crisis Services.

**Grand River Hospital's Freeport Site** completed expansion and renovation
includes a new 33 bed unit for those with severe & persistent mental illness,
a 7 bed transition unit, a 10 bed psycho-geriatric assessment unit and further
outpatient and outreach services including day programs.

**Additional Outpatient Programs**  \- In addition to those outpatient
programs offered through the area hospitals as described above, Waterloo and
Guelph are supported by numerous other outpatient services.  These include
collaborative psychiatric care with Family Health Teams and local shelters, a
Mobile Crisis Team, Specialized Geriatric Services, Psychiatric Services at
the University of Guelph and the University of Waterloo Student Health
Centres, Cambridge Memorial Hospital and the Canadian Mental Health
Association in Guelph which offers an Early Psychosis program, general adult
psychiatric assessment and treatment, outpatient child psychiatry assessments,
flexible assertive community treatment team, case coordination, group
psychotherapy, and an outpatient adult Eating Disorders program.



**Guelph General Hospital**  \- is a dynamic, comprehensive acute care
facility serving a population of 180,000 people throughout Guelph and
Wellington County.  In 2001, all of the City of Guelph's hospital-based, acute
care services were integrated into an expanded and completely updated Guelph
General Hospital.  Services include 24-hour emergency coverage, advanced
technology and diagnostic support, and specialty programs such as surgery,
orthopaedics, cardiac care, obstetrics, gynaecology and paediatrics.
Emergency room services include assessment of psychiatric presentations and
partnership with Homewood Health Centre.  Consultation Liaison services are
also available to provide psychiatric consultation to medical services within
the hospital.

**Homewood Health Centre**  \- is a leader in mental health and addiction
treatment, providing local acute mental health services as well as specialized
mental health services to Canadians who travel from all parts of the country.
Located in Guelph, Ontario, Homewood holds 286 beds, and provides care to more
than 4, 000 inpatients and outpatients annually.  Homewood has received
numerous awards, including the prestigious Canada Award of Excellence -
Quality Award, Healthy Workplace Award and the Order of Excellence Award.

Programs and services offered by Homewood include: 37 bed acute inpatient
psychiatric stabilization program (Trillium), in-patient and out-patient drug,
alcohol, and gambling addiction treatment as well as a combined substance
abuse and trauma safety program; an integrated Mood and Anxiety Program; an
Eating Disorders Program; a program for Older Adults; Comprehensive
Psychiatric Care for persistent mental illness; and a Crisis, Assessment and
Stabilization program.  Homewood also boasts one of the only inpatient
programs in Canada for Traumatic Stress Recovery.  Two Assertive Community
Treatment (ACT) teams (rural and urban) are supported through Homewood as are
an outpatient case co-ordination and transitional care program.

Emergency Mental Health Services operated by Homewood Health Centre are
located at the Guelph General Hospital, which also includes a 4 bed short stay
assessment unit.

All programs are outcomes focused and structured on integrated patient care
and interdisciplinary teams.

**Cambridge Memorial Hospital  **is a key provider of supportive and
therapeutic services for those experiencing mental health difficulties in
Cambridge and North Dumfries.

The types of Mental Health care provided by CMH include: crisis intervention,
individual therapy, family therapy, group therapy, medication and psychiatry
consultation, family support and education, community consultation and
outreach, Psychiatric emergency services, and consultations to the Hospital.  

Programs and services offered by CMH include a 25 bed inpatient unit, a day
hospital that is a group-based program for people aged 18 and over, services
for seniors mainly in the form of home visits and visits to LTC facilities,
adult services and child and family services.

* * *

# Additional Information

Additional information that may be of interest to applicants:



1\. During the 2025 CaRMS National Interview Period, applicants will be
invited to attend one of two virtual, drop-in Meet & Greets with the Program
Director, Associate Program Director, and WRC Regional Education Lead.   This
will be an informal opportunity to put names to faces and pose questions about
both campuses of program leadership. Please note that attendance at either of
these sessions is entirely voluntary, and will not factor into the Program's
final rank order list.



Sessions will occur:  
  

**Tuesday, January 21, 2025  \- 1930-2030h EST**; or

**Sunday, January 26, 2025 - 1600-1700h EST**



Further details will be provided if/when an interview offer is extended.





2\. Hear about the Program from the McMaster Psychiatry residents themselves!
Please follow the link below to a resident-produced video - we hope you enjoy
as much as we have:



[McMaster Psychiatry Residents' CaRMS
Video](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1BH_17YWLYhj22IG2be6r99NeLDUoVcmy/view?usp=sharing)

* * *

# FAQ

**1.   How many spots are in the McMaster Waterloo Regional Campus program?**

  * Two (2) Canadian Medical Graduates will be accepted for the 2025 CaRMS Match.

  * One (1) International Medical Graduates will be accepted for the 2025 CaRMS Match.



**2.   Are separate applications required for the Hamilton and Waterloo
Regional Campus programs?**

Yes.

Applicants must submit separate applications through CaRMS for each of the
Hamilton and Waterloo Regional Campus Psychiatry Programs.

Offers for interviews will be made separately by each campus program.  An
interview offer by one campus does not guarantee an offer at the other campus.

**NEW THIS YEAR:  ** Applicants selected for interview at each of the Hamilton
and WRC campuses will be able to complete interviews for both programs on a
single day.



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27269?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27269