#  University of Ottawa - Medical Microbiology - Ottawa  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1 click here

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Vincent Deslandes  

Address Division of Microbiology  
501 Smyth Road  
Box 115, The Ottawa Hospital  
Ottawa, Ontario, K1H 8L6  

Work  613-737-8899 x 74013

Websites of Interest [ University of Ottawa - Department of Pathology and
Laboratory Medicine, Division of Microbiology
](https://www.uottawa.ca/faculty-medicine/pathology/pgme/medical-microbiology)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Sarah Kingham

Title: Program Administrator

Email: skingham@eorla.ca

Phone: (613) 737-8899 ext. 74013

  

* * *

# Important Information

**All candidates must meet the Ontario Criteria of Eligibility** found
[here](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-criteria/provincial-
criteria/ontario/).

**MCCQE (Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Examination) Part 1 results** :  

Trainees will be required to disclose their MCCQE Part 1 examination results
upon entry into any of the University of Ottawa's training programs. **Please
note that the MCCQE Part 1 is not a requirement to begin residency.** The
purpose of this disclosure is to allow for resources to be provided to the few
residents who would benefit from extra support early in their residency to
maximize their success. ** **  

**Failure to meet or provide proof of any of the stated requirements may
result in an applicant’s file not being reviewed or removed from the Rank
Order List.**  



**NOTE:**  

**Competence by Design -** The Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Canada (RCPSC) has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based
medical education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/resources/cbd-videos-webinars-e),
aims to enhance patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong
learning with evolving patient needs.  

CBD uses time as a resource rather than the basis for progression. For the
majority of trainees, it is not anticipated that the duration of training will
change. Residency programs are broken down into stages, and each stage
encompasses a series of entrustable professional activities (EPAs) and
milestones based on required competencies. These EPAs and milestones create
more targeted learning outcomes and involve more frequent, formative
assessments within the clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing
and receiving feedback on the skills they need.  

Our program has transitioned to CBD. All programs, CBD and traditional, will
continue to lead to RCPSC-approved certification. Within a CBD program, all
EPAs (documented within an electronic portfolio), stage promotions and the
Royal College examination must be successfully completed to achieve
certification. For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Our program aims to prepare and enable trainees to be future leaders in the
field of Medical Microbiology. We are looking for individuals we can be
confident are committed to a career in Medical Microbiology, dedicated to
advancing its rapidly evolving role in patient care and can learn, understand,
and apply the large volume of material required to be successful. When
applying, trainees are encouraged to highlight characteristics and examples of
their ability to fulfil these competencies as applications will be reviewed
with these desired attributes in mind.

Candidates who have done electives in either Medical Microbiology and/or
Infectious Diseases will have a better understanding of the field, however,
these electives are not an absolute requirement. Basic Science/Microbiology
experience or Undergraduate Basic Science/Microbiology education prior to
medical school is beneficial but not essential.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  * Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  * Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  * Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  * Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three reference letters are required. If more than three are submitted, only
the first three submitted will be considered.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Please include why you are interested in Microbiology and what you have done
to prepare yourself for this residency. Please indicate why are you are
competitive candidate and why we should pick you. Also include why you are
interested in coming to the University of Ottawa Medical Microbiology Program
specifically.

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

For applicants who have completed a Bachelor's Degree, please provide the
Undergraduate Transcripts.

CEGEP Transcript

If applicable please provide CEGEP transcripts.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All applications are reviewed by the Program Director and the selection
committee. The selection committee consists of at least two Medical
Microbiologists, a Clinical Microbiologist, an Infectious Disease Physician
(Adult or Pediatric ID Program Director), and the Pathology and Laboratory
Medicine Department chair. Each member of the committee thoroughly reviews all
applications and provides feedback to the group. Individuals are offered
interviews based on consensus by the committee. Those offered interviews will
meet with each member of the selection committee as well as other members of
the Microbiology Division. Each interviewer will provide feedback to the
committee that will then rank candidates.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 28, 2025
  * January 31, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interview Date for Microbiology **Jan 28,
2024** and a back-up/overflow date of Jan 31, 2024.  
  
The program will contact those applicants who are selected for an interview
via e-mail as well as through CaRMS Online. Candidates that are not contacted
by e-mail will not be offered an interview.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The overall goals of the interview
day are to get to know the candidate and allow for candidates to have the best
information regarding our training program.  
  
Interviews are an opportunity for the candidate and program to introduce
themselves to each other. Candidates will meet with all selection committee
members during 30-45-minute sessions, with one or two interviewers per
session. Questions are developed by the interviewers themselves to evaluate
the candidate based on preset measures as well as to get to know the candidate
and assess how well suited they are for our program and department. There will
be an opportunity for the candidate to ask each interviewer questions as well.  
  
A tour of the Microbiology Laboratory will be conducted to provide the
applicant with an appreciation of the workspace available to the residents.
Current residents will meet with the candidates as a group. This is purely an
information gathering session for candidates to ask questions and will have no
bearing on the interview outcome.  
  
Candidates will have the opportunity to attend Infectious Disease City Wide
Rounds which features educational cases from one of The Ottawa Hospital
Campuses or the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario. These weekly rounds
are one of the many educational opportunities available here and are
representative of the wealth of clinical cases encountered in our catchment
area. We hope that this will provide the candidate with the best understanding
of our program and enable them to appreciate the faculty's commitment to the
education of the residents.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The selection is based on:

  * Academic Performance and a broad-based science background
  * Reference letters 
  * Genuine interest in Medical Microbiology and Laboratory Medicine 
  * Leadership skills, interpersonal skills, and communication skills 

Selection Committee members will evaluate each candidate separately based on
preset measures, taking into consideration both the CaRMS application and
Interview process. The overall rank list is based on the ranking performed by
the interviewers, and the consensus of the Selection Committee.

## Program goals

After completion of training at the University of Ottawa Medical Microbiology
Program residents will be high caliber Medical Microbiologists who can provide
effective consultation in the specialty and fulfil clinical roles in
community, public health, and academic settings. Throughout the program
curriculum the residents acquire a knowledge of the theoretical basis of the
specialty, including its foundations in medical science and research. They
will become competent in the clinical practice of infectious disease and
infection prevention and control, as they must acquire the knowledge, skills
and attitudes for effective patient centered care with service to diverse
populations. Residents are expected to develop skills for lifelong self-
directed learning and teaching. Also essential is the development of effective
communication and administrative skills required for a partnership with
laboratory technologists, managers and other physicians and healthcare
providers.

Our program allows the resident to pursue special interests within the field
of Microbiology while also ensuring success in attaining the fundamental
requirements of the discipline. We aim to equip our trainees with a
competitive skill set that enables them to be future leaders in the field of
Medical Microbiology.

## Selection process goals

The overall goal of the selection process is to identify applicants who are
committed to a career in Medical Microbiology and who possess the skills and
attributes essential to succeed and lead as exceptional consultant laboratory
physicians in the field of Microbiology.

Specifically, we aim to identify and recruit applicants:

  * Who have shown aptitude for leadership, scholarship, knowledge translation, research and continuous improvement 
  * Who have demonstrated exceptional professionalism and collegiality through the ability to interact and communicate with patients, colleagues, laboratory technologists and other health care providers and team members 
  * Who have an enthusiasm for continuous and self-directed learning and are adaptable to the various demands of residency training 
  * Who have demonstrated during the interview process that they are well suited for our program and department 

## File review process

Review team composition : The Selection Committee includes the Medical
Microbiology Program Director, Medical Microbiologists, a Clinical
Microbiologist, the Infectious Disease Program Director (Adult or Pediatric)
and the Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Department Head. There will be
contributions as well from other Microbiologists including the Division Head
of Microbiology.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Overall content and quality are evaluated in addition but not limited to each component of education, awards, research, publications, leadership experience and volunteer activities.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We do consider participation in and evaluations for electives related to the field of Medical Microbiology important as it shows a true interest in the discipline, however, electives in these areas are not required to be considered for program entry. The candidate must demonstrate that they have clinical experience to ensure they are making an informed decision about entering Medical Microbiology.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We evaluate all examinations provided for a passing score.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We look at these activities as a reflection of the candidate’s interests, ability to balance wellness activities and for evidence of transferable skills.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  We evaluate leadership positions and programs that develop leadership skills.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  We evaluate overall clinical performance and comments looking for all aspects of professionalism, communication, leadership, collaboration, organizational, and academic skills.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  We evaluate interest in and dedication to the discipline of Medical Microbiology and our program. We also evaluate creativity and ability to communicate eloquently.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  We evaluate all reference letters for source, interest in Medical Microbiology, review of candidate’s character and evidence of excellence in CanMEDS roles including academic merit, collaboration, communication, professionalism, and leadership.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research experience, publications or presentation at conferences are not required to apply however they are an asset. We evaluate participation in research activities including publications looking for research potential and ability, scientific curiosity and interest in Microbiology or Infectious Diseases.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We evaluate all past performance including undergraduate and graduate studies for a strong academic record.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Electives related to the field of Microbiology such as but not limited to
Medical Microbiology, Infectious Disease or Public Health are considered to
reflect interest in and knowledge of our Specialty but are not mandatory
requirements.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We evaluate the ability to work in a multidisciplinary team and to collaborate in multiple spheres through descriptions of previous projects or initiatives.   
Collegiality |  The ability to interact in a collegial and respectful manner is evaluated. Behaviour, and attitudes that are demonstrated by the candidate are observed.   
Communication skills |  We evaluate proficiency in spoken communication with individuals as well as within a group. Looking for clear, concise, and thoughtful answers to interview questions.   
Health advocacy |  We will evaluate the candidate’s desire to advocate for the medical community and patients.   
Interest in the discipline |  We will be evaluating for genuine interest in the field of Medical Microbiology and an understanding of Laboratory Medicine and how it differs from Clinical disciplines. We are also looking for knowledge of the role of a Medical Microbiologist and why it would be a choice for the candidate.   
Interest in the program |  We are looking for a genuine interest in the Medical Microbiology Residency Program at the University of Ottawa as demonstrated by a general understanding of the program structure and its unique elements.   
Leadership skills |  Looking for the candidate to demonstrate how they have developed leadership skills, how they have applied them, and how they aim to build on these skills.   
Professionalism |  All aspects of interactions will be evaluated for professionalism and maturity. Looking for examples of adaptability and ability to self-reflect.   
Scholarly activities |  We are looking for an understanding of any scholarly activities they have undertaken and evaluating for future research potential and interest.   
Other interview component(s) |  We will be looking for conflict resolution and problem-solving skills. We will also explore how the applicant will fit into the environment in our division.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Medical Microbiology training at the University of Ottawa relies on
synergistic collaborations with the Adult and Pediatric Infectious Disease
training programs leading to an integrated, rich academic program for
residents in all three programs. Collegial relationships between the Divisions
provide excellent learning opportunities in the laboratory and clinical areas
while promoting good role modeling and collaboration. There are common
structured and protected academic activities built into the curriculum of the
three training programs, including shared City-Wide Rounds, Journal Club,
Academic Half Day Lectures, Case Rounds and Plate Rounds.

Microbiology diagnostic testing is now centralized at the Regional
Microbiology Reference Laboratory (EORLA) located at The Ottawa Hospital,
General Campus and the Children’s Hospital of Eastern Ontario. EORLA serves 18
hospitals in Ottawa and eastern Ontario resulting in a population of over 3
million being served from both community and tertiary care settings. Residents
will have the opportunity to experience a large volume of complex samples from
diverse patient populations and rich clinical scenarios. Current
Microbiologists provide consulting services to client hospitals that can
further provide experience with consultations centered around community-based
medicine in community hospitals. Our general microbiology offering is at the
forefront of Total Laboratory Automation with the modular BD Kiestra platform,
which allows for efficient handling of the large volume of samples coming from
all our client sites. During the COVID pandemic, our molecular suite has been
modernized, allowing for sophisticated molecular diagnostics offering virology
and, eventually, direct from sample next-generation sequencing.

The program allows for ample opportunities for clinical and basic research
through collaborations with various clinical departments. In addition to our
close connection with Adult and Pediatric ID, there are well established
collaborations that exist between Medical Microbiology and Malignant
Hematology, Orthopedics as well as Public Health.

The program is flexible, and the Program Director will work with the resident
to allow each resident to attain personal goals and accommodate residents’
special interests.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Microbiology Training at the University of Ottawa is a 5-year program.
Each year consists of 13 Blocks, each approximately 4 weeks long. A specific
rotation is assigned to each block. There are exceptions where a block can
consist of two rotations that are 2 weeks in length.

**Medical Microbiology Transition to Discipline and Foundations of Discipline
(PGY-1:_Basic Clinical Training)_  **

The majority of the first year of training is designed to give the trainee a
broad base of clinical training to support an understanding of Medical
Microbiology in the hospital and community and consists of medical and
surgical rotations. This corresponds to Transition to Discipline and
Foundation of Discipline stages of CBD. The resident will do the first three
blocks in Transition to Discipline which consists of one introductory block in
the Microbiology Laboratory, one Adult Infectious Disease block and one block
of General Internal Medicine. The remaining blocks are selected to complete a
broad exposure and therefore will include rotations in Internal Medicine or
Subspecialties, Pediatrics, Family Medicine, General Surgery, and Emergency
Medicine.

**Medical Microbiology Foundations of Discipline and Core of Discipline (PGY-2
to 5 years): **

Years two to four of the training Program encompasses the components of the
Foundations of Discipline and Core of Discipline stages of CDB.

The second year is the first year of core microbiology training, however
ongoing clinical exposure is provided to maintain the trainee's understanding
of the role of the Microbiology laboratory in clinical medicine. The majority
of time will be spent in the Microbiology laboratory. Trainees will rotate
through and spend ample time in Bacteriology, Mycobacteriology, Mycology,
Molecular and Serology sections of the laboratory. Clinical rotations will
include Adult and Pediatric Infectious Disease Consult services. The formal
Quality and Laboratory Management longitudinal curriculum will also begin.
Towards the end of the year there will be dedicated research and elective
time. The resident is however encouraged to engage in research and related
activities earlier. They are required to start coverage of the Microbiology
Service after hours.

During the PGY-3 to 4 years and the beginning of PGY5 year the core
microbiology training continues, and trainees gradually assume a more senior
role and responsibilities in the laboratory and other rotations. They will
lead laboratory quality initiatives, validations etc. and attend various
Laboratory and Hospital Committee Meetings. Parasitology training is at Public
Health Ontario Laboratories. Quality and Laboratory Management longitudinal
curriculum will continue, and residents are expected to complete quality
improvement projects in the laboratory. There are requirements for Clinical
Rotations however in addition to Infectious Disease Consult Service, these
will also include Infection Control, Antimicrobial Stewardship and Public
Health. The opportunity for electives and research blocks is incorporated
throughout the years as well. A longitudinal clinic will also add to the
trainees’ clinical experience and give them an appreciation for longitudinal
care of patients. The clinics that residents can participate in are General
Infectious Disease, HIV, Travel and Tropical Medicine, Mycobacteria,
Hepatitis, and Sexual Health.

**Medical Microbiology Transition to Practice (PGY-5 year): **

The final year of training encompasses the final components of Core of
Discipline and Transition to Practice stages of CBD.

The final year of training is planned to provide further experience in
microbiology and the trainee accepts a greater level of responsibility to
finally perform at the level of a Junior Attending Medical Microbiologist. The
final year is flexible and can be planned to take the needs and interests of
the resident into account. Dedicated research experience is strongly
encouraged this year although research projects are expected at all levels of
training.

**Medical Microbiology Research:**  

During their training, the trainee is expected to participate in a research
project that is to be presented at the annual Pathology and Laboratory
Medicine Research Day, Annual Microbiology and Infectious Disease Research Day
and at an annual national or international conference. Research blocks are
built into the rotation schedule and are designed to be flexible to support
the opportunities that develop or emerge over the course of the training. The
research interests of members of the Division of Microbiology and the Division
of Infectious Diseases are diverse and include molecular diagnostics,
laboratory detection and molecular epidemiology of antimicrobial resistant
bacteria, epidemiology of hospital-acquired infections, viral pathogenesis and
vaccine development, hepatitis, basic and clinical aspects of HIV/AIDS,
tropical diseases, etc. Support is available for residents to attend meetings
and present their research.

**Academic Curriculum:  **

Weekly Academic Half Days are protected time for the residents and are
combined with the Adult and Pediatric Infectious Diseases Residency Programs.
Lectures run on a two-year cycle and topics encompass both Medical
Microbiology and Clinical Infectious Disease. In addition to didactive
lectures there is weekly Journal Club, Plate Rounds, and Case Rounds that are
attended by residents and faculty. Regional City- Wide Infectious Diseases
Rounds are held weekly and are also considered to be part of the Academic
Curriculum.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Regional Microbiology Reference Laboratory (The Ottawa Hospital – General
Campus)  **

\- General bacteriology - Adult and Pediatric

\- Containment Level 3 Mycobacteriology Laboratory

\- Molecular diagnostics

\- Mycology



**Regional Microbiology Reference Laboratory (Children’s Hospital of Eastern
Ontario)**  

\- Molecular diagnostics including laboratory developed tests and viral load
testing (e.g., EBV, CMV, HBV, HCV)

\- Serology



**The Ottawa Hospital – General Campus  **

\- Adult Infectious Disease Clinical Training

  * Hematopoietic Stem Cell and Solid Organ Transplant 
  * Orthopedic Surgery 
  * Rehabilitation Center 

  * Cystic Fibrosis Center 
  * Cancer Center 
  * Ottawa Research Institute 



**The Ottawa Hospital – Civic Campus  **

\- Adult Infectious Disease Clinical Training

  * Neurosurgery 
  * Ottawa Heart Institute 
  * Regional Trauma Center 



**Children’s Hospital of Eastern Ontario  **

\- Pediatric Infectious Disease Clinical Training

\- CHEO Research Institute



The Eastern Ontario Regional Laboratory Association (EORLA), working with 18
hospitals in Eastern Ontario, provides lab services for community and tertiary
medical/surgical care. The main Microbiology Training site is the Regional
Microbiology Reference Laboratory of EORLA, located at the General Campus of
TOH and CHEO. The Ottawa Hospital is a multi-site hospital with 1200 beds and
provides tertiary care to service. The referral area also includes patients
from Eastern Quebec and Nunavut. The University of Ottawa Heart Institute is
located within the Ottawa Hospital Civic campus and provides tertiary level
cardiac medical and surgical care including transplantation. The Civic Campus
is the trauma center in Ottawa and is supported by the full complement of
surgical services. The General Campus provides tertiary level care for the
medical subspecialties with kidney and bone marrow transplantation, TB, HIV
and HCV clinics. Services for high-risk pregnancy and a level 3 NICU are
present at the General Campus. All regional pediatric services are centralized
at the Children’s Hospital of Eastern Ontario.

* * *

# Additional Information

No additional information.

* * *

# FAQ

**What resources are available to residents?**  

There is a Resident’s Office which is a clean space located in the
Microbiology Laboratory at the General Campus of The Ottawa Hospital. Each
resident will have their own workspace and mailbox. Textbooks and other
resources are also located in this area. Outside the Resident’s office is the
Resident’s Microscope and Laboratory workspace. This area is used for teaching
as well as for the residents to work on unknowns. Both areas are in close
proximity to the Microbiologists office so as to facilitate teaching etc.  

Electronic medical resources include access to the laboratory information
system, digital imaging, presentation software, and related educational and
research resources through The Ottawa Hospital and The University of Ottawa.
The program is very flexible to resident requests with respect to learning
resources and conference funding and financial support is available upon
discussion with the Program Director.

**What is the on-call schedule?**  

Call load follows the PARO agreement. Microbiology call begins in the second
year of training.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26331?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26331