#  University of Toronto - Family Medicine - Integrated Communities - Uxbridge
Markham  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 09, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Stuart Murdoch  
Dr. Karina Prucnal  

Address Department of Family and Community Medicine  
500 University Avenue  
3rd Floor  
Toronto, Ontario, M5G 1V7  

Work  (416) 946-4049

Websites of Interest [ Family and Community Medicine
](https://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/residency)  
[ Post Graduate Medical Education Oﬃce U of T
](https://pg.postmd.utoronto.ca/)  
[ The Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada 2024 R1 Match Resources
](https://www.afmc.ca/afmc-decisions-regarding-2024-resident-r-1-match/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Ms. Holly Downey

Title: Recruitment and Admissions Coordinator

Email: dfcm.admissions@utoronto.ca

Phone: (416) 946-4049

  

Name: Dr. Karina Prucnal

Title: Associate Program Director, Recruitment and Admissions

Email: dfcm.admissions@utoronto.ca

Phone: (416) 946-4049

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion**  
All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of the
University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

  
**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)  
** The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.  
  
_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

### FMProC- Requirements for 2025

The University of Toronto Family Medicine Program will be using the FMProC as
part of our selection process. The FMProC (Family Medicine Professional
Choices) is a Family Medicine context-speciﬁc Situational Judgement Test.

All applicants will be required to write FMProC for their application to be
deemed complete. More details and information about registration for FMProC
can be found here: [www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/)

### Please note registration for the first round will open on September 11,
2024, and the testing window will begin in October 2024.

### Late requests will not be considered.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

The University of Toronto's Department of Family & Community Medicine (DFCM)
is recognized internationally for its clinical and educational excellence. The
goal of the program is to prepare you to practice Family Medicine anywhere in
the province (urban or rural) and the country.

  * The DFCM program has five Family Medicine residency streams you may apply to separately through CaRMS: 
    1. Greater Toronto Area (GTA), Barrie or Newmarket, 3. Midland or Orillia, 4. Integrated Communities, and **5\. Integrated Communities – Uxbridge Markham.**
  * The same application should be submitted for each stream to which you apply. Only one application will be reviewed.
  * Attendance at only **one** Virtual Interview Session is required if you apply to one or more of the five University of Toronto streams.
  * Please see the [Admissions Process Section ](https://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/how-apply)of our website for further

Please read the following information in detail to ensure your application
receives full consideration.  
  
In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Examinations

Required

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).



Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

A Family Medicine Structured Reference Letter (SRL) is used by all Family
Medicine Programs across the country that require a reference letter. This
tool will allow for more consistency in the selection process for Family
Medicine admissions. The SRL was developed by a subgroup of Family Medicine
Residency Programs, which has been vetted by all Family Medicine programs in
Canada. Three SRLs are required. If possible, one or more SRLs from a Family
Physician is helpful but not required.

Please DO NOT provide more than three SRLs, only the ﬁrst three SRLs will be
considered. Should your referee submit a traditional reference letter, it will
not be reviewed, and your application may be deemed incomplete.

*Please note that the Family Medicine SRL is provided to your referee through CaRMS upon submitting a reference request. After submitting the reference request, applicants do not have to send anything else to their referees.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

If your Medical School Transcript is in a language other than the program
language of English or French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Please provide a narrative of 500 words or less describing how your background
and experiences have led to an interest and commitment to a career in Family
Medicine. In addition, please address what you envision your professional life
to be 5-6 years from now.

Please include a supplementary statement titled “Transcript Addendum” at the
beginning of your Personal Letter explaining any poor academic performance or
failure, any gaps in medical school training or if you did not graduate with
your cohort. The transcript addendum will not count towards your word limit
for your Personal Letter. Failing to submit a transcript addendum, if the
criteria apply, will result in the application not being considered.

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 27, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: All interviews will be held in the evening
from 6:00pm-9:00pm Eastern  
  
Standard Time (ET). Registration times will be provided to those invited for
an interview closer to the scheduled date.  
  
Attendance at only **one **Virtual Interview Session is required if you apply
to 1 or more of the five University of Toronto streams: 1. Greater Toronto
Area (GTA), 2. Barrie or Newmarket, 3. Midland or Orillia, 4. Integrated
Communities, and **5\. Integrated Communities - Uxbridge Markham.**  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Late applications will **NOT**  be
considered.  
  
If successful, an interview oﬀer will be sent via e-mail end of December to
interview at **one **of our Virtual Interview Sessions dates. If you have not
received an e-mail, it may have been mistakenly flagged as spam and placed in
the junk e-mail folder. Please check all your e-mail folders.  
  
One resident and one faculty member will review applications, while a diﬀerent
resident and faculty member who have **not** seen your written application
will conduct interviews virtually.  
  
To learn more about the Virtual Interviews please see our [Virtual
Interview](https://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/faq-canadian-medical-graduate-cmg-
virtual-interview-session) [Session FAQ](https://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/faq-
canadian-medical-graduate-cmg-virtual-interview-
session)[s](http://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/prospectivelearners/prosres/FM_Residency_Admission/admission_Canada_US_schools/admission_interview_FAQ.htm)  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

The University of Toronto's Department of Family & Community Medicine (DFCM)
is recognized internationally for its clinical and educational excellence. The
goal of the program is to prepare residents to practice Family Medicine
anywhere in the province (urban or rural) and the country.

Our program seeks to train leaders in education and research in Family
Medicine who are able to practice and provide high quality comprehensive care
to communities both locally and internationally. Accordingly, successful
applicants will have a strong academic record that demonstrates proﬁciency in
Family Medicine and related subjects. Applicants providing evidence of strong
academic performance and strong interest and commitment to Family Medicine
will be prioritized to receive an invitation to interview. Successful
applicants will be able to demonstrate a strong understanding of Family
Medicine and evidence of interest and commitment to a career in Family
Medicine at the time of interviews.

## Selection process goals

Please include a supplementary statement titled "Transcript Addendum" at the
beginning of your Personal Letter explaining any poor academic performance or
failure, any gaps in medical school training or if you did not graduate with
your cohort. The transcript addendum will not count towards your word limit
for your Personal Letter. Failing to submit a transcript addendum, if the
criteria apply, will result in the application not being considered.

Applicants who fail to meet criteria for strong academic performance will not
be considered further. Interviewed applicants will be ranked based on an
aggregate score of their application and interview. The selection committee
reserves the right to adjust final rankings by consensus to address issues of
program priority and diversity. Scores on the file review and interviews will
be used to determine a total score. An applicant's total score will determine
their position on the rank order list.

## File review process

Review team composition : Consists of the Department of Family & Community
Medicine Program Directors and Leadership Team, overseen by the Associate
Program Director, Admissions and Recruitment. Residents and Faculty members
will review applications to determine a list of applicants to interview.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Interest and commitment to Family Medicine.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Ideally, we are looking for and rewarding applicants who have completed a broad range of electives including our specialty if possible.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Family Medicine Professional Choices Assessment (FMProC). Please upload results to CaRMS online.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Taken into consideration in global assessment.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership skills in Family Medicine and related subjects.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic excellence.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Please provide a narrative of 500 words or less describing how your medical training has led your interest and commitment to a career in Family Medicine. Please address how you envision your professional life in the next 5 years and how you think our Family Medicine residency program will help you get there. Please include a supplementary statement titled “Transcript Addendum” at the beginning of your Personal Letter explaining any poor academic performance or failure, any gaps in medical school training or if you did not graduate with your cohort. The transcript addendum will not count towards your word limit for your Personal Letter. Failing to submit a transcript addendum, if the criteria apply, will result in the application not being considered.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Three Family Medicine Structured Reference Letter (SRL) are required. If possible, one or more SRLs from a Family Physician is helpful but not required.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest and commitment to Family Medicine.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic excellence.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Ideally, we are looking for and rewarding applicants
who have completed a broad range of electives including our specialty if
possible.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  In accordance with CanMed Roles.   
Collegiality |  Used in global assessment.   
Communication skills |  In accordance with CanMed Roles.   
Health advocacy |  In accordance with CanMed Roles.   
Interest in the discipline |  Understanding of the discipline.   
Interest in the program |  Understanding of the Program.   
Leadership skills |  In accordance with CanMed Roles.   
Professionalism |  In accordance with CanMed Roles.   
Scholarly activities |  In accordance with CanMed Roles.   
Other interview component(s) |  There are no other interview components.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * As regional hubs for the surrounding area, Oak Valley Health provides a wide range of primary and secondary services, creating a rich family practice learning environment. 
  * Residents will experience the full scope of Family Medicine and specialty rotations while serving patients from various cultural and socio-economic demographics.
  * DFCM residents are trained to practice in any setting. They have access to a broad scope of patient populations and clinical experiences in an inter-professional team environment.
  * DFCM residents experience the best of both worlds: the unique learning opportunities of a large, internationally- respected program and the richness of learning at their hospital teaching site.
  * Residents are active participants in the program and have ﬂexibility to achieve their own speciﬁc learning goals.
  * The DFCM program is enhanced by a strong academic focus. Weekly academic teaching provides exposure to current issues and topics aﬀecting the practice of Family Medicine.
  * The Family Medicine program is accredited by the College of Family Physicians of Canada.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

All residents in the Integrated Communities – Uxbridge Markham Stream spend
their two years of residency in a hybrid model between Oak Valley Health
Markham and Uxbridge sites. Family Medicine Residents constitute the majority
of learners at these sites and all hospital-based rotations have a strong
primary care focus. In their two years, residents will integrate their GTA
Markham experience with the community site of Uxbridge, preparing learners to
practice comprehensive Family Medicine anywhere.

Residents will meet regularly with the Integrated Communities – Uxbridge
Markham program director or designate to allow input into the program as the
year progresses. Elective time is built into both years of the Integrated
Communities -Uxbridge Markham Stream for the residents to gain extra
experience in any area of particular interest. All Family Medicine Residents
in the Integrated Communities – Uxbridge Markham Stream will continue to
participate with other DFCM residents in weekly Academic Half-Days as
protected teaching time. Residents will have the option to join these teaching
sessions virtually.  In addition to these Academic Half-Days, Family Medicine
residents from all teaching sites will come together every few months for a
focused day of seminars and lectures at the Central Core Days.

Uxbridge is conveniently located 28 minutes northeast of Markham and offers
residents newly-built, modern facilities next to the GP-led hospital. Family
Medicine Residents will follow a horizontal FM curriculum in Markham and
Uxbridge over the two years during which they will work with diﬀerent
preceptors to learn diﬀerent practice styles.

Residents will be able to develop a mini-practice of their own in Uxbridge
which they will follow for the two years, preparing them for independent
practice. Residents will also take advantage of the local community hospital
and the community specialists to augment the learning occurring in the family
practice unit. Uxbridge selectives with family physicians practicing women’s
health, dermatology, psychotherapy, MSK procedures, pre-travel consultations
and more are also available. Tightknit collaboration of full array of
interdisciplinary professionals (midwives, physiotherapists, pharmacists,
nurse practitioner and more) will be accessible to residents.

While centrally set objectives and assessment standards are used across all
University of Toronto hospital teaching sites, our Integrated Communities –
Uxbridge Markham site has the distinct advantage to leverage local strengths
and resources to deliver unique mix of learner-centered experiences.

### Competency-Based Curriculum

A strong primary care system requires well-prepared, comprehensive generalists
with skills and knowledge relevant to their context. Our program is a
recognized leader in competency-based Family Medicine education. This approach
ensures learners acquire the knowledge, skills, attitudes and behaviours that
are necessary to practice Family Medicine. Our competency-based curriculum
builds on the internationally recognized CanMEDS-FM (Family Medicine)
framework and roles—defining the specific competencies and learning
experiences a skilled family physician requires. Our unique staged development
model links competencies to the various stages of residency, from competencies
required to begin clinical training through to enhanced competencies required
by family physicians with special interests in areas such as emergency
medicine, low-risk obstetrics, palliative care, care of the elderly, and many
more.

_Please see our website for more details_[ _DFCM Competency Based
Curriculum_](https://dfcm.utoronto.ca/curriculum) _._

### Self-Evaluation Tool

  1. Online Practice Proﬁle

The delivery of our curriculum is paired with innovative tools for monitoring
and assessment. An online resident Practice Proﬁle tool allows residents to
document and track their clinical experience to ensure it is comprehensive and
fulﬁlls the competencies deﬁned in the curriculum.

  2. Progress Testing

Twice yearly, the program administers the Family Medicine Medical Expert
Assessment of Progress (FM-MAP) for all residents. Residents are tested on
knowledge application in the domains that reﬂect the program’s competency-
based curriculum. As they write the test iteratively, residents gain an
understanding of their progress in the Family Medicine Expert role and are
encouraged to use their results to tailor their future clinical experience,
studying, and preparation for certiﬁcation examinations.

  3. Field Notes

Field Notes have been designed to be quick, frequent low-stakes/formative
forms of feedback and assessment. After patient encounters or during post-
clinic review, preceptors provide oral feedback to trainees. This can then be
documented as a Field Note and submitted electronically through a custom-
designed web interface.

  4. Six Month Progress Review

Six Month Progress review meetings, one-on-one meetings between a resident and
their Teaching Hospital Program Director or designate. During this meeting,
career goals, case mix, academic achievement, resident academic project and
general progress are discussed. Successful completion of progress review
meetings for all residents is logged via a centralized web interface.

### PGCorEd™ Module – Resident as a Teacher

These web-based e-learning module provides the foundation for the intrinsic
Can MEDS- FM roles and aims to help PGY1 residents transition from the learner
role of medical school to the practitioner role. All University of Toronto
residents are required to complete the web based PGCorEd™ core Resident as a
Teacher module as part of their residency program certiﬁcation.

### Virtual Care Competency Training Roadmap (ViCCTR) Modules

Web-based interactive e-learning modules designed to support the development
of medical expertise and transformation of clinical reasoning for the virtual
care environment. The modules were developed in collaboration with medical
education experts to ensure our learners develop the necessary skills to
incorporate virtual care into their current and future family practices. All
Family Medicine residents are required to complete the ViCCTR modules as part
of the residency program certification. Please see our website for more
details [ViCCTR Modules](https://dfcm.utoronto.ca/curriculum)

### San’yas Indigenous Cultural Safety Online Training Modules** **

San'yas is a nationally recognized training program aimed at improving
cultural safety for Indigenous people accessing health services. The
curriculum and learning activities have been shown to help residents
strengthen their knowledge, awareness, and skills for working with and
providing service to Indigenous people and communities; work more safely and
eﬀectively with Indigenous people; begin considering their role in correcting,
rebuilding and transforming systems to uproot Indigenous-speciﬁc racism. All
Family Medicine residents are required to complete the San’yas modules as part
of the residency program certiﬁcation.

### Teaching Practices: Community/Rural Family Medicine Experience

All second-year Family Medicine resident complete two consecutive four-week
blocks of community/rural Family Medicine training through the Teaching
Practices (TP) program. The TP network includes more than 90 experienced
faculty located in approximately 35 community/rural practices from southern
Ontario to remote northern Ontario. Residents are required to live in the same
community/rural practice for the duration of TP. Financial assistance is
provided to offset travel and accommodation expenses. [Please see our website
for more details](https://dfcm.utoronto.ca/teaching-practices).

### Academic Project

All residents are required to complete an academic project by the end of their
second year. Although many residents complete a research project, other
academic endeavors such as development of educational materials, audits and
critical reviews of topics are equally acceptable.

### Quality Improvement (QI) Curriculum

Family physicians are increasingly being held accountable for their
performance. The DFCM has a QI curriculum for   PGY1 residents, to equip
residents with the necessary skills to lead teams while eﬀectively ﬁnding new
and easier ways of enhancing patient care, increasing both patient and
provider satisfaction and ultimately improving patient outcomes. Residents are
required to complete a QI practicum in PGY1.

### Academic Half Days

Mandatory Academic Half Days covering core topics in Family Medicine are held
weekly at all hospital teaching sites. A number of times over the academic
year, the entire residency group attends a combination of practice management
and resident-organized central core days. Valuable learning opportunities at
hospital teaching sites may include journal clubs, evidence-based medicine
rounds and grand rounds in Family Medicine**.**

* * *

# Training Sites

To learn more about our hospital teaching sites click,
[here](https://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/postgraduate-residency-program-teaching-
sites).  
  

For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>

* * *

# Additional Information

  1. **Permanent** **Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education oﬃce in order to comply with current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry of Colleges and Universities.
  2. **Matched** **applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data ﬁle to the matched university’s postgraduate education oﬃce. The postgraduate oﬃce will share the information as needed, but not limited to, the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:** The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure****to****meet****or****provide proof** of any of the stated requirements may result in applicant ﬁle being removed at any point during the match.

**Virtual Resident Meet and Greet Sessions:** Applicants who receive an
interview invitation will receive details about the optional Integrated
Communities – Uxbridge Markham stream Virtual Resident Meet and Greet
Sessions, which will take place before your scheduled interview. The Virtual
Resident Meet and Greet Sessions are an opportunity to meet with both faculty
and resident leadership from the Integrated Communities – Uxbridge Markham
stream, introduce applicants to the interview process, and will feature a Q +
A component with resident representatives.** **** **

**Virtual Open House Sessions:** Applicants matched to the U of T Integrated
Communities – Uxbridge Markham stream will be invited to meet with residents
and the Integrated Communities Program Director through a Virtual Open House
session to be held after the release of the CaRMS match results (March 4,
2025). Matched residents may also directly contact hospital teaching Site
Directors, site administrators and chief residents to obtain information.

### Adding Additional Streams:

When applying to the U of T residency program, it is recommended that you
apply to all streams you may be interested in before the CaRMS online
application closes. Adding additional streams after CaRMS online application
closes may be considered until the last UofT scheduled interview on January
27, 2025. In order to be considered for additional streams, you must email
[dfcm.admissions@utoronto.ca ](mailto:dfcm.admissions@utoronto.ca)indicating
which stream(s) you would like to add, as well as add the stream to your CaRMS
online application.

### Car Requirements:

Access to a car with the ability to drive or be driven is required upon
admission. This will allow for full participation in the program to travel
between sites and elective opportunities.

### Additional Training Opportunities:

**1\. Enhanced Skills Program** **(PGY3)**

* Residents can apply to his program in their PGY2 year

Opportunities exist for further training beyond the two years in areas such as
emergency medicine, anesthesia, low- risk obstetrics, women's health, care of
the elderly, sports medicine, and academic fellowship programs. Please see our
website for more details on the [Enhanced Skills
Program](https://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/enhanced-skills-program).

**2.   Family Medicine and Enhanced Skills (FAM-ES) Integrated 3-Year Program
(I3P)**

*Residents can apply to this program in their PGY1 year

The FAM-ES program will integrate PGY3 content (either Palliative Care or Care
of the Elderly) alongside core Family Medicine during the PGY2 and PGY3 years
of training. Upon completion of FAM-ES, graduates are eligible to apply for
the appropriate CCFP PGY3 designation. Please see our website for more details
on [FAM-ES](https://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/family-medicine-enhanced-skills-
fames-integrated-3-year-program-i3p)

**3.   Family Medicine Leadership and Master of Science in System Leadership
and Innovation Integrated 3-Year Program (I3P)**

*Residents can apply to this program in their PGY1 year

The Integrated 3-Year Leadership Program; oﬀers leadership skills to selected
Family Medicine residents in an innovative longitudinal integration of Family
Medicine residency training combined with a Master’s of Science in System
Leadership and Innovation (MScSLI). Please see our website for more details on
the [Integrated 3-year](https://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/family-medicine-
leadership-master-science-system-leadership-and-innovation-integrated-3-year-
program) [Leadership Program](https://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/family-medicine-
leadership-master-science-system-leadership-and-innovation-integrated-3-year-
program)

### Promotional Videos:

[Toronto: The World at Your
Doorstep](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ElmVUKUgVig&feature=youtu.be)

[Why Choose Family Medicine at the University of
Toronto?](https://youtu.be/AkftN6saBY8)

* * *

# FAQ

Please see the following FAQ links:

[Admissions Process FAQs ](https://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/faq-admissions-
process)

[Virtual Interview Session FAQs](https://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/faq-canadian-
medical-graduate-cmg-virtual-interview-session)

[Family Medicine Program FAQs ](https://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/faq-family-
medicine-program)



#  





Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27661?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27661