#  University of Calgary - Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery - Calgary  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on November 26, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Derrick Randall  

Address Surgery  
RRDTC – ENT Clinic RM 21304E  
1820 Richmond Rd SW  
Calgary, Alberta, T2T 5C7  

Fax

Websites of Interest [ University of Calgary Otolaryngology Division
](https://www.ucalgary.ca/entcalgary/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Derrick Randall

Title: Program Director

  

Name: Krista Dagsvik

Title: Program Assistant

Email: krista.dagsvik@ahs.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

The Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery Residency Training Program at the
University of Calgary transitioned to competency-based medical education
(CBME) in July 2017 with all trainees entering the program after this date
affiliated with [Competence by Design
(CBD)](https://www.royalcollege.ca/en/standards-and-accreditation/competence-
by-design.html), which aims to enhance patient care by aligning medical
education and lifelong learning with evolving patient needs and empowering
learners to more fully engage in their education process.

CBD uses time as a framework for competency assessment rather than the basis
for progression. It is not anticipated that the duration of training will
change for the majority of trainees. Residency training is broken down into
[stages](https://canmeds.royalcollege.ca/en/milestones), and each stage will
have a series of entrustable professional activities (EPAs) and milestones
based on the required competencies. These EPAs and milestones improve learning
outcomes and will involve more frequent, formative assessments within the
clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving feedback
on the skills they need.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

In order to provide potential applicants with an overview of the
Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery training program at the University of
Calgary, virtual orientation sessions, involving the program director and
several current residents, sessions will be held on October 22nd (7pm MST) and
November 6th (5pm MST). If you are interested in attending please contact the
program administrator, Ms. Krista Dagsvik.

A virtual social event, hosted by current Otolaryngology residents at the U of
C, will be held prior to our interview day for all applicants selected for an
interview. Attendance is encouraged, but not mandatory.

**Please ensure all required supporting documentation is included in your
application. Late and incomplete applications will not be considered.  **

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

3 letters of reference in the CaRMS format are required. **Additional letters
will not be considered**. References from academic supervisors familiar with
the candidate's academic and personal qualifications are preferred. At least 2
letters should be from otolaryngologists.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Both undergraduate and medical school transcripts are required.



Medical Student Performance Record

The Medical Student Performance Evaluation (MSPE) letter: Formerly called the
Dean's Letter, it summarizes the candidate's medical school performance and
provides a summary evaluation of the student's potential as a resident.



Custom Résumé / CV

Custom CV: A custom curriculum vitae (CV) is required.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  0

Maximum :  250

  

Personal Letter: A personal letter is required and should express the reasons
why the candidate is applying to Otolaryngology and, more specifically, the U
of C program.**  Letters must not exceed 250 words. **



Ophthalmological Report

Vision Assessment: A stereoscopic vision assessment, completed within the
previous 6 months, is required. This could be performed by an optometrist or
ophthalmologist.



Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

Both Undergraduate, and Medical School transcripts are required

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All applications will be reviewed by the program director and selection
committee, and interviews offered to the top ranked applicants.

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: TBD  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews are required and will be
granted at the discretion of the program director and the selection committee.
All interviews will be conducted virtually. There will be four separate
15-minute interviews with members of the residency program committee.
Applicants will be required to provide a back-up telephone number that they
can be reached at during their scheduled interview times in the event of
technical issues with the video conferencing technology.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The University of Calgary has a robust selection process. Applicants will be
evaluated on their written application (including CV, personal letter,
academic record, letters of reference) and interview.

## Program goals

The University of Calgary Otolaryngology Residency Program endeavors to train
well rounded surgeons with a broad skill set, allowing them to pursue careers
in academic or community practice. This is achieved through our dedicated
teaching faculty working closely with the residents throughout all levels of
their training. Our training program consists of operative, clinical, and
simulation experiences, in addition to didactic lectures. Our program prides
itself on a robust operative caseload which residents are exposed to at an
early level of training. Trainees are allowed graduated independence with
clinical responsibilities matching their abilities.  

## Selection process goals

The University of Calgary Otolaryngology Residency Program looks for
applicants with the following abilities and attributes. We expect resident
physicians to behave professionally at all times. Integrity and empathy are
highly valued characteristics. Communication skills are key, both with the
patients and families under their care, as well as the healthcare team
including colleagues and allied healthcare professionals. Enthusiasm for the
specialty and motivation for learning are a necessity. Applicant maturity with
insight into strengths, weaknesses and long-term goals are also sought after.
Finally, academic performance, aptitude in clinical medicine and surgery,
along with research experience are all considered in the resident selection
process.

## File review process

Review team composition : Residency Training Committee which includes numerous
teaching faculty, resident representatives, the research director and the
program director.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  This highlights and summarizes achievements and life experiences.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We encourage applicants to have completed at least one elective in our discipline.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  All applicants are required to complete the Computer-Based Assessment for Sampling Personal Characteristics (CASPer®).   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Considered as part of the CV.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Considered as part of the CV.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Reviewed with consideration of medical school clinical experience.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  A personal letter is required and should express the reasons why the candidate is applying to Otolaryngology and, more specifically, the U of C program. Letters must not exceed 250 words.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Three reference letters are required, additional letters will not be considered. Ideally, at least two of the reference letters are from otolaryngologists.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research experience and publications are considered.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Undergraduate and medical school transcripts are reviewed.   
Other file component(s) |  Vision assessment specifically looking for stereoscopic vision and the CASPer test.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Applicants must be able to demonstrate strong collaboration skills.   
Collegiality |  We are looking for collegial, affable applicants who are easy to work with.   
Communication skills |  Clear, effective communication skills are a must.   
Health advocacy |  We do not evaluate this interview component.   
Interest in the discipline |  Applicants must demonstrate a strong interest and dedication to the discipline.   
Interest in the program |  Applicants must demonstrate a strong interest in the program.   
Leadership skills |  Applicants must demonstrate both leadership and teamwork skills.   
Professionalism |  Applicants must demonstrate a high degree of professionalism.   
Scholarly activities |  A history of strong academics and research is required.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The University of Calgary Otolaryngology Residency Program takes two residents
per year through the CaRMS process. We will be taking two residents through
the CaRMS match in 2025. One of the strengths of our program is the large
clinical volume in multiple teaching hospitals. The large number of teaching
faculty relative to the low number of residents often allows even junior
residents to be the "only resident" on a given ENT rotation, this allows our
residents to gain extensive surgical experience early in their training.  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Otolaryngology – Head and Neck Surgery residents experience competency-based
training, Competence by Design (CBD).  

CBD uses time as a framework rather than the basis for progression. It is not
anticipated that the duration of training will change for the majority of
trainees. Residency programs will be broken down into stages, and each stage
will have a series of milestones based on required competencies. These
milestones will create more targeted learning outcomes and involve more
frequent, formative assessments within the clinical workplace to ensure
residents are developing and receiving feedback on the skills they need.

During the first two years the residents rotate through the otolaryngology
services of the five hospitals, as well other related medical, surgical and
diagnostic services related to otolaryngology. The junior residents
participate in the academic programs provided by the otolaryngology program,
the PGME office, and the Department of Surgery, in addition to various host
services. Much of the material is directed towards preparing for the Surgical
Foundations exam and is based on the CanMEDS competencies.

During the final three years, residents will perform longer ENT rotations at
all five Calgary hospitals, three blocks of electives and a three month
selective. Rotations in head and neck pathology, radiology and radiation
oncology are provided. The clinical focus of the rotations and the clinical
responsibilities of the resident at each site evolve over the five years.
There are also opportunities for one week rotations in the NWT and Yukon
Territory with a U of C otolaryngology staff physician doing outreach work.  

The academic program consists of a didactic lecture and seminar series, the
Department of Surgery and PGME CanMEDS lectures, grand rounds, hospital rounds
(Head and Neck Tumour Board rounds, radiology rounds, and pathology) and
journal clubs. A protected academic half-day is provided for lectures and
seminars on Thursday afternoons. A temporal bone laboratory/FESS lab and
sponsorship to attend a temporal bone, a rhinology dissection course and a
Head and Neck course will be provided. The Canadian Otolaryngology in-training
examination and divisional oral examinations are held annually and biannually
respectively.

Theory and practical training in auditory and vestibular testing are provided.
Residents gain experience in the voice laboratory as well as various
multidisciplinary clinics (cancer clinic, pediatric and adult subspecialty
clinics).

A clinical or basic science research project is to be completed and presented
at the division's research day and at other venues as appropriate. There is
financial support provided by the program and the university for presentation
of resident research including attendance at provincial, national or
international meetings.

Residents take home call in accordance with PARA rules. Depending on the
number of residents on service, this translates to a maximum of 1-in-4 weekend
call and a total of nine call shifts per 28 day block.

* * *

# Training Sites

\- Alberta Children's Hospital

\- Foothills Medical Centre

\- Peter Lougheed Centre

\- Rockyview General Hospital

\- Calgary South Health Campus

\- Tom Baker Cancer Centre / Arthur J.E. Child Comprehensive Cancer Centre

\- Richmond Road Diagnostic Treatment Centre

\- Private offices of Otolaryngology staff



* * *

# Additional Information

The University of Calgary Otolaryngology program prides itself on having an
excellent relationship between staff and residents. Extracurricular activities
include a ski weekend retreat, summer mountain retreat, resident barbeque and
Holiday party.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27023?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27023