#  University of British Columbia - Orthopedic Surgery - Vancouver  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Competitive RoS Stream for All  

##  Last approved on September 25, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Fay Leung  

Address Orthopaedics  
11th Floor, Room 11299, DHCC  
2775 Laurel St.  
Vancouver BC , British Columbia, V5Z 1M9  

Websites of Interest [ UBC Department of Orthopaedic Surgery web site
](https://orthopaedics.med.ubc.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Tom Coules

Title: Residency Program Assistant

  

Name: Dr. Fay Leung

Title: Residency Program Director

Email: fay.leung@ubc.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

The UBC Orthopaedic Residency Program offers two applicant streams:

**1\. A CMG stream.** This stream is open **only** to graduates of Canadian
medical schools. There are **four** positions to be filled within this stream.
**All** graduates of Canadian medical schools **must** apply to the "CMG
stream" **and  are also very strongly encouraged** to apply to the
"Competitive Return of Service stream" (see below). The UBC orthopaedic
surgery residency program will be submitting the same rank list of CMGs to
both streams, hence CMG applicants will maximize their chances of matching to
this program by submitting their application to both streams.



**2\. A Competitive Return of Service stream.** This stream is open to
graduates of Canadian medical schools **and** eligible IMGs. There is one
position to be filled within this stream. **All** graduates of Canadian
medical schools **are  very strongly encouraged** to apply to the "Competitive
Return of Service stream". The UBC orthopaedic surgery residency program will
be submitting the same rank list of CMGs to both streams, hence CMG applicants
will maximize their chances of matching to this program by submitting their
application to both streams.



Note that residents completing the "Competitive Return of Service stream" are
eligible for the same opportunities for post-residency fellowship training as
those completing the "CMG stream".



Additional information about the "Competitive Return of Service stream" can be
found here: [Competitive
Stream](https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/health/practitioner-professional-
resources/physician-compensation/return-service-programs/competitive-stream-
program)

* * *

# Return of Service

The Competitive Stream is subject to a Return of Service (ROS). Successfully
matched applicants are required to sign a contract with the Ministry of Health
as a condition of accepting a medical residency position. Templates of the ROS
contract and allocation details can be reviewed on the MOH ROS website here:
[Competitive Stream (Medical Residency
Stream)](https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content?id=91E6BE5924ED4D80BB8FBB0094900CD5
"Competitive Stream \(Medical Residency Stream\)")

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG applicants:**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



**IMG applicants:**

IMG applicants need not provide evidence of English language testing if the
primary language of medical education or patient care was in English. If the
primary language of medical education or patient care was NOT in English then
applicants must fulfill the English language proficiency requirements by the
start of Ranking Period.



See CPSBC English Language Proficiency Requirements here for more information:
<https://www.cpsbc.ca/files/pdf/REG-ELP.pdf>

Examinations

Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

Not applicable for CMG applicants.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

Not applicable for CMG applicants.

Reference documents

Required

Orthopedic Surgery structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Within your personal letter, please address the following points:

\- What is motivating you to pursue a career in orthopaedic surgery?

\- What is it that draws you towards a residency in British Columbia and UBC
in particular?

\- What are your individual accomplishments, teamwork, and leadership
experiences that support your application for orthopaedic surgery residency?

\- Demonstrate your experience, or aptitude for, the learning and performance
of complex technical skills.

\- Describe experiences (if any) that demonstrate(s) values consistent with
the UBC Faculty of Medicine Values of Respect, Integrity, Compassion,
Collaboration and Equity.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:  

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than English or French, you are required
to have the [document translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Additional required IMG documents

IMG-BC Clinical Assessment Program

**IMG Applicants only** \- The UBC Clinical Assessment Program (CAP) letter is
provided to CaRMS by the UBC IMG Office.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Please see the "Selection Criteria" section.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 27, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: The program will provide confirmation of
offers for interview via CaRMS Online on or before Wednesday December 20 2023.  
  
All interviews will take place Monday, January 27 2024. Note that Universite
de Sherbrooke is also holding interviews on this date, and applicants to both
programs will be contacted in advance to coordinate their interview schedules.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All candidates are interviewed by six
teams, each composed of two faculty members and/or residents. Each interview
team will explore different themes including discussion of an applicant's
qualifications and aptitude for a career in orthopaedic surgery; experience
working in a team environment; medical ethics; experience with diversity or
lived experience; and problem solving.  
  
Each candidate should expect their interview with the six teams to take one
hour.  
  
  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Applicants are independently ranked by all members of the interview team, and
a final ranking is determined by the average rank score provided by all
interviewers. Each of the following criteria is considered during an
interviewer's evaluation of an applicant:

Academic Background

A strong academic background is expected of each applicant. Distinctions such
as high ranking in the class, scholarships and awards, and research
publications in peer-reviewed journals will be carefully considered.

Social Interaction

Successful candidates will have demonstrated an ability to work well with
people, as a leader and a collaborator. They have an obvious interest in areas
outside of medicine, as well as involvement in community activities. They have
shown effective leadership skills, and an ability to work and achieve results
in a team environment.

Commitment

An obvious interest and previous experience in orthopedics would be valuable,
such as elective clinical rotations and/or research involvement. Although it
is recognized that medical students are properly encouraged to develop well-
rounded experience in all fields of medicine, the successful candidate should
be able to demonstrate they have a clear understanding of what a career in
orthopaedic surgery entails.

References

Letters of reference from supervisors of clinical or research rotations, or
electives you have done, are weighted heavily in the selection process. We
encourage you to submit the required maximum of three (3) reference letters to
support your application.  



Interview

Strong interpersonal, communication, and organizational skills are important
in contemporary orthopaedic surgery practice. The candidate's interview
performance will be heavily rated based on their performance in these domains
during the interview.



## Program goals

The goals of our residency training program parallel those of our Department's
strategic plan and mission statement, as described here:

<https://orthopaedics.med.ubc.ca/about/strategic-plan-2023-2028/>

Residents in our program are expected to:

1\. demonstrate clinical and academic excellence

2\. demonstrate proficiency, safety, and efficiency in the performance of the
procedural skills necessary for the practice of orthopaedic surgery in a
community hospital setting

3\. exceptional interpersonal, communication, and teamwork skills in
recognition of the fact that high quality patient care and treatment outcomes
is the result of contributions from a large heath care team.

4. understand the principles and practice of clinical research, in order to actively participate in continued quality improvement initiatives and to continued medical education.

5. a sense of responsibility and dedication to the profession. Residents are expected to be active community members and demonstrate balance as evidenced by engagement in volunteer, extracurricular or other types of activities.

6\. Demonstrate values consistent with the UBC Faculty of Medicine Values of
Respect, Integrity, Compassion, Collaboration and Equity. We strive for
residents in our program to be representative of the diversity that exists
within the population of patients we serve.

For more information regarding the UBC Department of Orthopaedics commitment
to EDI see:

<https://orthopaedics.med.ubc.ca/about/readi/>

## Selection process goals

Identify applicants who:

1\. will develop into exceptional orthopaedic surgeons

2\. have demonstrated ability to interact appropriately with patients,
colleagues, and healthcare team members alike

3\. have demonstrated attributes highlighted in the CanMEDS 2015 roles

4\. have demonstrated ability and enthusiasm to learn and are able to adapt to
the various demands of residency training

5\. have a sincere interest to serve the citizens of British Columbia

6. demonstrate values consistent with the UBC Faculty of Medicine Values of Respect, Integrity, Compassion, Collaboration and Equity.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our file review team is composed of:  
  
1\. the program director  
  
2\. seven faculty members, chosen to represent a broad range of orthopaedic
subspecialties and hospital sites  
  
3\. five residents  
  

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Previous experience in both medical and non-medical work environments, experience working in a team environment, leadership experience, medical student elective experiences (all disciplines, but particularly surgical electives), research experience, publications and oral presentations.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Number of orthopaedic surgery electives and the type orthopaedic subspecialty, location (hospital site) of the elective, name of elective supervisor.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Not assessed.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Employment and volunteer experiences (both medical and non-medical) completed during and following senior years in high school.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Demonstrated ability to perform in a leadership role, in any type of team or group activity.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstrated interpersonal skills with patients and non-physician members of the health care team.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Your personal letter should be a maximum of one page in length. Within your personal letter, please address the following points: - What is motivating you to pursue a career in orthopaedic surgery? - What is it that draws you towards a residency in British Columbia and UBC in particular? - What are your individual accomplishments, teamwork, and leadership experiences that support your application for orthopaedic surgery residency? – what are your personal values (eg. Respect, Integrity etc), and how have you demonstrated your commitment to these in a professional setting?   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Evidence of positive interaction with colleagues and patients, interest and knowledge in orthopaedic surgery, aptitude for performance of technical skills.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Demonstrated record of research performance, in any medical or non-medical discipline.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Not assessed.   
Other file component(s) |  Evidence of exceptional achievement in academics aside from the medical school transcript.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: In order to be considered for an interview, it is
mandatory for an applicant to have completed at least one elective in
orthopaedic surgery during their final year in medical school. Most,
successful applicants will typically have completed at least two or three
electives in orthopaedic surgery.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Although all applicants are required to have completed a minimum of one
clinical elective in orthopaedic surgery during their final year of medical
school, note that most successful applicants will have completed an average of
two or three orthopaedic surgery electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high-quality patient care through working in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Behaviour, attitude, ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Written and verbal communication with patients, colleagues, and the broader community   
Health advocacy |  Understanding the role of orthopaedic surgeons in promoting population health.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated interest and ability in orthopaedic surgery, and aptitude for performing technical skills.   
Interest in the program |  Evidence of interest in completing a residency program in western Canada   
Leadership skills |  Ability to initiate programs, lead organizations or groups, and make an impact. Grit and motivation in the achievement of a goal.   
Professionalism |  Show a reputation for truth and honesty, provision of competent and compassionate patient care, exercise appropriate respect for other health care professionals, and maintain the patient's best interests. Candidates should be able to provide examples of their commitment to respect, integrity, compassion, collaboration and equity.   
Scholarly activities |  Evidence of accomplishment in advancing knowledge and understanding in any field of inquiry.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  Evidence of lack of insight for ethical medical practice.  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The 2024-2025 training program consists of 28 residents, over 40 faculty, 9
university-affiliated hospitals, more than 300 beds available for educational
purposes, as well as a variety of multidisciplinary conferences and clinics.
Hospital sites which contribute to the mandatory training rotations are listed
in the Resources section.

Each of the hospital sites within the training program has specific area(s) of
clinical expertise and research focus. Each orthopaedic surgery subspecialty
is taught during a clinical rotation at a hospital site specific to that
subspecialty.

Resident rotations are based on the educational requirement of each resident,
and not on the service requirements of the hospitals. Through their feedback,
and participation on the Residency Program Committee, residents have made and
continue to make a significant contribution towards improving the educational
quality of every rotation in the training program.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Overview**

The five year orthopaedic surgery residency program at UBC is based on the
RCPS competency based medical education (CBME) standard for the discipline of
orthopaedic surgery. All entrustable professional activities (EPAs) defined by
the RCPS for orthopaedic surgery have been mapped to specific subspecialty
rotations, to ensure residents are able to achieve competency in all EPAs by
the time they have completed their training.

The overall program is five years in length:

The **Transition to Discipline** and **Foundation of Discipline** stages of
training for both Surgical Foundations and Orthopaedic Surgery are completed
concurrently during the first two years of residency training.

The UBC Surgical Foundations program delivers a weekly academic half day, as
well as a 4-week "CRASH" course, providing teaching of all competencies of the
RCPS Surgical Foundations program.

Eight 4-week blocks of non-orthopaedic surgery teaching rotations are provided
- six in the first year, and two in the second year.All other clinical
experiences in the first two years are on orthopaedic surgery subspecialty
rotations.

The **Core of Discipline** and **Transition to Practice** stages of training
for orthopaedic surgery are completed during the final three years of
residency training. Our program provides clinical teaching experiences
dedicated to each of the subspecialties of orthopaedic surgery including MSK
oncology and general community orthopaedic surgery practice. Residents are
provided with increasing responsibility for management of patient care as they
progress through their training.

  
  

**PGY1**

\- 4 blocks orthopaedic trauma surgery (VGH)

\- 1 block general surgery trauma service (VGH)

\- 1 block vascular surgery (VGH)

\- 2 blocks plastic surgery (SPH)

\- 1 block perioperative medicine on the VGH hip fracture service (VGH)

\- 1 block Surgical Foundations "CRASH" course

\- 1 block Orthopaedic Surgery "Bootcamp" course

\- 1 block "junior" foot and ankle surgery (SPH)

\- 1 block "junior" upper extremity surgery (SPH)



The Surgical Foundations academic training program is administered by the
Department of General Surgery. The formal academic curriculum consists of
weekly academic half days in the first 18 months of training, and a PGY1 CRASH
course held in Block 3. Achievement of competency in the Surgical Foundations
EPAs is assessed at the completion of the CRASH course, and during the
orthopaedic trauma rotations. Residents are required to successfully complete
the Royal College Examination in Surgical Foundations in the fall of the PGY-2
year.



**PGY2**

\- 1 block ICU (VGH)

\- 2 blocks orthopaedic trauma surgery (VGH and RCH)

\- 3 blocks paediatric orthopaedic surgery (BCCH)

\- 2 blocks spine surgery (VGH)

\- 2 blocks arthroscopic surgery and orthopaedics sports medicine (UBCH,
Burnaby General, Richmond General, Eagle Ridge Hospital, Lions Gate Hospital)

\- 2 blocks hip and knee arthroplasty (VGH)

\- 1 block subspecialty elective (within greater Vancouver region)



**PGY-3**

\- 3 blocks hip and knee arthroplasty (VGH)

\- 2 blocks spine surgery (VGH)

\- 3 blocks arthroscopic surgery and orthopaedics sports medicine (UBCH,
Burnaby General, Richmond General, Eagle Ridge Hospital, Lions Gate Hospital)

- 3 blocks foot and ankle surgery (SPH)

\- 1 blocks hand surgery (Eagle Ridge and Royal Columbian Hospital)

\- 1 block community elective (choice of any site in British Columbia outside
the City of Vancouver)



**PGY4**

\- 2 blocks adult MSK oncology (VGH)

\- 2 blocks orthopaedic trauma (RCH)

\- 2 blocks general and community orthopaedic surgery (UHNBC)

\- 3 blocks paediatric orthopaedic surgery (BCCH)

\- 2 blocks hand and upper extremity surgery (SPH)

\- 2 blocks elective



**PGY4 Elective Rotation**  
  

PGY-4 residents are provided with 2 blocks of elective time. Residents can
choose one or more clinical or research electives at any location in Canada or
abroad.

**PGY5**

- 3 blocks orthopaedic trauma (VGH)

\- 3 three-block electives. These may be completed on any clinical service in
the residency program, pending approval by the program's Competence Committee
based on satisfactory completion of all EPAs at the Core of Discipline stage
of training.

- 1 block knowledge consolidation and review, and completion of the RCPS OSCE examination for orthopaedic surgery.



**The formal academic curriculum is provided by:**



  * in PGY1, a 4 week "orthopaedic surgery boot camp" consisting of lectures, case-based discussions, and surgical skills training on simulated bone models, cadavers, and simulations. PGY1 residents are not scheduled to provide any clinical service during these 4 weeks, with the exception of a couple of weekend on-call shifts.



  * in PGY1, a 4 week surgical foundations "CRASH" course consisting of lectures, case-based discussions, and surgical skills simulations. PGY1 residents are not scheduled to provide any clinical service during these 4 weeks, with the exception of a couple of weekend on-call shifts.



  * daily structured 45 minute teaching sessions at every hospital site, prior to the start of the work day.



  * a weekly "academic half day", covering all required knowledge in orthopaedic surgery as well as selected topics in the non-expert role CanMEDS domains, taught in a case-based format.  Teaching at academic half days is provided by residents and faculty, and a faculty member is assigned to supervise every session. Residents are excused from all clinical duties in order to attend the academic half day.



  * during weekly "academic half day" in the months of July and August, a cadaver dissection lab providing hands-on training in surgical anatomy



  * a fracture fixation advanced skills lab attended by all residents, held yearly



  * hands on skills labs in arthroscopic surgery on cadavers and simulated joints, as well as on high fidelity computer-based simulators



  * 3 all-day "visiting professor" teaching sessions provided by invited national and international faculty, in a broad range of subspecialties



  * mandatory courses provided external to the program, for which the program provided full tuition support. These courses include both AO Basic and Advanced Fracture Fixation skills courses, and the COA Basic Science Course.



  * the resident research program (see next section)

  
  

**Research Opportunities and Requirements**  
  

Participating in orthopedic research is an important part of surgical
training. Critical appraisal skills and an understanding of research are
required to evaluate rapidly changing treatment techniques.



Resident research in the UBC orthopaedic surgery training program is
facilitated and promoted in several ways.



  * A Director of resident research, who oversees each resident's progress toward completion of their research



  * A strong ongoing clinical research program within all Divisions of the UBC Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, which provides a broad range of available avenues for resident research. Many Divisions have a dedicated research coordinator as well as faculty with advanced training in clinical epidemiology, who are able to provide support and guidance to residents completing a research project within the respective Division



  * Residents may apply during their training for dedicated time to perform basic science or clinical research. The resident will be allowed, over the course of one or more of their scheduled 2-month clinical rotations, to dedicate half of their time each week towards completion of a research project.



  * Residents are required to present a research project at the annual UBC Orthopaedic Surgery Research Day in at least four of their five years in the program.



  * Residents planning a career in an academic centre may consider obtaining an advanced degree in a related field such as clinical epidemiology. If a resident wishes to complete this training prior to the completion of their residency, then
    * they will require approval from the Department Head and the Director of Postgraduate Education
    * they will need to lengthen their residency training in order to take time off for their chosen program of study - which will typically be not less than one year
    * since this time is not funded by UBC PGME, they can apply for one year of funding (currently in the amount of $20,000) from the program's Brett Kilb Memorial Fund.

  * Another opportunity for residents seeking to obtain advanced degree training, and an opportunity for dedicated research time with full salary support, is to apply to the UBC "Clinical Investigator Program".

**Assessment of Performance**

Multiple modalities are used to evaluate resident performance. Resident
performance, and progression through each stage of training, is reviewed in
detail at least two times per year by the program's Competence Committee.
Methods of assessment include:

  * summative written in-training evaluation reports, completed by the resident's rotation supervisor at the end of a rotation
  * formative written mid-block evaluation reports
  * achievement of RCPS EPAs required to progress from one stage of training to the next
  * a once-yearly written examination
  * twice-yearly OSCE
  * multisource feedback evaluation reports
  * completion of yearly research requirements 

* * *

# Training Sites

**Training Sites**



**Vancouver General Hospital**

  * general surgery trauma service, vascular surgery, plastic surgery, peri-operative medicine, intensive care
  * spine
  * hip and knee joint arthroplasty
  * musculoskeletal oncology
  * orthopaedic trauma



**UBC Hospital**

  * hip and knee joint arthroplasty



**BC Children's Hospital**

  * paediatric orthopaedics



**St Paul's Hospital**

  * foot and ankle surgery
  * hand and upper extremity surgery



**Royal Columbian Hospital**

  * orthopaedic trauma



**Eagle Ridge Hospital**

  * hand surgery



**University Hospital of Northern BC (Prince George)**

  * community orthopaedic surgical rotation



**Sites where clinical experiences in arthroscopic surgery of the shoulder,
hip, and knee are provided**

  * UBCH
  * Richmond General
  * Burnaby General
  * Eagle Ridge Hospital
  * Lions Gate Hospital



* * *

# Additional Information

Please refer to our FAQ list.

* * *

# FAQ

1\. Diversity in orthopaedic surgery.

The UBC Orthopaedic program values diversity and inclusion. From a gender
perspective, 50% of residents in the UBC orthopaedic surgery residency program
are women, and virtually all clinical rotations in our program have female
faculty preceptors, enhancing our program's ability to provide role modelling,
mentorship, and advocacy for women starting their career in orthopaedic
surgery.  We believe that different backgrounds, experiences, abilities and
perspectives enrich our program, which ultimately are reflected in our
residents, staff and faculty.



2\. Does your program have an organized mentorship program for residents?

PGY1 and PGY2 residents are encouraged (and assisted in) matching with one of
the PGY4 or PGY5 residents to obtain mentorship at the start of their
training. During the course of their training, most residents self-assign
themselves to one or more faculty mentors to obtain mentorship. Our faculty
members are all very approachable and welcome the opportunity to assist
trainees in achieving their goals throughout residency and beyond. By self-
assigning a faculty mentor, residents can obtain support and career advice
from faculty that closely match their own personality and aspirations.



3\. What are our graduates doing after completion of their residency training?

Residents complete at least one, sometimes two, one-year fellowship training
program in subspecialties of orthopaedic surgery. In recognition of the
clinical and academic accomplishments of our residents, and extensive working
relationships that exist between our faculty and faculty at other training
centres, we can advocate effectively on behalf our residents when applying for
these positions. Our graduates have had a high rate of success in obtaining a
position at highly sought-after fellowship programs in Canada, the US, and
abroad. After completion of their fellowship training, our residents have
ultimately always been successful in obtaining career positions in both
academic and community hospital not only in BC but elsewhere in Canada and the
US.



4\. Where do most residents live during their residency?

As everyone is aware, the cost of accommodation is higher in Vancouver than
most other cities in Canada. Nevertheless, most residents in our program are
able to obtain rental units in close proximity to Vancouver General Hospital
where the majority of clinical rotations take place. A strong network exists
amongst the residents to acquire accommodation, and we would encourage you to
contact the department if you require assistance in this matter.



5\. Rotations are provided at many different hospital sites. How do your
residents usually travel to these sites?

Since most residents live in neighbourhoods close to VGH, many will commute by
bicycle to the other two hospital sites that are relatively close by (SPH and
BCCH). Although most residents may choose to travel by car to Burnaby, RCH (in
New Westminster) and Richmond, public transit is a viable option for all three
sites. UBC PGME assists all residents with obtaining accommodation, and
reimburses travel expenses, for the community orthopaedics rotation in Prince
George.



6\. Do you have non-Canadian trainees in your residency program?

Non-Canadian trainees are supported by their home country to obtain residency
training in Canada. Our program selects, on average, one non-Canadian trainee
from Kuwait or Saudi Arabia each year.



7. What advanced training opportunities are provided by the UBC Department of Orthopaedic Surgery?

In general, all residency programs encourage their graduating residents to
broaden their experience by obtaining fellowship training at a centre
elsewhere within or outside of Canada. However all Divisions in our Department
provide fellowship training experiences that residents from our program can
certainly apply for. Many of the fellowship opportunities provided by our
department are very highly regarded both nationally and internationally -
particularly those in the subspecialties of spine, hip and knee arthroplasty,
foot and ankle surgery, and trauma.





* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27372?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27372