#  University of Manitoba - Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery - Winnipeg

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 24, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Darren Leitao  

Address Otolaryngology Program  
GB 421  
820 Sherbrook Street  
Winnipeg MB , Manitoba, R3A 1R9  

Work  (204) 787-3349

Fax

Websites of Interest [ University of Manitoba Otolaryngology
](http://umanitoba.ca/faculties/medicine/units/otolaryngology/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. N. Viallet

Title: Program Director

Phone: (204) 787-3349

  

Name: Ginny Clement

Title: Program Administrator

Email: ginny.clement@umanitoba.ca

Phone: 204-787-3349

  

* * *

# Important Information

The **Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation on June 26, 2025.**  **which
is MANDATORY** for all incoming residents.

**Applying competency-based practices to residency education**

Residents entering Otolaryngology – Head and Neck Surgery or Medical Oncology
programs in July 2017 and beyond will experience competency-based training. To
find out when other specialties and subspecialties are adopting CBD, please
view the [Phased Plan for CBD
Implementation](http://www.royalcollege.ca/portal/page/portal/rc/common/images/resources/cbd_phased_implementation_e.jpg)
and the [Proposed CBD Rollout
Schedule](http://www.royalcollege.ca/common/images/resources/cbd_proposed_rollout_schedule_e.jpg).

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/portal/page/portal/rc/resources/cbme/resources/videos_webinars),
aims to enhance patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong
learning with evolving patient needs and empowering learners to more fully
engage in their education process.

CBD will use time as a framework rather than the basis for progression. It is
not anticipated that the duration of training will change for the majority of
trainees. Residency programs will be broken down into
[stages](http://www.royalcollege.ca/portal/page/portal/rc/common/documents/resources/cbd_competence_continuum_diagram_legal_e.pdf),
and each stage will have a series of milestones based on required
competencies. These milestones will create more targeted learning outcomes and
involve more frequent, formative assessments within the clinical workplace to
ensure residents are developing and receiving feedback on the skills they
need.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and
traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification. Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs
will include the completion of a Royal College examination; however, residents
in CBD programs will also be assessed against program milestones throughout
their training. Within a CBD program, all milestones (documented within an
electronic portfolio) and the Royal College examination must be successfully
completed to achieve certification.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

****  
****

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

The University of Manitoba Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery residency is a
five-year program that is fully approved by the Royal College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Canada. There are a total of ten CaRMS positions in the
residency. One or two positions become available each year. The primary
objective of the residency is to provide trainees with the knowledge and
skills required to practice general otolaryngology and to gain access to
fellowship training in any of the otolaryngology subspecialties.

The residency program is fully in the Competency by Design format.  In the
first two years of training, it is anticipated that residents will complete
the Transition to Discipline and Foundations stages.  Concurrently, the
Surgical Foundations program will be completed under the supervision of the
Department of Surgery.

The final three years of training will encompass the Core stage and the
Transition to Practice.  This covers not only clinical aspects of practice,
both cognitive and technical, but also academic issues such as basic
experimental design. Instruction is done both on the job and as part of a
formal otolaryngology lecture series that runs throughout the academic year.

The Transition to Practice phase is intended to provide a seamless transition
to active clinical practice or to provide preparation for continued training
in a formal Fellowship.  Additional courses to enhance the residency training
include the Iowa Basic Head and Neck Anatomy course, the Sinus course and the
Michigan temporal bone course, amongst others.

You are required to fulfill ALL of the most current Provincial Criteria for
Canadian Medical Graduates for Manitoba

The criteria can be found at:  <https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required, written by staff with a knowledge of
your clinical and patient care skills, interpersonal and communication skills,
interests and abilities. All letters of reference are due to the CaRMS office
by the reference letter deadline.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Candidates should submit a personal letter indicating their interest in
otolaryngology, their reasons for selecting a career in otolaryngology and
should direct some attention to their interests outside of medicine.

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Ophthalmological Report

Optional - will be reviewed

Self-identification questionnaire

The University of Manitoba, Rady Faculty of Health Sciences promotes and
supports a community that embraces equity, diversity and inclusion, provides
for equality of opportunity and recognizes the dignity of all people. These
are key values to create an inclusive community for all. The University
encourages applications from Indigenous persons, persons with a disability,
racialized persons, women, persons of a minority sexual orientation and/or
gender identity, and all candidates who would contribute to the diversity of
our community.  
  
We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self-
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. We are in the data collection phase currently.  Candidates
are not required to submit the CaRMS Self-identification questionnaire, but
for those that do feel comfortable doing so, the information received would
only be used for program selection improvement in future years. It will not be
used for selection purposes this year. Any self-identification questionnaires
received will NOT be reviewed as part of our file review process or used as an
aid for file reviewers for the 2023 match.



* * *

#####  

* * *

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All applications are reviewed by the CaRMs selection committee. Multiple
reviewers review the applications and the choice of candidates for interview
is by consensus. Important criteria include the personal letter, references,
electives, rotation evaluations and the Dean's letter/medical student
performance report

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 30, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: All applications will be reviewed for
consideration of an interview.  All short-listed applicants will be contacted
by through CaRMS online and an email invitation.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The Program's CaRMS committee will
generate a shortlist of 20 to 24 applicants for our two (2) regular stream
residency positions.  Each applicant will have two 20 minute interviews with a
panel of three interviewers consisting of teaching staff and residents.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The Department of Otolaryngology at the University of Manitoba is committed to
a fair, equitable, and transparent application process. We maintain the right
to choose the applicants we feel are the best individuals for our residency
training program. The following criteria will be used as a baseline to
determine who will be considered for an interview. Not all applicants whose
files meet our minimum criteria will be offered interviews; only the top
candidates will be offered an interview.

General Considerations

\- An acceptable academic record

\- Maturity and responsibility

\- Strong interpersonal skills

\- An interest in otolaryngology. One elective in otolaryngology is mandatory

\- Good manual dexterity, hand-eye coordination, and binocular vision

\- Interest or experience in basic or clinical research is viewed positively.

## Program goals

Our program seeks to develop residents with strong clinical, communication and
collaboration skills to help them have a successful career. We encourage
scholarly activities through our research program. A variety of off-site
courses are funded to enhance clinical skills. An optional component allows
trainees to travel to indigenous communities to experience Northern Medicine.
We encourage team work, healthy lifestyles, work/life balance.

The University of Manitoba is committed to the social justice principles of
equity, access & participation and to promoting opportunities for systemically
marginalized groups who have been excluded from full participation at the
University and the larger community including Indigenous, Black, racially
marginalized Peoples, persons with disabilities and those who identify as
2SLGBTQIA+ (Two Spirit, lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, questioning, intersex,
asexual and other diverse sexual identities) and women.

## Selection process goals

An inclusive, open and diverse community is essential to excellence and
fosters voices that have been ignored or discouraged. To address the Rady
Faculty of Health Sciences commitment to equity, access and participation, and
in recognition of the underrepresentation of members of historically and
currently excluded groups, our program has taken the following proactive
measures as part of our selection process.

We strive for diverse perspectives and cultural safety throughout the hiring
process (resident selection committees, short-list of applicants, interviews).
We ask all applicants to include an EDIA statement in their personal letter
with evidence demonstrating their own commitment to EDIA in their work and
training thus far.

The selection process seeks to identify residents with a strong sense of team
work and history of academic performance.  All applicant files are reviewed by
the selection committee members and scored.  Scoring is based on a number of
factors including work experience, leadership, past academic performance,
research and scholarly activities.  In general 20 -24 applicants are offered
interviews.  Second pass / review of applicants falling below the interview
threshold occurs to review for possible bias in scoring.  All assessors have
had orientation to the scoring rubrics for both the file review process and
the interview process.  

Each applicant will be reviewed by two interview panels.  The interview scores
and application file score will be used to form a composite score to determine
the rank order list.  Our goal is to maintain a transparent, objective
process.  All selection committee members have had implicit bias training.
The members of the individual interview teams have been constructed to ensure
diveristy in the interview panel.  

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team consists of the Program Director,
CaRMS Director, senior residents and staff from both the academic program and
community practice sites. Several members of the team will review each
application and assign a score based on a template. The composite score is
used to determine the shortlist for interview selection. Applicants falling
below the threshold for interview have the files reviewed as a second pass by
senior members of the selection team to review for potential bias.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  
About 20 to 24 applicants per year or 10 - 12 applicants per residency
position.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Content including: research, electives, scholarly activity, publications   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Clinical evaluations (especially specialty specific or related specialties)   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Evidence of performance across all CanMEDs roles   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteer activity, team work, leadership   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Employment history, student groups, advocacy groups   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstrate interpersonal skills   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in specialty, city, program   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Interaction with colleagues, patients, etc.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in research, role played in projects   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic Performance   
Other file component(s) |  MCCQE Part 1  
IELTS (if required - IMG)  
  
Self-identification questionnaire  
We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self-
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. We are in the data collection phase currently. Candidates are
not required to submit the CaRMS Self-identification questionnaire, but for
those that do feel comfortable doing so, the information received would only
be used for program selection improvement in future years. It will not be used
for selection purposes this year. Any self-identification questionnaires
received will NOT be reviewed as part of our file review process or used as an
aid for file reviewers for the 2025 match.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We prefer applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  Two, separate, three person panel interviews per applicant are
conducted. Question sets have been standardized across all interview groups
and interviewers have been oriented to the scoring rubrics.  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Demonstrated ability to work with a team   
Collegiality |  Behavior, attitude interactions with and staff.   
Communication skills |  Ability to converse and write in English   
Health advocacy |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrate baseline knowledge related to specialty   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrate interest in the program   
Leadership skills |  Involvement in leadership roles   
Professionalism |  Correspondence, interaction with staff, patients and interviewers   
Scholarly activities |  Ability to discuss research, research principles   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  Electives: Performance during elective, as well as feedback from
allied health, staff, patients during elective periods.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Mission Statement**

Leadership in Otolaryngology – Head and Neck Surgery through exemplary
teaching, research, and clinical care.

**Our Clinical Care Mandate**

  * Provide Manitobans with compassionate, evidence based care and optimal clinical outcomes for health issues relating to general otolaryngology, neurotology, pediatric otolaryngology, rhinology, communicative disorders, sleep disordered breathing, facial plastic and reconstructive surgery, and head and neck oncology.
  * Play an active role in health care management and advocacy as they pertain to the specialty.
  * Ensure access to care for remote communities in Northern Manitoba and Nunavut through the Northern Medical Unit.

**Our Educational Mandate:**

  * Provide fundamental skills and a basic understanding of otolaryngology to undergraduates, in-depth training of postgraduates, tailored education for allied health care professionals, and an environment of continuing medical education in Otolaryngology – Head and Neck Surgery.
  * The Department will provide a safe, collegial, academically stimulating environment for staff and trainees. Educational goals will be accomplished within the framework of the College of Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Manitoba mission statement, and the accreditation standards of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

**Undergraduate Educational Objective:**

  * Provide fundamental knowledge and skills to medical students such that students are prepared to enter postgraduate training in the field of their choice with foundational knowledge of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, and to introduce Otolaryngology – Head and Neck Surgery as a potential career.

**Postgraduate Educational Objective:**

  * Provide residents with broadly based, in-depth training that will enable them to enter general Otolaryngologic practice, or enter advanced training in any of the Otolaryngologic subspecialties.

**Our Research Mandate:**

  * Conduct scientific work that improves outcomes for our patients, improves the educational process for our trainees, and improves the administration and delivery of health care.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Year 1 and Year 2 Transition to Discipline and Foundations

**Transition to Discipline** :

It is anticipated that this EPA (1) or stage would be completed in the first 1
to 3 on service rotations.

**Foundations:**

These building block EPAs are expected to be completed within the junior years
of the residency program.  



**Surgical Foundations:**

Surgical Foundations will run concurrently with the first 2 years of training.
Surgical foundations will be evaluated by a separate set of EPAs.



Year 3 - Year 5 - Core - Transition to Practice

**Core:**

The Core segment of training includes the bulk of the Entrustable Professional
Activities in preparation for the Specialty examinations.  This is anticipated
to be completed in the senior years of the program (years 3 to 5).

**Transition to Practice:**

This segment and the EPAs associated with it are designed to help transition a
resident into an independent practitioner in a graduated fashion.  This is
anticipated to include independent clinics, operative slates and a number of
activities associated with setting up or running an independent practice.



a) General Otolaryngology (SBGH)

Residents are exposed to general otolaryngology by attending the outpatient
clinics and operating rooms at St. Boniface General Hospital (SBGH).  Clinical
areas covered include: rhinology and functional endoscopic sinus surgery,
laryngology, general otology, and minor neck surgery. All SBGH consults are
the responsibility of the SBGH resident.

b) Head and Neck Surgery (HSC, SBGH, CCM)

Residents are exposed to head and neck oncology by attending clinics, head and
neck disciplinary conference and the operating room with our head and neck
surgeons. Clinics include three multidisciplinary clinics (major head and
neck) at CancerCare Manitoba (CCM), and two to thyroid/parathyroid clinics per
week. Clinical areas covered include: major head and neck surgery,
reconstruction with local, pedicle, and free flaps, skull base surgery, minor
head and neck surgery, endocrine surgery, and sleep apnea. Residents should
review pertinent head and neck anatomy on their cadavers while on this
rotation.

c) Otology/Neurotology (HSC, Victoria General Hospital)

Residents are exposed to otology and Neurotology by attending clinics and the
operating room with our otology staff. To enhance exposure to general otology,
residents also attend the operating room of one of the community hospitals
(Victoria General Hospital). Clinical areas covered include: tympanic membrane
and ossicular chain reconstruction, stapedectomy, mastoidectomy, and
management of vertigo. The Department of Otolaryngology has a Cochlear Implant
and Bone Anchored Hearing Aid (BAHA) surgery program.  Residents also have an
opportunity to spend time in the Audiology and Speech Language Services
Department and in our Vestibular Laboratory.  Temporal bone sessions are
provided throughout the year.  All HSC consultations are the responsibility of
the Consult Resident.

d) Pediatric Otolaryngology

Residents are exposed to general pediatric otolaryngology by attending
designated clinics. Otolaryngology operates every day in the Children's
Hospital and the residents are expected to attend when not in clinic. There
are four full-day teaching clinics per week.  As well, senior residents may
have the opportunity to attend pediatric surgery performed off-site.  Clinical
areas covered include tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy, pediatric otology, and
management of the otolaryngologic aspects of congenital syndromes.   Pediatric
airway and neck surgeries are learned both on this service and off service
while working on pediatric general surgery.  The Pediatric Program
participates in the Departments Cochlear Implant and Bone Anchored Hearing Aid
(BAHA) Surgery Program.  

 e) Laryngology

Residents are exposed to a more focused laryngology practice including a
variety of in office procedures such as vocal fold injections and operative
procedures related to the subspecialty.  In addition, residents are exposed to
a private practice setting and a longitudinal clinic exposure to better
prepare them for future practice.

f) Facial Plastics

Residents are exposed to a focused experience in the management of skin
malignancies including local flap design as well as the cosmetic aspects of
the subspecialty.  This includes opportunity to participate in procedures both
in the operating room and a private surgical facility.  Additional exposure to
allergy and dermatology is available in this rotation.

g) Community Otolaryngology

This is a new rotation for the 2024 academic year with the stated goal of
increasing senior resident exposure to a broader, more community based patient
population.  Residents are exposed to a general Otolarygology clinical
practice and associated operative exposures.  The intent is to enhance
exposure to common otologic procedures, endonasal procedures (septoplasty,
turbinoplasty, maxillary / ethmoid endoscopic sinus surgery), adenotonsillar
disease, etc.



Year 1



Transition to Discipline

Foundations



Year 2



Foundations



Year 3



Core:

Transition to Practice:



The Core segment of training includes the bulk of the Entrustable Professional
Activities in preparation for the Specialty examinations.  This is anticipated
to be completed in the senior years of the program (years 3 to 5).

Year 4

Core:

Transition to Practice:



The Core segment of training includes the bulk of the Entrustable Professional
Activities in preparation for the Specialty examinations.  This is anticipated
to be completed in the senior years of the program (years 3 to 5).



 Year 5



Core:

Transition to Practice:



The Core segment of training includes the bulk of the Entrustable Professional
Activities in preparation for the Specialty examinations.  This is anticipated
to be completed in the senior years of the program (years 3 to 5).

**Academic Activities**  
  

Grand Rounds

Held at HSC every first and third Wednesday of the month from 0730 to 0830
hours. Residents are expected to present one or two cases to the staff with a
brief review of the pertinent topics. All on-service residents are expected to
attend.  Several times each year, staff members and physicians from other
specialties are asked to present clinical advances or research related topics
at Grand Rounds.  

1\. Teaching Sessions

Monday afternoon academic half days (1230 to 1600 hours) are held from
September to June inclusive. These sessions are "protected time" for
residents. While in the PGY 1-2 years, residents must attend the "Core
Curriculum" and "Surgical Foundation" lecture series. The postgraduate office
and the Department of Surgery will distribute these schedules respectively.
The university has taken care not to schedule these lectures in conflict with
each other or the Wednesday morning sessions.

2\. Journal Club.

Attending staff host Journal Club on a monthly basis September through June.
Attendance is mandatory for all on-service residents. Off-service resident are
encouraged to participate, but attendance is optional. The chief resident and
hosting staff assigns a "theme" for Journal Club so that discussion is more
focused and relative to the staff person's area of expertise. Senior residents
are responsible for circulating, to all attendees, 2 articles relating to the
theme at least one week before Journal Club. The senior residents should
prepare a 15 minute summary and critique of each article. Junior residents may
be assigned to do a basic 15 minute review of pertinent topics to put the
articles in context. Another 15 minutes will generally be spent in a group
discussion. Articles do not have to be from the latest journal issues. In
fact, it is often useful to seek out and review landmark studies to better
understand the basis for current standard of care.

3\. Courses

Formal Temporal Bone and Endoscopic Sinus Courses are part of the training
program.

4\. Practice Examinations

In-house practice oral examinations are three to four times per year. These
exams are for on-service residents only. The primary function of these exams
is to give the residents practice in a situation that simulates the fellowship
oral examinations.  Practice written examinations are given to the residents
three to four times a year on various disciplines. As well, a national
practice written examination is set each year and administered to residents
(PGY 3 - 5) in March or April. The primary function of this exercise is to
give residents exposure to and practice writing a test that simulates the
fellowship exam.

5\. Research

In addition to the EPA specific to carrying out a research project, our
department research requirements are:

Residents are expected to present at four annual resident research days
(generally held in May) over the course of their residency. Ideally, residents
should aim to present during PGY 1, 2, 3 and 4 so that studying for the
fellowship exam is unhindered during PGY-5.  The department has a dedicated
Research Director who acts as a general advisor regarding resident research
presentations.  A visiting professor will adjudicate the Residents' Research
Day competition. Presentations are to be 10 minutes long and are followed by a
five-minute question period. A formal, rehearsed, PowerPoint presentation is
expected. The use of computer presentations is encouraged. Projects will be
graded on scientific merit, originality, and the quality of presentation. The
best project is awarded a book prize. Projects of appropriate quality are
presented at Canadian and international meetings.

  
  

Evaluation  
  

Each resident is formally evaluated in the competency by design framework.  

Residents are expected to meet with their academic coaches twice a year and
develop a strategy to ensure they progress through the stages of training in
an appropriate timeframe.  The primary metric of progress is measured by the
successful completion of stage appropriate EPAs.  Progress is tracked and
every resident's progress is reviewed at Competency Committee a minimum of
twice a year.  Additional information used to review progress includes,
teaching rounds,  In-training evaluation reports (ITERs), practice written and
oral examinations and the National In Training Examination (NITE).

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

**Training Sites**

Resources

\- Tertiary care facilities - Health Sciences Centre (HSC), St. Boniface
General Hospital (SBGH), and Children's Hospital

\- Community hospitals - Victoria General Hospital

\- Multidisciplinary oncologic care - CancerCare Manitoba (CCM)

\- Rural - Northern Medical Unit of The University of Manitoba services
communities of Northern Manitoba and Nunavut

Teaching staff includes nine full-time and eleven part-time members. There are
staff members with subspecialty training in head and neck surgery,
microvascular reconstruction, otology, neurotology, pediatric otolaryngology,
rhinology, and laryngology.

Departmental research is done primarily in the fields of neurotology,
pediatrics, and head and neck oncology. Studies are currently supported by
local and industrial grants. Residents are expected to present annually at the
Departmental Research Day. The better resident projects are submitted to
national and international meetings for presentation.

The department strives to keep itself and its residents abreast with a rapidly
changing field. Residents are granted one week of educational leave per year
and attendance at major meetings is encouraged. Staff members actively
participate on national and international academic committees. Visiting
Professors are invited to lecture in the department twice annually. As well,
residents and staff have unlimited computer and internet access.

There are opportunities for interprovincial and international electives

There are no mandatory rural rotations; however, there is opportunity to
attend northern communities, e.g.  Churchill, Norway House, Thompson, and
Health Centers in Nunavut.

Ratio of residents to faculty is 1:2

Average patient load is 5

Electronic medical resources are available to residents

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27049?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27049