#  McGill University - Cardiac Surgery - Montreal

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Regular Stream for All  

##  Last approved on September 05, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Emmanuel Moss  

Address Cardiac Surgery  
Glen Campus- Royal Victoria Hospital  
1001 Decarie Blvd, C05.2766  
Montreal , Quebec, H4A 3J1  

Work  514-398-3787

Fax  cardiacresidency.med@mcgill.ca

Websites of Interest [ McGill Cardiac Surgery
](https://www.mcgill.ca/cardiacsurgery)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Kathy Roussis

Title: Program Administrator

Email: cardiacresidency.med@mcgill.ca

Phone: 514-934-1934 x 37063

  

* * *

# Important Information

# Applying competency-based practices to residency education

Residents entering the Cardiac Surgery Residency Program in July 2019 and
beyond will experience competency based training.

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD),](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/competence-design-e) aims to enhance
patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving
patient needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education
process.

CBD uses [time as a
framework](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e)
rather than the basis for progression. It is not anticipated that the duration
of training will change for the majority of trainees. Residency programs will
be broken down into
[stages](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/documents/cbd/cbd-competence-
continuum-diagram-legal-e.pdf), and each stage will have a series of
milestones based on required competencies. These milestones will create more
targeted learning outcomes and involve more frequent, formative assessments
within the clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving
feedback on the skills they need.

The Royal College anticipates that all specialty and subspecialty programs in
Canada will adopt CBD in gradual phases. All disciplines have been divided
into seven cohort groups, each of which will [adopt CBD at different
times](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/cbd-implementation-e). It is
anticipated that national implementation of CBD within certain, individual
programs could begin as early as July 2017 – with more disciplines to
following in subsequent years.

The Cardiac Surgery program implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same
rigorous accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs
(and traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification. Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs
will include the completion of a Royal College examination; however, residents
in CBD programs will also be assessed against program milestones throughout
their training. Within a CBD program, all milestones (documented within an
electronic portfolio) and the Royal College examination must be successfully
completed to achieve certification.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP must be submitted with each application.  
EITHER:

  * A copy of Canadian Birth Certificate or a copy of Certificate of Canadian Citizenship

OR

  * A copy of Permanent Resident Card (copy of both sides of the card) OR a copy of an IMM 5292, IMM 1000, IMM 5688;   
NB: the Permanent Resident card can be expired.

OR

  * A copy of Citizenship Card (copy of both sides of the card)

P.S: the passport is not an acceptable proof of citizenship.

Each year, all candidates applying in a CaRMS match must provide proof of
valid current citizenship or permanent resident status. As of the 2021 R-1
match cycle, CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate
the citizenship/legal status verification, which is usually completed by
Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) offices.

if an applicant has had their citizenship/legal status documentation verified
by any of the following organizations for the current R-1 match, the applicant
will not be required to assign a proof of citizenship/PR document (as pictured
in the screenshot below).

  * Medical Council of Canada ([MCC](https://mcc.ca/))
  * British Columbia's Clinical Assessment Program ([BC-CAP](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/clinical-assessment/))
  * Bureau de cooperation interuniversitaire ([BCI](https://www.bci-qc.ca/en/))
  * Alberta International Medical Graduate Program ([AIMG](https://www.aimg.ca/))

For further information, please check the following link on CaRMS:
[https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-
citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-)

Examinations

Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the MCCQE Part I exam, please include the statement of
results and supplemental information report in your application.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the NAC exam, please include the statement of results and
supplemental information report in your application. The MCCQE Part II or
Certificate of Registration of the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada
(LMCC) is accepted in place of the NAC Examination.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required in which the relationship between the
referee and the candidate should be stated.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

The candidate should submit a short personal letter outlining any personal
history that may be appropriate and relevant to the application, state reasons
for choosing cardiac surgery as a career and future goals.

Optional - will be reviewed

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Additional required IMG documents

Lettre de reconnaissance de l'équivalence du diplôme MD

Please provide the results of the exams that permitted you to have your
medical degree recognized and approved by the CMQ.

Graduates with the diploma of doctor of osteopathy awarded by a school of
osteopathic medicine situated in the United States providing that the school
is accredited by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the
American Osteopathic Association do not have to obtain the recognition of the
equivalence of the medical diploma by the CMQ. These graduates do not require
the MCCQE Part I, the National Assessment Collaboration (NAC), or the
Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada (LMCC) in order to apply.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

An independent evaluation of your application will be done by the members of
the Residency Committee for selection  of candidates for interview. Following
the interview, all candidates are ranked according to an objective scoring
grid with an overall rank from collated scores of each reviewer.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 30, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will take place on JAnuary
30,2025.  When possibe, the dates are coordinated between the program
administrators throughout Canada.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will send email invitations directly to
applicants selected for an interview only.

Details regarding the interview process: The applications will be prescreened
and then contacted for interview. Arrangements will be made with shortlisted
candidates to meet with the members of the Residency Program Committee for
interviews.  When interviews are held in person, the candidates are be given
the opportunity to meet other members of the faculty, residents, and to tour
the clinical and research facilities.  
  
The interview process this year will be virtual.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

All applications are considered by the Residency Program Committee, which is
composed of the program director, faculty representatives from each teaching
site, and resident representatives elected by their peers. The candidates are
selected by this committee for personal interviews.

Followng the interviews, the Residency Program Committee will convene to rank
the candidates. The selection is based on the overall assessment of the
resident's application and interview, including his/her demonstrated or
potential ability, commitment and attitude to pursue a career in cardiac
surgery.

## Program goals

The overall goal of the McGill Cardiac Surgery residency training program is
to produce autonomous academic cardiac surgeons and provide them with the
tools needed to excel in the career that they desire. This is accomplished by
providing residents with both a rich and diverse clinical environment with
"hands-on" training, as well as providing opportunities for scholarly
advancement throughout the duration of the residency.

## Selection process goals

A successful applicant will have shown a strong commitment to an academic
career in cardiac surgery and a proven ability to work well within a team. The
applicant will have demonstrated that they possess the necessary skills to
succeed in a career in cardiac surgery, including strong leadership abilities,
excellent communication skills, a commitment to self-learning, as well as the
ability to remain calm in stressful situations.

## File review process

Review team composition : The application review team is composed of the
residency program committee. This includes the Program Director, at least 1
faculty representative from each primary teaching site, and 2 elected resident
representatives.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Will be considered   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Will be considered   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Will be considered   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Will be considered   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Will be considered   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Will be considered   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Will be considered   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Will be considered   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Will be considered   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We prefer, but do not require, applicants to have done
onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Will be considered   
Collegiality |  Will be considered   
Communication skills |  Will be considered   
Health advocacy |  Will be considered   
Interest in the discipline |  Will be considered   
Interest in the program |  Will be considered   
Leadership skills |  Will be considered   
Professionalism |  Will be considered   
Scholarly activities |  Will be considered   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  
---  
  |  Six year training program Exposure to all sub-specialties in cardiac surgery, including paediatrics, transplant, aortic surgery, and minimally invasive surgery One staff to two resident teaching ratio Academic Enrichment Year with access to McGill Masters in experimental Surgery program Two Visiting Professorships (Fraser Gurd and Stikeman Days) Access to state of the art McGill Steinberg center for simulation and interactive learning.  Track record of graduating residents obtaining fellowships at major North American centres (Stanford, Mayo Clinic, Arizona Heart, Northwestern, Toronto)  
  
* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 6 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Curriculum  
  

The residency program is designed to fulfill the new competency based medical
education requirements for cardiac surgery of the Royal College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Canada, and the College des medecins du Quebec. The program
extends over a six year period and includes a greater overall cardiac surgery
exposure than in the past:

The first two years are core surgical training to obtain basic surgical
knowledge and skills rotating through various disciplines. The two year
program is designed to prepare the residents for Part II of the MCCQE exams
and for the Principles of Surgery exam which is taken early in the PGY-2 year.
The rotations in core surgery are designed to prepare the resident to pursue
cardiac surgical training. They will include rotations through intensive care,
emergency medicine, related medical and surgical subspecialties as determined
by the Surgical Foundations Residency Program Committee and the Cardiac
Surgery Residency Program Committee of McGill University. Following core
surgery, the rotations will include senior resident level rotations in
thoracic and vascular surgery, exposure to Transcatheter aortic valve
replacement (TAVR), paediatric cardiac surgery, and cardiac surgery rotations
at both the Royal Victoria Hospital and Jewish General Hospital. There is also
opportunity for in-province and out of province electives.

Research  
  

One year is set aside for academic enrichment, which is usually in the PGY-3
year, and usually involves basic or clinical research in cardiac surgery. The
resident has the opportunity to register for a Master of Science degree in the
Division of Surgical Research by taking the required courses and submitting a
thesis. Special arrangements may be made to proceed to a Ph.D. degree for
those committed to an academic career.

  
  

Seminars  
  

Teaching sessions and conferences are held throughout the training period
which include teaching conferences for core surgery; weekly surgical grand
rounds; McGill University cardiac and thoracic surgical conferences;
residents' tutorial sessions; joint cardiology, respirology and oncology
conferences; research seminars; and teaching sessions associated with several
visiting professorships. There will be opportunities for residents to attend
national and international meetings. Residents are encouraged to present and
publish professional and scientific papers.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

There are two adult and one pediatric cardiac surgery units at McGill
University as follows:

-The Royal Victoria Hospital (Glen campus)

\- The Jewish General Hospital

-The Montreal Children's Hospital (Glen campus)

The residents may be exposed to affiliated disciplines during their rotations
at the Montreal General Hospital, St. Mary's Hospital and the Montreal Chest
Hospital, in addition to the three teaching hospitals listed above.

* * *

# FAQ

McGill University proudly welcomes an international cohort of residents into
its Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) each year. Residents gain valuable
experience serving a diverse, multicultural community in French and English.
In Quebec, residents are legally required to care for patients in French and
in English. Therefore, PGME provides residents with French language
acquisition tools and resources to help ensure each can care for Francophone
patients, as well as fully benefit from their training experience



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27087?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27087