#  McMaster University - Obstetrics and Gynecology - Hamilton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 27, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Sapna Sharma  

Address Obstetrics & Gynecology  
Department of Ob/Gyn, HSC 4D9  
1280 Main St. West  
Hamilton, Ontario, L8S 4K1  

Work  (905) 521-2100 ext. 76250

Fax  (905) 522-1463

Websites of Interest [ Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology Home Page
](https://obsgyn.mcmaster.ca/home)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Sapna Sharma

Title: Program Director

Phone: 905-521-2100 ext. 76250

  

General Information: Please email the general mailbox for all information

Name: Education Team

Title: General Mailbox

Email: pgobgyn@mcmaster.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/).  It is important to review the
requirements carefully.  Details include eligibility, Pre-Residency
orientation programs (PRP) and Assessment Verification Period (AVP).  All IMGs
need to have their documents verified through
[physiciansapply.ca](http://physiciansapply.ca/). This process can take
several months to complete. Individuals are advised to visit
[physiciansapply.ca](http://physiciansapply.ca/) at the point of application.

To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit:
<https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/>  

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

**Additional criteria for IMGs:**

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site.**

**CELPIP:  **must have minimum score of 9 in each of the four skills in the
same sitting

**IELTS ACADEMIC:  **must have minimum score of 7.0 in each of the four skills
in the same sitting

**Letter of language proficiency** is a letter from your Dean attesting that
your medical school program of instruction was completed solely in English or
French.

**OET MEDICINE** : must have minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in
the same sitting

**TOEFL IBT:  **must have minimum score of 93 with a minimum score of 24 on
the speaking section. The **TOEFL iBT Home Edition**  will be accepted as a
substitute for the TOEFL iBT.

Examinations

Required

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

**The National Assessment Collaboration (NAC) Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE)  is mandatory for all IMGs. **A pass result is required on the NAC OSCE**.  **The results are required by the file review opening date. For more information click on the following link [National Assessment Collaboration | Medical Council of Canada](http://mcc.ca/examinations/nac-overview/)

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

For the 2025 CaRMS match IMGs must have written and passed the Medical Council
of Canada Qualifying Examination Part 1(MCCQE1). Exam results must be provided
by the File Review Opening Date.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Please give some thought to your selection of referees. They should know you
well and be in a position to comment on your clinical skills, knowledge and
interpersonal skills. They should be able to compare your performance to the
expected standard for your level, or other students with whom they have
worked,  A reference letter from an Obstetrician/Gynecologist is not
mandatory.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

_[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]_

All applicant photos are masked until the National Review Period begins.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

A personal letter is required. Please provide a brief autobiographical sketch,
summarizing your personal background, achievements/interests and
characteristics you think would make you desirable as a candidate for our
program. In your letter, indicate why you wish to pursue a career in
Obstetrics & Gynecology, and why McMaster University and our Ob/Gyn program
appeals to you. Please limit to 1000 words/2 pages in length.

Custom Résumé / CV

Please include a personal CV.

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

Please order a copy of your undergraduate transcript from your University's
registrar office. Postgraduate degrees (e.g. Master's) will also be reviewed
if submitted.

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed. Documents that are
not in English must be accompanied by a notarized translation

Optional - will be reviewed

Self-identification questionnaire

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

  

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held virtually on Monday
January 20th and Tuesday January 21st, 2025. It will be in a multiple-mini
interview (MMI) format.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The program welcomes all CaRMS
applicants to the Obstetrics and Gynecology training program. All applicants
will be contacted regarding their status in the interview process. Candidates
will be offered interviews on the dates agreed upon by the members of APOG in
collaboration with CaRMS. All other questions or inquiries can be addressed
through the Education Team  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

  * A personal/autobiographical letter providing evidence of the candidate's commitment to Obstetrics and Gynecology and passion regarding women's issues in general. 
  * An academic record that demonstrates proficiency in those subjects related to the specialty. 
  * Three references should be obtained from specialists or family physicians. References should be able to attest to interest and proﬁciency in the specialty as well as comments on exemplary interpersonal skills. A Chief resident may serve as one referee. 
  * Candidates with an interest and proven experience in scholarly endeavors, educational initiatives, advocacy, and leadership positions, in addition to individuals with varied extracurricular pursuits are encouraged to apply. 
  * Candidates should have demonstrated maturity and excellence in communications and interpersonal skills. Reference letters from the institution/discipline will not be required for consideration of interview. 

## Program goals

The McMaster Obstetrics and Gynecology Residency Training Program's mission is
to provide ﬂexible, comprehensive clinical and surgical training in Obstetrics
and Gynecology in both academic and community settings so that our graduates
are prepared for the future they want. Our program is highly committed to
training residents in all Subscpecialties, and as such, we prioritize ongoing
exposure to these procedures through day-to-day clinical work, as well as in
dedicated workshops that occur throughout the year. Our program also has the
infrastructure to support residents in receiving practical experience in
designing and implementing a research project throughout the course of the
training program. Our program is structured to ensure that all graduates are
well-prepared for the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
examinations.

Graduates from our program are expected to be Obstetrician Gynecologists who
are prepared to improve the lives of patients and their families through
clinical and surgical excellence, scholarship, advocacy, and collaborative
care. Our graduates are leaders locally, nationally, and internationally

Our program values include promoting excellence in patient care and advocacy,
fostering, and supporting well-rounded trainees, enabling strong resident
voices, developing evidence-based curricular changes, maintaining a focus on
holistic wellness, nurturing interprofessional/interpersonal relationships,
and a commitment to lifelong learning and mentorship.

The Department of Ob/Gyn at McMaster is committed to fostering a collegial
culture grounded in diversity and inclusiveness.  We encourage applications
from all equity seeking groups including those who identify as Indigenous,
persons with disabilities, racialized persons, persons of minority sexual
orientation and/or gender identity, and all candidates who would contribute to
the diversity of our community.  Candidates are not required to submit the
CaRMS self-identification questionnaire, but for those that do feel
comfortable doing so, the information received will be used to advantage those
who would contribute to the diversity of our community.  Any self-
identification questionnaires received will be reviewed to serve as an aid in
selecting a diverse group of individuals for interviews and may also be used
to adjust final rankings at the discretion of the selection committee in order
to assist in addressing program diversity.  

## Selection process goals

We are seeking applicants who demonstrate an interest in the discipline of
Obstetrics and Gynecology in general, in addition to a speciﬁc interest in the
McMaster Obstetrics and Gynecology Residency training program. This interest
may be seen through electives (including those in Obstetrics and Gynecology,
in addition to other disciplines that relate to our specialty) that have
either been completed or are planned, participation in related scholarly work
(including but not limited to research, quality improvement, and educational
initiatives), as well as involvement in other extracurricular activities, such
membership in relevant clubs/societies. We anticipate successful applicants
would have favorable clinical evaluations, particularly in rotations related
to Obstetrics and Gynecology. Ideal applicants would have demonstrated
abilities in competencies that are essential in Obstetrics and Gynecology,
including, but not limited to, excellent leadership, advocacy, communication
and interpersonal skills. Additionally, proﬁciency in technical skills, a
strong sense of professionalism, and collegiality are also highly valued
assets in prospective trainees.

## File review process

Review team composition : Review team composition : The file review team
consists of residents and faculty members.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We evaluate content including academic accomplishments, scholarly work (including but not limited to research, education and quality improvement), involvement in activities that demonstrate leadership and advocacy, activities that demonstrate work- life balance, as well as prior employment (notable employment may occur concurrent with schooling, be public-facing, require multi-tasking, and/or other special skills)   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Clinical rotations, in particular in Obstetrics and Gynecology and related disciplines.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not review this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Personal interests, volunteering opportunities, advocacy and leadership activities   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Holds leadership position in student or community organizations   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Professionalism and interpersonal skills   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in program and location - please limit to 1000 words/2 pages in length   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Professionalism and interpersonal skills, demonstrated interest in Obstetrics and Gynecology   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Shows potential and interest in scholarly activity   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
Other file component(s) |  Feedback is solicited from faculty and residents on any medical students they know who are planning to apply to our program. The aim is to identify outstanding performance or concerning findings which may influence interview offers.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic may have impacted candidates'
opportunities to arrange and complete electives and would like to reassure you
that a lack of elective activity this year will not negatively impact your
application to our program.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evaluated   
Collegiality |  Evaluated   
Communication skills |  Evaluated   
Health advocacy |  Evaluated   
Interest in the discipline |  Evaluated   
Interest in the program |  Evaluated   
Leadership skills |  Evaluated   
Professionalism |  Evaluated   
Scholarly activities |  Evaluated   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

## **Curriculum**

The Obstetrics and Gynecology Residency Training Program's curriculum is
designed to graduate excellent quality Obstetrician/Gynecologists. It is
structured to ensure that all graduates are well prepared for the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada examinations.

The hospitals in Hamilton are coordinated in a series of regional programs
which concentrate specialized facilities at   certain hospitals and provide
mutual support for other specialized facilities which are needed at all
hospitals. The result is an impressive variety of clinical educational
experiences involving a wide range of faculty and facilities.

The Program is highly committed to resident training in Minimal Access Surgery
and as such provides ongoing operating room experience in these procedures.
The program runs four Resident Laparoscopy Workshops each year, held jointly
at the St. Joseph's Hospital Center for Minimal Access Surgery and at the
Hamilton Health Sciences Animal Lab.

The 2023 cohort of PGY1s will follow the Competency Based Medical Education
(CBME) approach to evaluations and learning. CBME is an outcomes-based
approach that involves identifying the abilities required of physicians and
then designing the curriculum to support the achievement and assessment of
these predeﬁned competencies. You can ﬁnd additional details at the following
website: h[ ttps://cbmepg.mcmaster.ca/](https://cbmepg.mcmaster.ca/)



## PGY-1 Year

This year is intended to provide the ﬁrst year resident with solidiﬁcation of
clinical skills, covering a broad range of clinical areas. The year is divided
into the following rotations:

  1. Three four-week blocks in Obstetrics & Gynecology; 
  2. two four-week blocks, in each of Internal Medicine (CTU and Obstetrical Medicine), ICU, and General Surgery; 
  3. one four-week block each at Ambulatory/Women's Health Concerns Clinics, Anesthesia, Pediatrics (Pediatric Surgery and NICU) and Emergency Medicine. 

The ﬁrst year format improves the resident's basic clinical skills and is a
good way to prepare for the Surgical Foundations Exam, and the variety of
complex patients that will be encountered throughout residency and beyond. The
Academic Half Days will be completed with the Surgical foundations (CORE)
program. This provides a solid introduction to the basics of surgery and a
great introduction to the research aspect of the program. These academic
sessions are held on Wednesday mornings. The PGY-1's will also attend some
Obstetrics and Gynecology speciﬁc academic sessions integrated throughout the
year.

## PGY-2 Year

The PGY-2 year is designed to provide core training in Obstetrics and
Gynecology. The resident will spend 11 blocks in core Obstetrics and
Gynecology divided between McMaster University Medical Center, St. Joseph's
Hospital, and either Kitchener-Waterloo or St. Catherines for community
exposure. This experience will provide an introduction to a wide     range of
obstetrical and gynecologic problems including care in the ambulatory setting.
PGY2 also consists of two blocks      of a junior gynecologic oncology
rotation. By the end of that year, the resident will be fully capable of
uncomplicated   vaginal deliveries, Cesarean sections and uncomplicated
gynecologic surgery. A large volume of clinical material provides ample
training for all residents.

## PGY-3/PGY-4 Year's

These two years have six subspecialty rotations within them including a
rotation in Ultrasound and Prenatal Diagnosis.

## Maternal Fetal Medicine: 3 Four Week Blocks

Nine full-time perinatologists oversee the McMaster University Medical Centre
tertiary level referral centre for Hamilton, the Niagara Peninsula, and the
Central West Ontario Perinatal region. This catchment area encompasses a
population of some 2 million people. As a result, the variety and volume of
Maternal Fetal Medicine patients is excellent. During this rotation, residents
focus on managing high-risk pregnancies in Labour and Delivery as well as the
outpatient Maternal Fetal Medicine Clinics.

## Reproductive Endocrinology/Infertility: Three 4-Week Blocks

There are four full-time REI subspecialist faculty. The rotation provides the
resident with experience in the assessment    and management of women with
infertility and female endocrine problems. The resident will have an
opportunity to participate in ART's including controlled ovarian
hyperstimulation and intrauterine insemination, in vitro fertilization (IVF),
and intra cytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).

The Program is pleased to also be able to oﬀer residents clinical exposure in
clinics dedicated to menopause and pediatric gynecology.



## Gynecologic Oncology: 3 Four Week Blocks

This rotation is based at Juravinski Hospital, which is home to the Hamilton
Regional Cancer Centre. There are ﬁve full- time gynecologic oncologists on
staﬀ. Hamilton boasts one of the busiest gynecologic oncology services in the
country. Exposure to chemotherapy and radiation oncology is included in this
experience. This is a very active Gynecologic Oncology surgical service. It is
considered one of the strongest surgical rotations in the residency. In order
to maximize the experience on this service, residents are not on the
obstetrics on-call schedule and instead provide home on-call coverage for the
Gynecologic Oncology service during the rotation.

## Urogynecology: 3 Four Week Blocks

Currently, there are two faculty members who specialize in urogynecology. As a
result, there is a large volume of urodynamic assessments and urogynecology
surgery. This again is considered to be a very strong surgical rotation.
Advanced skills, such as mid-urethral slings, are acquired during this
rotation

## Colposcopy: 2-3 Four Week Blocks

A rotation consisting of a coordination of both Colposcopy and Pathology is
part of the core program. Residents encounter a high volume of new and follow-
up patients and can achieve certiﬁcation in colposcopy during this rotation.

## **Laparoscopy: 1 or 2 - Four Week Blocks  **

The program utilizes simulation in training, including hands on laparoscopy
and hysteroscopy sessions, which are held jointly. It is mandatory to complete
1 block of this rotation, and residents are given the option of completing an
additional block or taking an elective.

**Senior Gynecology Ambulatory Block: 1 Four Week Block**

This ambulatory experience provides senior residents with the opportunity to
enhance their expertise in the management of generalist gynecology patients,
as well as patients from all subspecialties in the ambulatory setting.

## Elective: 6-9 Four Week Blocks

There are presently 6-9 four-week blocks of elective available to the
residents. This provides residents opportunities to pursue speciﬁc interests
they may have. Many residents choose to do three four-week block community-
based elective. This has been rated a very strong educational experience.
Hamilton is unique in that it is close to a number of excellent venues for a
community-based elective.

## PGY-5 Year

The ﬁnal year of training is primarily devoted to being a Chief Resident. This
experience includes opportunities to manage one's own patients under
supervision in the clinic, ward and O.R. setting. Further reﬁnement of
clinical skills is achieved during this time. Most residents choose to devote
a good portion of time in this year to surgery. A Senior Gyne rotation in the
Kitchener-Waterloo region has recently been created to help enhance their
gynecologic surgical skills. The Chief Resident functions as a junior
consultant to other services in the hospitals. This role has been a valuable
one. The Chief Resident is expected to oversee administrative and teaching
responsibilities to junior house staﬀ and clerks and, as such, functions as an
educational, clinical and administrative "Chief of Service."

The PGY5's will still have some clinical responsibilities but will also have
protected time to prepare for the Royal College exams for the written in Fall
and the applied exam in the Spring. This obviously reduces the level of stress
during this important time.

## Research

McMaster has a strong tradition of excellent research, world class research
facilities, and a highly regarded faculty. Special areas of research strength
include basic sciences, population health, health care delivery, international
health and DME (design, measurement and evaluation). The Obstetrics and
Gynecology Program hosts an annual research day, the R.T. Weaver Annual
Scientific Day. In this forum residents present the results of their research.
A distinguished member of the teaching faculty from another University center
participates both as a guest speaker and research presentation judge.

CaRMS applicants with a strong interest in research are strongly encouraged to
apply to our Program. The Residency Program has a high level of commitment to
both solo resident research and to resident /faculty research collaborations.

One research project is required of each resident during their residency.
Also, residents all participate in one Quality Improvement initiative during
training.  There is formal QI training during Surgical Foundations.  

The residents will take the research presented at the R.T. Weaver Annual
Scientific Day on to publication in peer-reviewed journals. Presentation of
results at the national level is strongly encouraged and financially supported
by the Program.

Protected time for research is provided for residents embarking on research
requiring a substantial time commitment.

Research projects vary widely from traditional laboratory bench research to
literature reviews, meta-analyses, randomized clinical trials and chart
reviews.

## Resident Protected Time - Events

The Program provides a rich academic oﬀering. All residents attend the weekly
Academic Half Day (AHD). In addition to basic sessions on a broad range of
Obstetric and Gynecologic topics, the Academic Half Day includes formal
teaching in research related topics, Basic Surgical Skills and Simulation. The
residents also actively participate in four journal clubs per year. At these
more casual get-togethers residents present their critical appraisal of
published journal articles. We also organize four practice OSCE's per year for
all the residents.  

**SOGC EXAM**

Every year, all residents PGY1-PGY5 have the opportunity to write the SOGC
annual practice exam.

**PPI**

Three times per year, all residents complete PPI testing (personal progress
inventory MCQ exam).

* * *

# Training Sites

#### **Resources**

McMaster University Postgraduate Programs are integrated in cooperation with
all the aﬃliated Hamilton and area teaching hospitals. Facilities used for
core rotations in Obstetrics and Gynecology include Hamilton Health Sciences
Corporation (McMaster), St. Joseph's Hospital, the Brant Community Healthcare
System - Brantford General Hospital site, St. Catherine's General Hospital,
Humber River Hospital, and the Grand River Hospital in Waterloo region.

McMaster Medical School was considered one of the six most innovative schools
in North America, by Newsweek Magazine (and the only Canadian School to
achieve this recognition). Similarly, the McMaster University Obstetrics and
Gynecology Training Program has a number of notable strengths. There is more
than ample clinical volume for the   number of residents who are enrolled. The
relatively small size allows for a collegial atmosphere. Residents have rated
faculty support to be excellent, and interest in teaching both for part time
and full-time clinical faculty is also consistently rated highly. Other
strengths include the exceptional training in Minimal Access Surgery and ample
elective time. There is   a consistently high success rate on the Royal
College Fellowship exam.

* * *

# Additional Information

**Why Hamilton?**

Hamilton is a diverse, vibrant community located in the middle of the Golden
Horseshoe, with a population of over 500,000. Toronto is a 40-minute drive and
is easily accessible by road or rapid transit. Buﬀalo is one hour away. There
is    an international airport in Hamilton (20 minutes away), and Toronto
International Airport (45 minutes away) and Buﬀalo Airport (95 minutes away).
There is a vibrant arts community in the city with Hamilton Place being a
world-class venue for musical productions. Copps Coliseum provides a top-class
arena for sporting and concert events. The downtown area has a bustling
culinary scene, with something delicious for everyone’s tastes!

Hamilton has one of the lowest costs of living for a metropolitan area in
Canada. Vacancy rates for accommodation are reasonable. Public transportation
is readily accessible, and travel within the city is very easy. With core
rotations outside of the city, it is desirable for all residents to have a
vehicle.

Hamilton oﬀers many natural and man-made diversions for the resident in
training. The beauty of the escarpment alone compels attention as it changes
its expression to greet each successive season. The City of Hamilton is a rare
marriage of topography and human settlement, one of a handful of urban centers
in North America that are tiered and encircle a bay    of signiﬁcant size to
serve as an international port. It is the area's unique natural architecture
that has contributed in great measure to the formation of a distinct regional
character and heritage.

Bayfront Park and Pier 4, acres of former industrial landﬁll restored to a
green area, are alive with walkers, runners, roller-bladers and kids playing
on the landlocked tugboat, the twisting, turning tubes and slides, or running
through the water toys (we doubt that our more mature residents will
participate in these attractions, but their little ones might!). The 1,500
kilometers of trails in the vicinity invite hikers, bikers and window-shopping
naturalists to explore the verdure of Hamilton 's forests and botanical
exhibits. In fact, the Dundas Regional Conservation Area is virtually in the
backyard of McMaster University. This provides hundreds of miles of hiking and
biking trails and is attached to the Bruce Trail (please don't get   the
impression that the entire ﬁve years in Hamilton is spent on recreational
pursuits). The world-famous Royal Botanical Gardens are a 10-minute drive
away. Many summer festivals are held involving local music and art talent. The
more    sedate can tread manicured fairways of more than two-dozen golf
courses or tour the charming settings of six communities for the many
curiosities, antiques and heritage sites.  

Fall is a cool blaze of burnt oranges, reds and yellows, country fairs and
pumpkin carving.

Winter introduces a fresh set of delights. The trails are given over, not just
to hikers, but also to the swoosh of cross- country skiers. Downtown, the city
streets and Gore Park are dressed for Christmas, in the manner extolled by
Charles Dickens - there are carolers, and yes even tiny reindeer. Dundurn
Castle and the venerable Whitehern Historic Home & Garden near Hamilton City
Hall are decked with holly and primed for special Christmas tours.

* * *

# FAQ

### How are on call shifts structured? How do post-call days work?

Our on-call system consists of a day shift from 7:30-17:00 and a night shift
from 17:00-7:30. On weekends, handover occurs at 8:00 instead.

In PGY1, call shifts are structured diﬀerently by each of the individual
services you will be rotating with. When on   Obstetrics & Gynecology
rotations, weekday shifts are 24 hours. On weekends, our call shifts are
typically split into both day and night shifts with residents typically
working a combination of shifts (e.g., Saturday day shift & Sunday night
shift), though occasional 24 hour shifts may be scheduled.

Leading up to a call shift on a weekday, you will work a regular day on your
scheduled rotation. When your call is complete, you will be post-call and not
be expected to attend any academic or clinical activities the following day.

Some rotations, like Gynecologic Oncology, are scheduled with home call
instead of in-house call shifts. Whether or not you are post call following a
home call shift depends on the work completed on call per the PARO guidelines.

### ​Is call graduated across the years of residency?

Call is graduated across the 5 years of residency. Maximum call shifts are
based on PARO guidelines:

  * **PGY1** : 7 shifts/block
  * PGY2: 7 shifts/block
  * PGY3: 6-7 shift/block
  * PGY4: 4-6 shifts/block
  * PGY5: 4 shifts/block
  * Chief Resident: 2 shifts/block 

### ​What hospitals do we rotate at? Is there funding available for rotations
outside of Hamilton?

Within the city of Hamilton, we rotate at 3 of the 4 hospitals: St Joseph’s
Healthcare Hamilton, McMaster University Medical Centre, and the Juravinski
Hospital. In the surrounding communities, we have core and selective rotations
at Brantford General Hospital, Oakville Hospital, Joseph Brant Hospital, Grand
River Hospital, Guelph General Hospital, Niagara Health Services – St
Catharine’s, and Humber River Hospital.

Funding for certain rotations meeting eligibility criteria (including length
of rotation and distance from Hamilton) are eligible for funding through the
Mac-CARE program. This includes the option for either travel funding or ﬁnding
accommodations in the community local to the hospital.

### ​Will I need a car?

While it isn’t formally required, a car is almost essential given the
rotations we do in and around Hamilton, as well as the potential to have
multiple clinical activities during a workday.

### ​What does a typical day look like?

This depends on the rotation you are on, especially when oﬀ service in PGY1.
When on Obstetrics & Gynecology rotations, handover is at 7:30 on weekdays and
8:00 on weekends. Teams (e.g., those following inpatients under obstetrics,
gynecology, maternal fetal medicine, etc.) may agree to meet prior to handover
to see their patients.

If on labour and delivery, the team will then divide up the work for the day
(e.g., inductions, labouring patients, cesarean sections) and see the
postpartum patients. The teams in the OR start their cases at 7:45 and are
scheduled until 15:30\. There are several clinics to attend both in the
hospital and oﬀ site whose hours vary depending on the day.

### ​What time off do residents get?

Per PARO, residents are entitled to 20 days of vacation and 7 professional
leave days. There is also 1 additional “ﬂoating” holiday available to take oﬀ.

For the following holidays, we follow a weekend call schedule and residents
are oﬀ unless scheduled to work a call shift. If working a call shift,
residents are entitled to a lieu day taken within 90 days of the holiday
worked.

Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Family Day Good Friday
Victoria Day

Over the Christmas break, residents will work either 5 days over Christmas or
5 days over New Year’s. This schedule is determined on an annual basis.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26344?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26344