#  University of Toronto - Plastic Surgery - Toronto

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Kyle Wanzel  

Address Dr. Kyle Wanzel - Program Director  
149 College Street, Suite 508  
Toronto, Ontario, M5T 1P5  

Work  (416) 978-8534

Websites of Interest [ Division of Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery UofT
](http://www.uoftplasticsurgery.ca)  
[ PGME at U of T ](http://www.pgme.utoronto.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Kathy Pavlovic

Title: Program Administrator

Email: plastics.admin@utoronto.ca

Phone: 416-978-8534

  

Name: Dr. Kyle Wanzel

Title: Program Director

Email: prsprogramdirector@utoronto.ca

Phone: 416-978-8534

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion**  
All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of the
University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

  
**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)  
** The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.  
  
_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Minimum of 3 reference letters are required (there is no maximum number of
references).    If possible one or more letters from a faculty member in
Plastic Surgery is helpful but not required.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

A personal statement is required, describing your interests and enlarging on
background and future goals.

Maximum word count: 1000 (no minimum)  
  
_Important Note: Please address any gaps in training or remediation periods in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count._

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical School Transcript

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Evaluation of medical students are collected throughout the academic year from
multi-disciplinary staff members and submitted to the Residency Selection
Committee for review during the CaRMS application shortlist process. These
evaluations are scored from 1-5 on plastic surgery knowledge, professionalism,
technical skills, independence, initiative, communication, collaboration as
well as constructive feedback. While scores are not part of the official CaRMS
scoring rubric, the feedback is discussed amongst the selection committee and
taken into consideration for each candidate.

Our Residency Program Committee (RPC) evaluates all applications to our
Program.  The RPC is comprised of the Program Director, Division Chair, site
chiefs for each of our 12 training sites, as well as our Research Director,
Undergraduate Education Coordinator, Resident Wellness Director, Junior and
Senior Resident Curriculum Coordinators  both a Junior and Senior Resident Rep
as well as the Program Administrator.  The Program Director and Chair read and
evaluate all applicants by each component:  academic achievement, leadership,
quality of reference letters and research productivity.  Each of the other RPC
members is given a specific component to score for each applicant.  On
average, each candidate receives 5 scores on each of the criteria listed which
is then combined for an average score.  These scores are then further combined
to generate an overall application score which eventually then becomes an
overall rank.  We hold an RPC meeting to review each application and generate
our interview list of candidates.  By consensus, the final application ranks
(based on our scoring system) may be slightly different  from those who are
offered an interview.  After the interview list is generated, an applicant's
score is then separated from the interview score (which is given at the time
of the interview by all RPC members).  These two scores are then combined and
a final overall rank order is created.  

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 23, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interview Date:  interviews will take place
in a **virtual format on Thursday January 23, 2025**. (_**there will be a
virtual Social held on Wednesday, January 22, 2025 at 6:00 pm**_)  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The interview process will be a
virutal format with the candidate and faculty members.   Our intention is to
use the interview to have a chance to  understand your goals and career
aspirations as well as to have an opportunity to get to know you better.  
  
We will hold a CARMS virtual social on the evening of Wednesday, January 22,
2025 at 6:00 pm.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

All applicants who apply to the University of Toronto Division of Plastic
Surgery Training Program are considered by the selection committee. The
Residency Program Committee is comprised of a total of 18 members (previously
detailed earlier on).  Each member of the RPC is involved in both the review
of the candidate applications as well as the interivews.  All reviewers have
reviewed all candidate applications and were involved in interviewing every
candidate.    Each member of the RPC receives training on what is expected of
them throughout the selection and interview process, what questions are and
are not allowed and what the program is looking for.  . Candidates who aspire
to an academic plastic surgical practice are particularly encouraged in this
program.

Applicants providing evidence of excellence in academic achievement,
leadership, quality of reference letters and research productivity in the
CaRMS application file will be selected for interview.  At the time of
interviews, successful applicants must also be able to demonstrate a thorough
understanding of the important values captured by the CanMEDS role descriptors
and be able to further discuss their credentials and attributes in a
conversionary setting.  If interviewed, a score is generated and will be
considered 20% of the entire application package.  A final rank order is then
generated and a group discussion which involves all committee members will
ensue, whereby the selection committee reserves the right to adjust the final
rankings by consensus to address issues of program priority and diversity.

  
A "do not rank' status may be invoked by consensus only, based upon
information attained from the application, the reference letters or what was
deemed inappropriate conduct or responses during the interview.

## Program goals

Our ideal candidate will have a superior academic record.  They will have
demonstrated responsibility, conscientiousness, a capacity for hard work,
resilience and initiative.  They will have demonstrated an interest in and -
as far as can be determined at this level of training - an aptitude for
Plastic Surgery.  They will show maturity and have no difficulties with
interpersonal relationships.  They will also demonstrate the potential to
pursue productive research.

## Selection process goals

Our goal is to attract the best and brightest applicants to interview at our
institution.  We aim to continue our strong academic presence in the country
and this starts by selecting new residents that we feel will be future leaders
in the Plastic Surgery community.  Applicants providing evidence of excellence
in academic achievement, leadership, quality of refrence letters and research
productivity in the CaRMS application file will be selected for interview.



## File review process

Review team composition : All applicants who apply to the University of
Toronto Division of Plastic Surgery Training Program are considered by the
selection committee. The Residency Program Committee is comprised of a total
of 18 members (previously detailed earlier on).

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  
There is a fair and equitable interview time allotted to each candidate
selected for interview. We are given 4 CMG spots to fill each year.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Reviewed by five independent assessors   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted candidates’ opportunities to arrange and complete electives and would like to reassure you that a lack of elective activity this year will not negatively impact your application to our program.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Leadership experience and activities involving manual dexterity   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Prior experience preferred   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Reviewed by five independent assessors   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Should document dedication to the specialty as well as specific interest in the U of T program   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Reviewed by five independent assessors   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Reviewed by five independent assessors   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Demonstration of high academic achievement i.e. awards and scholarships   
Other file component(s) |  Each member of the RPC is involved in both the review of the candidate applications as well as the interviews. All reviewers have reviewed all candidate applications and were involved in interviewing every candidate. Each member of the RPC receives training on what is expected of them throughout the selection and interview process, what questions are and are not allowed and what the program is looking for. Candidates who aspire to an academic plastic surgical practice are particularly encouraged in this program.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

 Candidates who aspire to an academic plastic surgical practice are
particularly encouraged in this program.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  virtual panel style interviews will be conducted.  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Applicants must be good collaborators   
Collegiality |  Applicants should be perceived to be collegial   
Communication skills |  Applicants must demonstrate high level of communication in both written and oral communications   
Health advocacy |  Applicants must be able to demonstrate how they have been health advocates   
Interest in the discipline |  Candidates who are not interested in Plastic Surgery will not be considered   
Interest in the program |  Candidates must demonstrate an interest in our program   
Leadership skills |  Be prepared to discuss leadership experiences   
Professionalism |  Dedication, responsibility, commitment, collegiality, insight   
Scholarly activities |  Previous scholarly activity preferred and will be evaluated   
Other interview component(s) |  Applicants providing evidence of excellence in academic achievement, leadership, quality of reference letters and research productivity in the CaRMS application file will be selected for interview. At the time of interviews, successful applicants must also be able to demonstrate a thorough understanding of the important values captured by the CanMEDS role descriptors and be able to further discuss their credentials and attributes in a conversionary setting.   
  
Standardized questions will be asked of all candidates.  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  If interviewed, a score is generated and will be considered 20% of
the entire application package. A final rank order is then generated and a
group discussion which involves all committee members will ensue, whereby the
selection committee reserves the right to adjust the final rankings by
consensus to address issues of program priority and diversity.  
  
A "do not rank' status may be invoked by consensus only, based upon
information attained from the application, the reference letters or what was
deemed inappropriate conduct or responses during the interview  
  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights



Plastic Surgery School  
---  
  |  Plastic Surgery School is a weekly academic session for all senior residents. During this time, residents receive a focussed seminar teaching curriculum, surgical skills technical sessions, ethics seminars, education in research and teaching in areas such as communication, managing careers and time, health advocacy and functioning in a collaborative environment. Junior residents are welcome to attend some of these sessions.  The teaching curriculum also includes morbidity and mortality rounds, professors rounds and regular journal clubs intended  for all residents.  
  
## Symposia/Conferences

Rounds:  University, Professors, M&M

Journal Clubs

Division of Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery Research Day

Hoyle Campbell Visiting Professorship

UofT GTA Lectureship

Gallie Day

Courses:  ATLS, Surgical Skills Micro Course, Hospital for Sick Children Cleft
Lip Palate Course

Plastic Surgery School:  Surgical Skills, Ethics, Seminars, CanMeDS workshops,
Resident Wellness sessions

Aesthetic Plastic Surgery Symposium

Senior Resident Aesthetic Visiting Professor

Toronto Breast Surgery Symposium

BRA Day

Hand & Upper Extremity Symposium

ASPS Senior Residents Conference

Ralph T. Manktelow Hand Symposium

Canadian Burn Symposium

Microvascular Course and Symposium

Lindsay-Thomson Symposium in Pediatric Plastic Surgery

Paediatric Upper Extremity Symposium

Craniofacial Symposium



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The University of Toronto Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery Residency
Training Program is one of the largest in North America and currently includes
28 residents, 55 teaching faculty, multiple clinical and research fellows and
10 university teaching hospitals.



The vision of our training program is to produce outstanding plastic surgeons
who will become leaders within our field and contribute to the ongoing
development of our specialty in both an academic and a community setting. This
occurs through a combination of excellence in education, world class research
and committed mentorship.



The training program is run by the Residency Program Committee (RPC). This
committee is chaired by the Program Director and includes representation from
the Chair of the Division, Resident Education leads, Research Director and
Site Leaders at all teaching centres, as well as a junior and senior resident
representative. The committee is responsible for the effective delivery of the
goals and objectives of plastic surgery residency training, as set out by the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. It is also responsible for
the selection of new residents through the Canadian Resident Matching Service
(CaRMS).



The clinical portion of the University of Toronto training program is 5 years
in duration. The first 12-18 months is considered Surgical Foundations.
Residents receive training in plastic surgery as well as in several
complementary specialties. Surgical Foundations is entirely Competence by
Design (CBD) in our Division, as is the case in other locations across Canada,
delivering a common curriculum.  This time provides basic knowledge and a
solid foundation in surgery, on which the resident will eventually build on
when entering the senior years.



The more senior years occur entirely within the Division. Residents typically
rotate on 9 rotations of four-month duration, covering all of the
"subspecialties" in Plastic Surgery.



Our academic program is diverse and includes an extremely detailed seminar
series delivered through the weekly plastic surgery school (academic half day)
curriculum. Other activities include: surgical skills labs, a research
curriculum, ethics, morbidity and mortality rounds, journal clubs, professor's
rounds, multiple symposia, research day and the annual visiting professor.



Research is a very important component of our program and residents have an
opportunity to be involved in both clinical and basic science research
throughout their training. Residents who desire a committed period of focus in
research are encouraged to access the Surgeon Scientist Program within the
Department of Surgery.  Opportunities are present to complete higher level
degrees such as a Masters and PhD.



* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

There are eleven University of Toronto teaching hospitals involved in the
plastic surgery training of residents.  
  

For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>

* * *

# Additional Information

  1. **Permanent Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education office in order to comply with current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry of Colleges and Universities
  2. **Matched applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data file to the matched university’s postgraduate education office. The postgraduate office will share the information as needed, but not limited to, the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:**  The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure to meet or provide proof**  of any of the stated requirements may result in applicant file being removed at any point during the match.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26648?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26648