#  Dalhousie University - Emergency Medicine - Halifax  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on August 27, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Rebecca Russell  

Address Emergency Medicine  
QEII Health Sciences Centre, Halifax Infirmary  
355-1796 Summer Street  
Halifax, Nova Scotia, B3H 3A7  

Work  (902) 943-4260

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Department of Emergency Medicine
](https://dalemerg.medicine.dal.ca/)  
[ Dal EM ](http://DalEM.ca)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Laurel Murphy

Title: Program Director

Email: laurelmurphy@gmail.com

Phone: (902) 473-8921

  

Name: Dr. Tyler Johnston

Title: Associate Program Director

Email: tyler.johnston@medportal.ca

Phone: (902) 473-8921

  

Name: Lauren Duke

Title: RC EM Education Coordinator

Email: RCPSEMProgram@nshealth.ca

Phone: (902) 473-8921

  

* * *

# Important Information

To obtain a postgraduate training license after the conclusion of the match,
Canadian Medical Graduates (CMG's) must have registered and challenged the
Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Exam Part 1 (MCCQE 1) by July 1, 2025.
Those unsuccessful in the exam are subject to the decision of the regulatory
authority regarding licensure.



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada

####  

You must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident _**at the time of
application**_.

Reference documents

Required

Emergency Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Three (3) Emergency Medicine structured reference letters are required. These
letters should be from faculty who have spent a significant amount of time
with the candidate, in Emergency Medicine or related fields. Letters from
senior residents will not be reviewed. References will not be accepted after
CaRMS reference letter deadline.



Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  700

  

Candidates are required to submit a personal letter. This letter should be a
maximum of 700 words in length.

It is the expectation of the program that candidates write their letter on
their own, without the assistance of artificial intelligence (AI) or other
programs.



The letter should address the following:

  * your reasons for applying to Emergency Medicine
  * what are the most challenging aspects of Emergency Medicine for you
  * how your life experiences have equipped you to succeed in the specialty
  * your strategy to avoid burnout
  * reasons for applying to the Dalhousie program
  * anything else you would like the committee to know

Custom Résumé / CV

Optional - will be reviewed

Self-identification questionnaire

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Each application is reviewed by at least three (3) independent members of the
Resident Selection Committee. Standardized forms are used to ensure fair and
transparent evaluation.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: A virtual social event will take place on
the evening of Monday, January 20, 2025.  
  
Program selection interviews will take place on Tuesday, January 21, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Candidates will have four interviews
each conducted by members of the Resident Selection Committee. The Selection
Committee includes faculty members of the Dalhousie Department of Emergency
Medicine and resident representatives. Resident representatives from the
program will also be available to meet with the applicant in a more informal
virtual setting and they will answer any questions the applicant may have
about program from a resident perspective.  
  
Social event: A virtual meet & greet will take place the evening prior to
interview day.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

The Dalhousie University Royal College Emergency Medicine residency program
aims to train leaders in Emergency Medicine that are critical thinking,
clinical experts who will take a leading role in patient care, education,
quality and safety, research, administration and innovation at a local and
national level. Our program aims to support trainees to develop and meet their
individual long-term career goals.  The program strives for excellence in all
aspects of training and undergoes annual review with significant input from
residents and faculty.  



                                                                    

## Selection process goals

Successful applicants will excel in the following domains:

  * Academic excellence as demonstrated through academic perfomance in medical school, clerkship clinical rotations and research experience
  * Interest in and knowledge of the specialty as demonstrated through elective experience and academic activities 
  * Leadership, communication and interpersonal skills
  * Interest in the development of an academic career with a desire to be involved in medical education, research and administration
  * Our program and university value the importance of equity, diversity and inclusion (EDI) in residency education, and achieving a diverse and inclusive group of residents is a goal in our selection process



## File review process

Review team composition : The Resident Selection Committee includes 6-8
faculty members of the Dalhousie Department of Emergency Medicine and 2
resident representatives.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  
We offer 24-26 interviews.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Evaluated for breadth of experience in education, life and extra-curricular activities.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Interest in Emergency Medicine and related specialties.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Reviewed   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evaluated as part of application review   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evaluated as part of application review   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evaluated as part of application review   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Personal letters are evaluated for knowledge of Emergency Medicine, experience within the specialty and interest in the Dalhousie program.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Reviewed for evidence of performance in prior Emergency Medicine experiences and ability to be successful in training.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Evaluated as part of application review   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Reviewed   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

At Dalhousie the Selection Committee recognizes that is not always possible to
obtain an on-site elective.

Candidates should not be discouraged from applying to Dalhousie if they were
unable to complete an elective with us.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evaluated as part of interview process   
Collegiality |  Evaluated as part of interview process   
Communication skills |  Evaluated as part of interview process   
Health advocacy |  Evaluated as part of interview process   
Interest in the discipline |  Evaluated as part of interview process   
Interest in the program |  Evaluated as part of interview process   
Leadership skills |  Evaluated as part of interview process   
Professionalism |  Evaluated as part of interview process   
Scholarly activities |  Evaluated as part of interview process   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Our Program**

Dalhousie has a relatively small training program with 4 residents per year.
The success of our program is built on the supportive and collegial
environment fostered amongst our residents and between the residents and
faculty. Our program is located in the center of a beautiful city, rich with
history and maritime tradition. Halifax has the amenities of city living with
excellent dining, nightlife, entertainment, music, theatre, professional and
university sports events, festivals and more. Within the city and close
surrounding areas there is access to endless outdoor activities such as world
class surﬁng, sailing, kayaking, scuba diving, hiking, rock climbing and
camping.

Unique features of our program include:

  * Close mentoring from faculty, senior residents, and Program Director
  * A diverse academic faculty offering robust opportunities for mentorship in all aspects of Academic Emergency Medicine
  * Excellent clinical tertiary care and regional sites
  * Resident-centered flexible program design
  * Excellence in pre-hospital medicine, medical education, airway training, critical thinking, simulation and ultrasound training





**Simulation**

The Dalhousie Department of Emergency Medicine has established our own
comprehensive medical simulation center within our emergency department. We
oﬀer simulation with high-ﬁdelity mannequins and clinical grade cadavers. The
Clinical Cadaver Program (CGC) provides an invaluable learning experience for
residents to perform clinical skills and procedures on cadavers preserved
through a unique process that preserves the natural compliance and texture of
human tissues whereby the CGC’s look, feel and behave in a manner that is for
the most part indistinguishable from that experienced during a procedure on a
live patient. There is no higher ﬁdelity simulation than one that uses the
human body as a medium for learning. Clinical cadavers provide a safe solution
for teaching and learning many skills where educational opportunities are
inadequate or simply not available in adequate numbers to attain or maintain
competence. A robust simulation curriculum has been integrated into our
academic core curriculum.



**Wilderness Retreat**

The Royal College and ESEM residency programs go on an annual Wilderness
Retreat. This is an three-day, two-night retreat with small group instruction
on topics such as wilderness survival, water rescue, navigation and foraging.



**Airway Experts**

During the core stage of training, residents complete rotations in general
adult anesthesia, pediatric anesthesia and difficult airway management.
Through clinical experience and simulation, our residents benefit from
instruction by leading airway experts. The Airway Interventions & Management
in Emergencies (AIME) course was developed at Dalhousie University and several
of our faculty are AIME instructors.



**PoCUS**

Dalhousie has a dedicated emergency ultrasound rotation that combines didactic
and bedside ultrasound training. An introductory ultrasound course taught by
Dalhousie faculty, Emergency and Critical Care Ultrasound (ECCU)-1, is
provided in the first year of training. On completion of the rotation you will
be proﬁcient in basic point of care ultrasound (POCUS) and be Canadian
Emergency Ultrasound Society (CEUS)-IP certiﬁed. Advanced ultrasound training
is offered during senior years of training. There is also opportunity for
POCUS fellowship training and POCUS related research.  



**Teacher Leader**

Medical Education is a strength of the Dalhousie Emergency Medicine Program.
We are uniquely positioned to provide a high caliber experience with several
faculty members who have graduate degrees in Medical Education and hold
leadership positions within the University and at a national level. We are
actively involved in education, education research and CAEP Roadshows. We are
the founding site for the AIME (Airway Interventions & Management in
Emergencies) Roadshow. Residents spend a dedicated month gaining a solid
foundation in the principles of medical education and leadership using both a
theoretical and practical approach.



**Pre-Hospital**  

Our residents complete a one-month pre-hospital rotation with the Dalhousie
Department of Emergency Medicine Division of EMS. During the rotation,
residents get hands-on experience with our internationally recognized,
integrated pre-hospital system. They gain experience in on-line medical
control and exposure to the innovative care models that exist in this system.
Residents have the opportunity to work closely with leaders in the ﬁeld of
pre-hospital care and research. Dalhousie has a one-year EMS fellowship
program that is aligned with the Area of Focused Competence (AFC) in
Prehospital and Transport Medicine from the Royal College.



**Research**

The Site Research Director at the QEII HSC, working in close collaboration
with the Dalhousie Department of Emergency Medicine, is responsible for
facilitating resident research projects. Our goal is to provide residents with
a positive and supportive environment to successfully complete their research
projects.

Each resident will choose a faculty supervisor whose research area of interest
aligns with her or his own. The supervisor will be responsible for guiding the
resident’s research project from inception to completion. The Department of
Emergency Medicine Research Council, composed of research leaders from each of
our sites in 3 provinces; actively supports the research eﬀorts of our
residents. The council helps residents ﬁnd suitable mentors and regularly
meets with residents to provide ongoing feedback, to trouble-shoot unexpected
problems and to ensure that residents are meeting timelines for successful
completion of their projects.

The Department of Emergency Medicine, has a large group of nationally and
internationally recognized researchers with an active interest in promoting
research at the resident level. We have faculty members with Master Degrees in
Clinical Epidemiology, Medical Education and Health Informatics.

Current areas of research focus within the department include: Emergency
Medical Services, airway management, medical education, CQI, procedural
sedation and analgesia, infection disease and point of care ultrasound.



**Global Health**

Global Health is a strong interest of several faculty. Many of our faculty and
residents have participated in global health projects in a clinical and
educational capacity. There is an active Global Health Oﬃce at Dalhousie
University that has multiple projects on several continents.



**Mentorship Program**

A formal mentorship program matches residents with a faculty member to provide
mentorship to residents relate to residency training, academic pursuits,
career goals and physician wellness. Residents are matched with mentors in
PGY1, and again in PGY3 if they choose to change mentors.



**Fellowship Opportunities**

Dalhousie currently offers fellowship programs in Pre-hospital medicine,
PoCUS, Pediatric Emergency Medicine and Critical Care.





* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.



**Program Overview**

The program offers four CaRMS entry residency positions this year.

Our relatively small cohort of residents beneﬁts from frequent access to staﬀ
and ongoing formal and informal coaching throughout their residency. The
program is flexible based on the specific needs of residents to achieve the
requirements of the Royal College while recognizing individual interests.

**Transition to Discipline**

Clinical rotations in this stage are:

Emergency Medicine – 3 Blocks



During the first block of each academic year we try to have all EM residents
on service in Halifax, so new residents have a chance to meet and spend time
with their resident colleagues. PGY1 residents are 'buddied' with senior EM
residents for their first block in order to familiarize our new residents with
the ins and outs of the adult department.



**Foundations**

Clinical rotations in this stage are:

Emergency Medicine – 3 Blocks

Pediatric Emergency Medicine – 1 Block

General Surgery – 1 Block

Plastic Surgery – 1 Block

Orthopedic Surgery - 1 Block

Anesthesia - 1 Block

Internal Medicine - 1 Block

Plastic Surgery - 1 Block

**Core**

Clinical rotations in this stage are:

Emergency Medicine – 17 Blocks

Point of Care Ultrasound – 1 Block

Community Emergency Medicine – 1 Block

Pediatric Emergency Medicine – minimum 4 Blocks

Critical Care (ICU) – 3 Blocks

Cardiology (CCU) – 1 Block

Neurology – 1 Block

Obstetrics and Gynecology – 1 Block

Difficult Airway – 1 Block

Pediatric Anesthesia - 1 Block

Internal Medicine (EM Consult) – 1 Block

Teacher/Leader – 1 Block

Pre-Hospital Medicine – 1 Block

Toxicology – 1 Block

Trauma Consult service - 1 Block

Infectious Diseases -1 Block

Psychiatry (EM Consult) – 1 Block

Pediatric Critical Care (PICU) – 1 Block



During Core (and Transition to Practice) residents do longitudinal resident
trauma team leader (rTTL) call.

During Core residents have up to 8 weeks of protected research time, which can
be spread over their adult EM rotations.





**Transition to Practice**

Clinical rotations in this stage are:

Area of Clinical Expertise (ACE) - The duration of this is somewhat flexible
based on the individual residents' ACE.

Emergency Medicine - at least 6 blocks; flexible depending on the individual
residents' ACE project.



During the Transition to Practice stage, residents will gain longitudinal
experience in trauma and toxicology in addition to clinical shifts. During the
second half of the year residents do junior attending shifts.

Academic Day



Our FULL academic day takes place every Wednesday. This is protected time that
residents are excused from clinical duties, regardless of the rotation that
they are on.



The academic day is structured as follows:

Morning - simulation with clinical grade cadavers or high-fidelity simulator,
Pediatric specific teaching

Noon - Department-wide rounds

Afternoon - core teaching sessions

 Other Learning Opportunities



PGY1 bootcamp

  * This occurs during the summer months of PGY1 and is a crash course in foundational EM skills (casting, ECG interpretation, etc.)



Journal Club

  * occurs monthly at a staffperson's home. Dinner is provided and articles are presented by residents and discussed as a group



Wilderness Retreat

  * this takes place in September or October each year. Residents are released from service and gather at a cottage for 2 nights. Days are spent learning about wilderness medicine (including search and rescue!) and the evenings are reserved for enjoying meals and spending time together. 



PoCUS training

  * all residents complete a specific PoCUS rotation in addition to regular on-shift training during EM rotations. 



Exam Prep

  * residents complete the CITE (Canadian in-training exam) twice per year. Results of the exam are taken up in review sessions after scores have been made available to residents
  * residents complete mock oral sessions twice per year. In the PGY1 year, residents are not evaluated during mock orals but are paired with a senior resident to observe. 

* * *

# Training Sites



**Training sites include:**

  * QEII Health Sciences Centre, Charles V. Keating Emergency & Trauma Centre (Halifax, NS)
  * IWK Health Centre (Halifax, NS)
  * Saint John Regional Hospital (Saint John, NB)
  * Other training sites within the Dalhousie Faculty of Medicine may be considered to meet training requirements. There are opportunities for community Emergency Medicine electives at numerous sites within the maritime provinces including, but not limited to Dartmouth General Hospital (Dartmouth, NS), Queen Elizabeth Hospital (Charlottetown, PEI) and Valley Regional Hospital (Kentville, NS). 

All residency programs are required to have 10% of their residency training
outside of Halifax Regional Municipality as stipulated in the most recent
Academic Funding Plan set out by the Department of Health and Wellness. Please
be aware that if matched to Dalhousie, as part of your training you will be
expected to complete rotations outside of Halifax but within the maritime
provinces.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27280?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27280