#  University of Saskatchewan - Orthopedic Surgery - Saskatoon  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on August 30, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Andrew Urmson  

Address Division of Orthopedics  
Room A5512, 103 Hospital Drive  
Royal University Hospital  
Saskatoon , Saskatchewan, S7N 0W8  

Work  (306) 844-1114

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Division of Orthopedic Surgery
](http://medicine.usask.ca/department/clinical/surgery-
divisions/orthopaedic.php)  
[ Explore the Orthopedic Surgery program at the U of S
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DL-
J_RFC4FA&list=PLh39DxXdNODVX3U0xQZhFWNHCpeVthZxT&index=6)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. A. Urmson

Title: Program Director

Email: ortho.surgery@usask.ca

  

Name: Judy Classen

Title: Program Administrative Assistant

Email: ortho.surgery@usask.ca

Phone: (306) 844-1114

(306) 655-0638

  

* * *

# Important Information

Applicants are responsible for reviewing the [University of Saskatchewan
Policies for the R-1 Match](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/saskatchewan/) to determine if they meet all
requirements and eligibility criteria. Failure to meet or provide proof of any
of the stated requirements or documents may result in an applicant’s file not
being reviewed or ranked.

**Casper Test**  
All applicants must complete the Casper test. Please refer to the Examinations
section for more information.

**Licensing  
** Matched applicants must be eligible for an educational register license
with the [College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Registration___Licensure/web/Applicants/Licensure/Registration_and_Licensure_Landing.aspx?hkey=75b022f8-df64-4f34-8e2a-a09bea881787)
(CPSS) for a July 1st start date and must maintain eligibility for an
educational register license throughout their entire training program. Matched
applicants who are graduating in the spring will need to provide a copy of
their medical degree/diploma to the PGME office and the College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Saskatchewan (CPSS) prior to the start of residency training.
Any delays in providing all required documentation to CPSS may result in the
following:

  * delay in issuance of an educational register license and a delay in start of postgraduate training beyond July 1st
  * release from CaRMS match contract

**Applicants completing medical education at the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)**  are
required to submit proof of English language proficiency before the rank order
deadline to demonstrate they meet CPSS requirements. More information is
available under Supporting Documentation-Language Proficiency.

**NOTE:**  Applicants who are considering a delay to their convocation date
must be aware that a medical degree cannot be issued to a student until they
have convocated. CPSS bylaws require that new residents must have received
their medical degree prior to the commencement of residency training. Choosing
to delay convocation will affect a matched applicant’s ability to commence
their residency training program in Saskatchewan on July 1. Please refer to
the [U of S CaRMS Deferral Policy](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/carms-
deferral-of-training-start-date---match-violation-release-from-
match.php#relatedForms) for additional information.

**Credentialing**  
In order to commence and continue in Postgraduate Medical Education training
programs, matched applicants must be eligible for and maintain privileges
within the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) as determined by their
credentialing process. The Saskatchewan Health Authority requires successful
applicants to submit immunization records and a current criminal record check
as part of their pre-resident application for appointment. Applicants with
criminal records will be considered on a case by case basis by the College of
Medicine in consultation with the Health Authority.

Any delays in providing all required documentation to the Saskatchewan Health
Authority may result in a delay in the start of postgraduate training beyond
July 1st.

**Resident Boot Camp  
** All matched applicants must attend a mandatory three-day Resident Boot Camp
scheduled for late June. The purpose of the Boot Camp is to provide additional
support to trainees as they transition to residency by introducing and
consolidating baseline skills and knowledge needed to flourish during their
residency years. The program will include interactive case-based and hands-on
practice sessions. Stipends will be provided to trainees.

Attendance is required and absences are only permitted in exceptional
circumstances, with prior approval of PGME.

**Advanced Cardiac Life Support  
** Matched applicants are required to provide proof of ACLS certification
(current as of July 1, 2025) to the PGME office prior to starting their
training program. The ACLS course must be endorsed by the Heart and Stroke
Foundation of Canada and/or the American Heart Association. ACLS training that
is not certified by these two organizations and/or is completed entirely
through an online course will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for
all costs associated with obtaining ACLS certification.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

All applicants must be Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents at the time of
application and must submit a notarized/certified photocopy of one of the
accepted citizenship documents.

Proof of citizenship must be current at the time of application and expired
documents will not be accepted.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum of 7.0 in each of the components

**Language assessment document accepted:**

  1. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on paper at a test venue
  2. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on a computer at a test venue
  3. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine at Home

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum grade of B

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of 9 in all sections

Applicants may be required to provide proof of proficiency in the English
language to meet licensing requirements of the [College of Physicians and
Surgeons (CPSS) of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Licensure/Requirements_Content/English_Language_Proficiency.aspx).

Applicants who graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States,
where English is the language of instruction **are not**  required to submit
proof of English language proficiency.

**Canadian applicants with medical education from the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)  are required
**to meet the English language proficiency requirements of the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan and must complete one of the language
exams listed above.

Applicants who are required to complete a language exam must submit a valid
test score in their CaRMS application **by the deadline for submission and
assignment of applications and documents.** Applicants who do not provide
acceptable proof of language proficiency, if required, will not be ranked.

Applicants must meet all of the criteria in one of the IELTS, OET or CELPIP
examinations. Please note that results from examinations cannot be combined,
unless the testing institution offers a sub-test.  
NOTE: Only OET offers sub-tests. CPSS will accept sub-tests obtained within
the same 24-month period as the original OET exam was sat.

Please direct any questions about language requirements to
[della.toews@usask.ca](mailto:della.toews@usask.ca). Applicants should not
contact CPSS directly about their eligibility for licensure.

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Orthopedic Surgery structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  300

  

A personal letter is required (300 words limit).

First paragraph - please describe your reasons for wanting to do a residency
in Orthopedic Surgery.

Second paragraph - please outline why you are applying to the University of
Saskatchewan Orthopedic Surgery Residency Training Program.

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 3, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: All candidates will be notified as to
whether or not they will be invited for an interview.  
  
We ask invited candidates to confirm with the program administrator, as soon
as possible, their intention to come to the interview.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All interviews will be virtual for
the 2025 R-1 match. There will be two interviews conducted by one or two
panelists. There will be a virtual social activity the night before, an
introductory virtual forum on day of interview, and a resident chat room(s)
during the interview period.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates should have a proven interest in orthopedic surgery. This can be
demonstrated by electives in orthopedics or related fields.

Three references should be obtained from academic specialists. References
should be able to attest to interest and proficiency in the specialty as well
as comment on interpersonal and manual skills.  Alll references must use the
Canada-wide Orthopedic Structured Reference Letter (SRL).

## Program goals

The University of Saskatchewan offers a well-organized comprehensive training
program in Orthopedic Surgery as per the Royal College Objectives of Training
in Orthpedic Surgery. Our residents will demonstrate the following attributes:
exceptional **teamwork** , **interpersonal skills, clinical skills, research
experience and academic excellence.**  Our program believes in a positive
work/life balance and **extracurricular activities.   **

## Selection process goals

Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability to **interact appropriately
with patients and colleagues alike.**

Identify applicants interested in **Orthopedic Surgery** , and those who will
develop into **exceptional surgeons.**

Identify applicants who have demonstrated attributes highlighted in the
**CanMEDS 2015 roles:   **Medical Expert, Communicator, Collaborator, Leader,
Health Advocate, Scholar and Professional.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated **ability and enthusiasm  **to learn
and are able to **adapt  **to a demanding residency.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our team is composed of the program director, 5
faculty and 2 residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  This gives a good overall impression of the candidate.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  There should be some electives in orthopedics to demonstrate interest. Electives in other areas in Medicine will be viewed favorably.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  All applicants must complete a Casper exam to be eligible for consideration. French stream applicants are required to submit proof of English language proficiency.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering and achievement are valued.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  This can be demonstrated in leading organizations, sports teams or smaller groups.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Students are expected to demonstrate hard work and clinical acumen.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  We are looking for interest in the specialty and our program location.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  We will evaluate students in regard to their aptitude for the specialty, hard work, and interpersonal skills. The Orthopedic Structured Reference letter (SRL) will be the only form of reference that will be accepted.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We will evaluate for demonstrated initiative and follow through.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We will assess academic performance.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We will consider candidates that show some interest in the specialty by doing
electives in Orthopedic Surgery. Doing electives in other areas of medicine is
also looked on favourably. Candidates that have done electives at our site
will be given preference.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high-quality patient care through working in a team environment.   
Collegiality |  Behaviour, attitude, ability to work well with others.   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak and write English. Ability to appropriately convey medical information in a team.   
Health advocacy |  Ability and desire to improve the health of the community.   
Interest in the discipline |  Articulating your desire to train in orthopedic surgery.   
Interest in the program |  Able to express a genuine interest in our program.   
Leadership skills |  Previous experiences demonstrating positive leadership roles.   
Professionalism |  Appropriate interactions with staff, residents and allied health professionals.   
Scholarly activities |  Ability to explain previous research experiences.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

We have a yearly Combined Research Day with the University of Manitoba.   The
programs alternate visiting and hosting.  This involves a one-day event with
air travel.

We have newly renovated the Orthopedic learning centre with the latest AV
technology and virtual meeting capability.

We have transitioned into our brand new state of art Surgical Simulation lab.  

We have a favorable resident to staff ratio fostering a supportive learning
environment.

We have many off-service rotations allowing for a broad medical and surgical
experience in Surgical Foundations.

We have established a night float call system.

Every year we have a summer retreat to welcome the new residents held off-site
at a faculty's cabin.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

### Curriculum

The University of Saskatchewan has a very strong history of clinical and
didactic teaching.  Daily teaching and weekly grand rounds provide ample
learning opportunities for our residents.   Residents experience a Surgical
Foundations and Orthopedic boot camp at the start of residency.   Surgical
simulation uses fresh frozen cadavers, advanced sawbone models, and multiple
orthopedic implants.

### Transition to Discipline

The Surgical Foundations boot camp runs concurrently with an orthopedic
rotation for the first two months.    It is a combination of didactic learning
and surgical simulation.   Residents will also take the ATLS Course.

In addition to the Surgical Foundations boot camp, the Orthopedics boot camp
takes place in the first two weeks.

### Surgical Foundations

Surgical Foundations consists of 21 blocks of orthopedics:   Hip and Knee
Reconstruction, Orthopedic Trauma, Spine, Pediatric Orthopedics, Sports and
Night Float.  Off-service rotations include 1 block each of: ICU, Trauma
Surgery, Plastic Surgery, Emergency Medicine, Internal Medicine.

### Core

Residents are based at the Royal University Hospital and Saskatoon City
Hospital in Saskatoon where block rotations include Sports, Upper Extremity,
Foot and Ankle, Hip & Knee Reconstruction/Orthopedic Tumour Surgery, Spine
Surgery, Pediatric Orthopedics and Trauma Orthopedics.  

During fourth year residents work with surgeons in community practice such as
Regina, Prince Albert, Moose Jaw and Lloydminster.   They have 1-2 blocks of
elective time for out-of-province rotations in third or fourth year. They have
1 block of knowledge consolidation before their specialty examination.

### Transition to Practice

A short period of time before finishing residency focusing on knowledge gaps
and developing skills to start independent practice.

### Seminars

Almost every day there are formal scheduled rounds and seminars which are
mandatory for all residents.  The format varies from didactic sessions to
small group interactive sessions, depending on the faculty member(s) involved.
Our weekly teaching sessions are comprehensive and cover the breadth of
orthopedics.  Weekly rounds: Extremity, Fracture, Anatomy/Basic Science,
Pediatrics, Spine and Orthopedic Grand Rounds.  In addition we have rounds in:
M&M, Pathology, Radiology, Medicine, Anesthesia, and Journal Club.

### Research

It is mandatory for residents to be involved in a research project in
orthopedics or a related area in their R1, R2, R3 and R4 years.    One project
is expected to be a completed manuscript.   The project, at whatever stage of
completion, will be presented at the Combined University of Manitoba &
University of Saskatchewan Orthopedic Resident Research Day.   There is an
annual resident research day for the U of S Department of Surgery where
completed papers from all surgical disciplines are presented.  

For all residents there is a protected 1/2 day of research time per week.

Many papers are also presented at the Canadian Orthopaedic Association Annual
Meeting and proceed to publication.

To give the R-5s more study time in preparation for the Royal College
examination there is no research requirement.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Saskatoon City Hospital**

**Royal University Hospital**

**St. Paul's Hospital**

**Jim Pattison Children's Hospital**

**Saskatoon Prairieview Surgical Centre**

**Saskatoon Surgicentre**

**Regina Hospitals**

**Prince Albert Hospital  **

**Lloydminster Hospital**

**Moose Jaw Hospital**

**Northern Medical Services**

**Offices of the community based faculty  
  
**

**Distributive Learning at the University of Saskatchewan**

There are orthopedic surgery selective experiences in Regina, Prince Albert,
Lloydminster, and Moose Jaw.  These rotations are designed to give the trainee
an opportunity to learn in a non-academic environment.

* * *

# Additional Information

**Additional Comments**

We believe the distinguishing strength of our program is to give each resident
a great deal of personal attention. This is made possible by our relatively
small size and a highly dedicated group of teaching staff.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26555?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26555