#  Dalhousie University - Family Medicine integrated Emergency Medicine - Cape
Breton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on October 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Sasha Sealy  

Address Family Medicine  
1465 Brenton St.  
Suite 402  
Halifax, Nova Scotia, B3J 3T4  

Work  902-487-2012

902-473-4760

Websites of Interest [ Dalhousie Family Medicine
](http://fmr.medicine.dal.ca/)  
[ Dalhousie Family Medicine Residency Sites
](https://www.maritimefamilymedicine.ca/)  
[ Residency at Dalhousie Family Medicine (Video)
](https://youtu.be/8Ili0qE7hf0)  
[ Cape Breton Site (video) ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5UJguQHvxMc)  
[ Dalhousie Faculty of Medicine Postgraduate Program
](http://medicine.dal.ca/departments/core-units/postgraduate.html)  
[ Maritime Resident Doctors ](http://www.maritimeresidentdoctors.ca/)  
[ Career on Beautiful Cape Breton Island ](https://doctorscapebreton.com/)  
[ Cape Breton Regional Redevelopment ProJect
](https://healthredevelopment.novascotia.ca/cbrmhealth)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: FMEM Cape Breton

Name: Dr. Mike MacDonald

Title: Site Director

Email: MacDonaldMJ@me.com

Phone: (902) 567-7741

  

General Information: FMEM Cape Breton

Name: Jacquie Heading

Title: Site Administrator

Email: jacquieheading@nshealth.ca

Phone: (902) 567-7496

  

General Information: Program Information

Name: James Logan

Title: Accreditation and CaRMS Administrator

Email: fmresidency@dal.ca

Phone: 902-487-2012

902-473-4760 (Fax)

  

* * *

# Important Information

[NOVA SCOTIA, NEW BRUNSWICK and PEI](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-
residency-match/eligibility-criteria/nova-scotia-new-brunswick-pei/):  To
obtain a postgraduate training license in Nova Scotia after the conclusion of
the match, Canadian Medical Graduates must have registered and challenged the
Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Exam Part 1 (MCCQE 1) by July 1, 2025.
Those unsuccessful in the exam are subject to the decision of the regulatory
authority regarding [licensure](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/r-1-summary-of-mcc-examination-
requirements/#1705502447926-7b75d3bd-286e).

Our program values the importance of equity, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) as
a goal in the selection process.

To help inform and advance EDI in our selection process we are pleased to
offer the option to submit the voluntary CaRMS Self Identification
Questionnaire. Additionally, there is an additional verification process for
Indigenous membership or citizenship. Please see sections below for further
information.  
  

**Important Deadline for Site Selection:  
** Please note that the deadline for adding or dropping a site to your list of
choices is _**February 3, 2025**_. Be sure to finalize your site preferences
before this date, as no changes can be made after the deadline.

  
**_Mandatory Attendance Curriculum Event:_**  
_Each year Dalhousie Family Medicine hosts a mandatory attendance curriculum
event - a Family Medicine Resident Education Weekend.  Attendance for all
residents from all sites is required. Further information is provided to
residents. **Time off requests  will not be approved during this period
excluding extenuating circumstances. FMREW 2025 will be held at the Algonquin
Resort in St. Andrews, NB on Wednesday, September 24 - Friday, September 26,
2025.**_

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Applicants must apply to and rank each of the Dalhousie Family Medicine sites
individually.

There will only be ONE interview per applicant although you may be applying to
more than one Dalhousie Family Medicine Site. For candidates applying to both
2-year FM and 3-year iFMEM sites, or only 3-year iFMEM sites, the interview
will include all required content for both site types.  

The same personal letter MUST be used for all Dalhousie Family Medicine
applications as only one letter will be reviewed per applicant. This is true
for all sites, including both the 2-year family medicine sites as well as the
3-year Family Medicine integrated Emergency Medicine sites; submit one
personal letter for ALL sites.

**FMProC Requirement for CaRMS 2025**

For the 2025 residency selection cycle ALL FM residency programs in Canada
require applicants to sit FMProC for those applying in both rounds of CaRMS.
To support this we provide the test with the following registration and test
window dates;  
  
**1st round  
Registration:  
**Opens 11th September Wednesday 12 noon ET.  
**Closes 7th November Thursday 10AM ET.**  
We strongly advise you not to leave registration till the last minute.  
  
**Test Window:**  
Opens 28th October Monday 8AM ET.  
**Closes 11th November Monday 10AM ET.  
  
**THESE DEADLINES ARE FINAL AND NO REQUEST FOR LATE REGISTRATION OR LATE
SITTING OF THE TEST WILL BE CONSIDERED**  
ALL **17 FM Residency Programs require the FMProC for both rounds of the
upcoming CaRMS cycle, but you only need to register, pay for, and sit the
test, once.  
  
**2nd round  
Registration:**  
Opens 25th February Tuesday 12 noon ET.  
**Closes 10th March Monday 12 noon ET.**  
  
**Test Window:**  
Opens 27th February Thursday 10AM ET.  
**Closes; 12th March Wednesday 10AM ET.  
  
**THESE DEADLINES ARE FINAL AND NO REQUEST FOR LATE REGISTRATION OR LATE
SITTING OF THE TEST WILL BE CONSIDERED**  
ALL **17 FM Residency Programs require the FMProC for both rounds of the
upcoming CaRMS cycle, but you only need to register, pay for, and sit the
test, once.  
**  
Please read the following carefully as it includes important information.  
[FAQs](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/sites/default/files/teams/128/FMProC/FMProC_CProMF%202025_FAQs.pdf)  
[Information](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/sites/default/files/teams/128/FMProC/FMProC_CProMF%202025_Information_V2.0%2024-07-25%20ENG%20Clean.pdf)**

Further details can be found here: [www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/)  

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

####  

You must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident _**at the time of
application**_.

Examinations

Required

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

For CARMS 2025, Family Medicine Programs continue with the adoption of the
Canadian Family Medicine _Structured Reference Letter_  (SRL). Any FM program
requesting a reference will require the form. **Traditional narrative letters
will NOT be accepted**. Should your referee submit a traditional letter it
will not be reviewed and your application may be deemed incomplete. Please
direct your referees to the SRL on the CaRMS website.

It is required that a minimum of two (2) of the three (3) SRLs are obtained
from those you have worked with in a **clinical setting**.

**DO NOT SEND MORE THAN 3.**

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English, you
are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Custom Résumé / CV

Please identify your high school of graduation and its location (city,
province) in your CV.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

A personal letter of introduction is a key component in our selection criteria
and is required in addition to the CaRMS application.** Candidates who fail to
provide a personal letter WILL NOT BE RANKED.**

Your letter should be no more than 750 words in length. Topics to be covered
in this letter are:

  * **ANY GAP in training, TIME NOT ACCOUNTED FOR IN YOUR eCaRMS CV, additional time required to finish your MD program, or any failures experienced throughout your MD program or previous residency training programs MUST BE EXPLAINED  in this letter**

  * if you were unmatched in previous years, please advise what clinical/educational activities you've been involved in since that time

  * your concept of family medicine

  * reason for choosing family medicine

  * particular interest in the Dalhousie program

  * where you hope to practice

  * a brief biographical sketch

  * your reflection on how you meet our selection criteria

If you have a personal relationship to the Maritime provinces, please ensure
to explain that in your personal letter in addition to the above topics.



Conditionally required

Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry

**Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry and/or Self-Identification of Black
Learners**

We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. Any responses received will be used only to support our
program’s and Dalhousie’s equity, diversity, and inclusion goals.

We invite applicable candidates to also complete Dalhousie’s verification
process for Indigenous identity, membership, or citizenship; or the self-
identification process for those who identify as Black.



**Conditionally required**

Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry

If you have self-identified as Indigenous, we require additional information.

Applicants shall provide a certified copy of one or more of the following
documents with their application:

  1. A Certificate of Indian Status issued by the Government of Canada, or a First Nation recognized by the Government of Canada;
  2. Written confirmation of membership or citizenship with a federally recognized band or tribal authority in the United States or Canada;
  3. Written confirmation of Inuit enrolment or a copy of an Inuit enrolment/beneficiary card issued by a modern Inuit treaty organization or government as follows:  
3.1 Inuvialuit Regional Corporation;  
3.2 Nunavut Tunngavik Incorporated;  
3.3 Makivik Corporation;  
3.4 Nunatsiavut Government;

  4. Written confirmation of Métis citizenship/membership or a copy of a Métis citizenship/membership card provided by a Métis government as follows:  
4.1 Métis National Council governing members:  
4.2 Métis Nation – Saskatchewan;  
4.3 Métis Nation of Alberta;  
4.4 Métis Nation British Columbia;  
4.5 Métis Nation of Ontario;  
4.6 Manitoba Métis Federation;  
4.7 Métis Settlements of Alberta.

Applicants who do not supply any of the documents listed above shall supply a
250-word statement with applicable supporting documentation that demonstrates
how they meet the citizenship or membership criteria established by the
recognized Indigenous nation to which they claim membership or citizenship.

The above information is only made available to Dalhousie PGME, Program
Director, and Program Manager of applicable training programs and will only be
used for purposes of the CaRMS matching process.

Please see below for the certification of documents.

# Certification of Documents

Documents may be certified by one of the following professionals:

  1. Accountant
  2. Chief of a First Nations Band
  3. Commissioner for Oaths
  4. Employee of a Service Canada Centre acting in an official capacity
  5. Funeral Director
  6. Justice of the Peace
  7. Lawyer, Magistrate, or Notary
  8. Manager of a Financial Institution
  9. Regulated Medical or Health Practitioner
  10. Member of Parliament or their staff
  11. Member of a Provincial/Territorial Legislature or their staff
  12. Minister of Religion
  13. Municipal Clerk
  14. Official of a Federal/Provincial/Indigenous Government Department or one of its agencies
  15. Official of an Embassy, Consulate, or High Commission
  16. Police Officer
  17. Professional Engineer
  18. Social Worker
  19. Teacher
  20. University Professor or Staff

The person certifying the document(s) must:

  1. Compare the original to the copy
  2. State their official position or title
  3. Print their name
  4. Sign their name
  5. Write the date they certified the document
  6. Provide their telephone number
  7. Write the following statement: This is a true copy of the original document, which has not been altered in any way

**Conditionally required**

Self-identification Process for Black Learners

If you self-identify as Black, please complete the following questions, and
include with your application:

1\. **Do you self-identify as Black?**

Yes/No

2.**If yes, please choose the category you identify most with:**

a. African Nova Scotian*

b. Black Maritimer

i. Nova Scotia without ties to a historic African Nova Scotian community

ii. New Brunswick

iii. Prince Edward Island

c. Black Canadian

d. Multiracial

i. African Nova Scotian and ______

ii. Black Maritimer and ________

iii. Black Canadian and _________

iv. Black and Indigenous

3\. **In 500 words or less, please speak to the self-identification category
you chose above. Include things to highlight your connection to Black
community as well as your lineage. If you chose African Nova Scotian, note
Dalhousie uses the following definition from the African Nova Scotian
Strategy, and we ask you speak to your specific land-based community.**

* “African Nova Scotians are a distinct People who descend from free and enslaved Black Planters, Black Loyalists, Black Refugees, Maroons and other Black people who inhabited the original 52 land-based Black communities in that part of Mi’kma’ki known as Nova Scotia.” ([African Nova Scotian Strategy](https://www.dal.ca/about/mission-vision-values/equity-diversity-inclusion-and-accessibility/about-office-equity-inclusion.html#:~:text=WHAT%20IS%20THE%20AFRICAN%20NOVA,with%20African%20Nova%20Scotian%20communities))



All self-identification documentation will be reviewed by the Black faculty
leadership within the Faculty of Medicine.



Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire or to complete Dalhousie’s verification process, but for those
that do feel comfortable doing so the information received would only be used
to advantage those who would contribute to the diversity of our community.

Optional - will be reviewed

Self-identification questionnaire

We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. Any responses received will be used only to support our
program’s and Dalhousie’s equity, diversity, and inclusion goals.

Additionally, we invite applicable candidates to also complete Dalhousie’s
verification process for Indigenous identity, membership, or citizenship.

Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire or to complete Dalhousie’s verification process, but for those
that do feel comfortable doing so the information received would only be used
to advantage those who would contribute to the diversity of our community.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be conducted via an online
platform.  
  
**Please note, only ONE interview date and time per applicant can be scheduled
regardless of the number of sites to which you apply. Those applicants who
apply for both FM and iFMEM sites, or only iFMEM sites, will be offered a
Combined  Interview date and time for their ONE interview; this Combined
Interview date will be used for both the FM and iFMEM selection process.
Interviews are mandatory to be ranked by this program.**  
  
**Interviews are  mandatory to be ranked by this program.**  
  
**We will be holding virtual Information Sessions on the following dates and
times (Atlantic Standard Time):  
**  
  
**Thursday, November 14, 2024, from 7 - 9 pm AST**  
  
**Wednesday, November 27, 2024, from 7 - 9 pm AST**  
  
**Saturday, January 11, 2025, from 12 - 2 pm AST  
  
**  
  
**Please visit our Family Medicine event page
([Link)](https://medicine.dal.ca/departments/department-
sites/family/education/postgraduate/family-medicine-events.html "Family
Medicine Events Page") for updates and registration.**  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: For questions please contact:  
  
James Logan  
  
Accreditation and CaRMS Administrator  
  
Email: fmresidency@dal.ca  
  
Phone: 902-487-2012  
  
Fax: 902-473-4760  
  
**  
Please note only one interview will be offered to each applicant.**  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

The Dalhousie Department of Family Medicine's program goal is to train
residents to be family physicians who through education, research,
comprehensive clinical care, and engagement in partnerships, meet the needs of
Maritime communities.  Residents are trained to address health needs of all
populations including underserved communities and individuals with complex
needs, giving them the ability to practice in diverse family practice
settings.  

Our program and university value the importance of equity, diversity and
inclusion (EDI) in residency education, and achieving a diverse and inclusive
group of residents is a goal in our selection process. The CaRMS Self
Identification Questionnaire advances diversity and inclusivity within the
residency program.

                                                 

## Selection process goals

As a program we are looking for applicants with solid people skills, a variety
of life experiences, an admirable work ethic and reasonable academic
background. We look for evidence of commitment to family medicine in your
personal letter. We are interested in candidates who are comfortable with
self-directed learning, with teamwork, with seeking out the countless learning
opportunities available, and with an interest in an appropriate balance
between personal life, family, community and professional life.

Dalhousie is committed to fostering a collegial culture grounded in diversity
and inclusiveness. The university encourages applications from Indigenous
persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women, persons of a
minority sexual orientation and/or gender identity, and all candidates who
would contribute to the diversity of our community.

Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire or to complete the verification process for Indigenous identity,
membership, or citizenship, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so
the information received would only be used to advantage those who would
contribute to the diversity of our community.

Any self identification questionnaires received and the results of the
verification process will be reviewed as part of our file review process, and
used as an aid for file reviewers in selecting a diverse group of candidates
for interviews. Information received may also be used by the program to adjust
final rankings, at the discretion of the selection committee, to address
issues of program priority and diversity.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team includes faculty and resident file
reviewers from each site.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 401 - 600  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  
We endeavour to interview all CMG applicants based on capacity, except for
those with incomplete applications. An application is deemed incomplete if any
of the required documents are not received on or before the application and
document assignments deadline of November 29th, 2024, at 12:00 (noon) ET.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Please see Additional Documents section for details regarding CV content. Content evaluated.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Please see elective criteria section for details.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Content evaluated.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of involvement in extra-curricular activities.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of leadership experience is viewed positively.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Content evaluated.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Please see Additional Documents section for details regarding personal letter content.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Prefer at least one Reference Letter from a Family Physician or Generalist. Require a minimum of two letters from those worked with in a clinical setting.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest or involvement in research.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance and gaps/extensions in training.   
Other file component(s) |  Reference Documents- We look for comments that the candidate is suited to a career in Family Medicine, comments about performance in a generalist setting as well as candidates' clinical experience and personal characteristics.  
  
The same personal letter MUST be used for all Dalhousie Family Medicine
applications as only one letter will be reviewed per applicant. This is true
for all sites, including both the 2-year family medicine sites as well as the
3-year Family Medicine integrated Emergency Medicine sites; submit one
personal letter for ALL sites.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We are looking for applicants who have completed a range of electives
including in family medicine. For students who have trained in an LIC in a
family medicine practice, family medicine electives are not required.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  1 faculty or 1 faculty and 1 resident team.  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to actively participate in a team environment.   
Collegiality |  We do not specifically evaluate this interview component.   
Communication skills |  Ability to communicate clearly and effectively in English.   
Health advocacy |  We do not specifically evaluate this interview component.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated interest in Family Medicine.   
Interest in the program |  Interest in living in the Maritimes.   
Leadership skills |  We do not specifically evaluate this interview component.   
Professionalism |  We evaluate professionalism based on personal presentation and interactions.   
Scholarly activities |  We do not specifically evaluate this interview component.   
Other interview component(s) |  There will only be ONE interview per applicant although you may be applying to more than one Dalhousie Family Medicine Site. For candidates applying to both 2-year FM and 3-year iFMEM sites, or only 3-year iFMEM sites, the interview will include all required content for both site types.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**The Dalhousie Program - An Overview:**

Have you always wanted to learn in a community setting where family physicians
are respected and valued? If so, Dalhousie is the place for you. Teaching
residents and students in communities across the Maritimes has been the focus
of our Department from its beginnings. Our aim is to encourage residents to
become effective, compassionate family physicians who can care for their
patients in hospital, ambulatory and community settings. You will be able to
learn office practice, in-patient care, obstetrics, procedures and emergency
skills from family physicians who are skilled and experienced.

**_What support is available to residents in the program including rural
clinical learning experiences?_**

Residents are only expected to pay rent in one location. Thus, if a resident
has a lease or a mortgage, and the program requires them to live at another
site for a period of time, the cost of the rent is reimbursed to the resident.
Travel expenses are paid when a resident is required to move to a different
site for a core clinical learning experience. If residents are required to
travel to multiple sites during a core clinical learning experience, they are
reimbursed for the additional kilometres. Travel to and from work is not
reimbursed.

**_Are there opportunities for electives?_**

Residents in the Dalhousie University program can arrange up to four weeks of
their elective time outside of the Maritime Provinces. Other elective time
should be done in the Maritime Provinces.  Residents can apply to do more than
four weeks outside the Maritime Provinces for global health experiences.

**_What are the research requirements of the program?_**

A resident project is required during the residency. Residents receive
protected time for scholarly activity during the core family medicine clinical
learning experience to work on this project. It is also expected that the
residents will take advantage of any expertise available to them through their
community practice clinical learning experiences. The purpose of the resident
project is to introduce the resident to the process of finding answers to
questions commonly encountered in primary care by critically reviewing the
available literature. Where such answers are found lacking, the resident may
choose to employ an appropriate methodology to design a study using proper
scientific rigour, to answer that question.

**_What about ATLS, ALARM, ACLS and NRP?_**

Advanced Trauma Life Support (ATLS), Advances in Labour and Risk Management
(ALARM), Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS), Neonatal Resuscitation Program
(NRP) - **All residents are required to have ACLS prior to beginning
residency**. During the residency, all residents are funded to attend an ATLS
course, an ALARM course, an NRP course, and an ACLS refresher.

**_How do residents learn evidence-based medicine and research skills?_**

Current approaches to practising evidence-based medicine are taught through
patient and practice-based tutorials. Emphasis is on learning the skills to
seek the research evidence to support clinical decision-making.

**_What PGY3 positions are available?_**

There are PGY3 positions in Emergency Medicine, Palliative Care and Care of
the Elderly at Dalhousie. Individualized third year programs may also be
available at a resident's request and initiative and subject to funding
availability.

\----

**THE SYDNEY THREE YEAR INTEGRATED FAMILY MEDICINE EMERGENCY MEDICINE PROGRAM
– Introduction:**

The Sydney program is a community-based family medicine residency teaching
program that combines the core competencies currently addressed in the two-
year Family Medicine and the one-year Enhanced Skills in Emergency Medicine
programs into an integrated three-year program. The integrated approach will
result in competencies being accumulated over the three-year program. Some
components will continue to be completed in a similar fashion to the
traditional Family Medicine program but other competencies will be obtained in
a more horizontal and longitudinal fashion that builds on the skills obtained
over a longer period of time.

We are located in Sydney, on beautiful Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia. We are
comprised of four acute care facilities and five rural facilities within our
major referral center, Cape Breton Regional Hospital (CBRH), is located in the
city of Sydney. Opened in 1995, Cape Breton Regional Hospital is the main
referral and trauma centre for Cape Breton Island. It currently has 162 acute
care beds, 36 emergency beds, 23 intermediate and critical care beds, 40
maternal child beds, 52 mental health and addictions beds, and nine palliative
care beds. This site is currently undergoing a [massive redevelopment
project](https://healthredevelopment.novascotia.ca/cbrmhealth/cape-breton-
regional-hospital-sydney "CBRH Redevelopment Project"). The Cape Breton
Regional Hospital serves both as the community hospital for Sydney and
surrounding area, as well as the regional referral center for the Island. We
are the second busiest healthcare facility in Nova Scotia with over 47,000
emergency department visits/year. Again, only second to the QEII in Halifax,
we have the highest patient care mix (degree of patient complexity) in the
province. Sixty-six (66%) of emergency patients at our site have a CTAS score
of 1-3. We have a dedicated staff of more than 3,500 health care providers who
work with 270 hospital and community-based physicians to provide primary,
secondary and tertiary care to approximately 130,000 people.

The 2-year Sydney based Family Medicine Residency Program was established in
1997. The program is designed to prepare residents to become family physicians
who are confident and competent to practice in rural and urban setting where
specialty services are reasonably accessible.

Our community-based program uses a preceptor model for our family medicine
clinical learning experiences and most specialty clinical learning
experiences. In this model the resident is assigned to one preceptor and
participates in all aspects of patient care that the preceptor is involved in.
In this manner we try to maximize the hands-on practical learning experience
for each resident. Throughout the program we try to emphasize the role of
family physicians in all aspects of patient care and in all health care
settings (office/collaborative care, community, ambulatory care, inpatient
care, emergency medicine).

**

**THE SYDNEY THREE YEAR INTEGRATED FAMILY MEDICINE EMERGENCY MEDICINE PROGRAM
- Unique Features:**

This innovative program is designed to prepare family physicians for
comprehensive patient care while fulfilling valuable leadership roles. Family
physicians in smaller communities, who frequently staff emergency rooms, are
required to be highly trained and equipped to deal with situations that their
colleagues in larger centres often don't encounter. To better integrate the
training required of a physician practising family and emergency medicine
concurrently, this program combines the two aspects of practice in a more
cohesive manner. The program covers core competencies currently addressed with
the two-year family medicine and the one-year emergency medicine programs. The
two components are integrated, resulting in competencies being accumulated
over the three years.

The resident will spend a large portion of their time in a rural setting where
they will work with a family doctor who also works in the rural emergency
department. Residents in this program share curriculum with the residents of
the core family medicine program as well as having curriculum designed
specifically for this program. Residents work in the emergency department on a
regular basis during their core family medicine rotations and experience
comprehensive family medicine all through their three years.

The CBRH is a multi-specialty regional hospital with full integration of
family medicine within a collegial, multi-disciplinary atmosphere. We foster a
collaborative learning model and encourage teaching by our residents to our
junior learners where layered learning opportunities exist. Services do not
often have multiple learners together, meaning that you will often be the only
learner involved in a patient’s care. Cape Breton Regional Hospital in Sydney
is the primary teaching facility for specialty rotations within Cape Breton.
We on occasion have core internal medicine residents, critical care or
cardiology electives. The culture of being an ‘off-service resident’, or
resident hierarchy, is largely non-existent at our site.

**  

**THE SYDNEY THREE YEAR INTEGRATED FAMILY MEDICINE EMERGENCY MEDICINE PROGRAM
- Clinical Learning Experiences:**

**Core Family Medicine:**

Our teaching practices place residents with community-based family physicians.
Using this preceptor model the residents are placed in practices that expose
them to a wide spectrum of family medicine. In this way residents are exposed
to a large number of patients with a wide variety of illnesses in a number of
clinical settings (office, hospital, inpatient, house calls, etc.). Each
resident develops a panel of patients that they will follow for the three
years both in family medicine block time and their full-day back which is a
key part of both in the three years. A resident's level of responsibility will
be graded as clinical skills improve and individual performance becomes more
efficient and effective.

**Full Day Back Family Medicine:**

Each resident will attend their own patients at the office of their family
medicine preceptor for one full-day every second week for all of the weeks the
resident is doing specialty rotations. This ensures both continuity of care as
well as the ability to see a "panel of patients" over a longer period of time.
This is extended over the entire three-year program.

**Emergency Medicine:**

Residents will spend a total of 28 weeks over three years practising emergency
medicine in blocks (including 4 weeks of pediatric EM). Here, residents will
get hands-on experience in the typical case load seen by an emergency
physician, including acute medicine, orthopedics, critical care and trauma
team activation, as well as pediatrics and mental health. The CBRH EM boasts a
mature program with experience in post-graduate education since 1997. We have
an active Point of Care Ultrasound (POCUS) group. Through funded CME,
residents will become ECCU certified in POCUS in their 2nd year, with
opportunity to continue their CME toward ECCU IP School, in addition to
advanced POCUS techniques, in 3rd year. Our program also funds additional CME
opportunities in courses such as CASTED, AIME/AIME Advanced and ATLS to name a
few.

**Longitudinal Days Back Emergency Medicine:**

During core family medicine rotations, each resident will spend one to two
shifts per week in the emergency dept. This allows the residents to experience
emergency medicine as would a family physician sharing time between an office
and the emergency dept. This half-day back is extended over the duration of
the three-year program.

**Rural/Community Family Medicine:**

In the first-year, residents will experience 8 weeks in one of our beautiful
rural/community locations: Baddeck, Cheticamp, Arichat or Neil's Harbour. In
second year, residents spend 16 weeks and in third year 8 weeks, also in one
of these communities. These communities have small urgent care centers or
emergency departments to provide opportunity to learn rural emergency medicine
longitudinally through these rotations.

**Evidence Based Medicine:**

Critical appraisal skills are taught through a series of evidence-based
medicine seminars that form part of our Journal Club. Here residents are
taught to formulate a clinical question, search the literature and then
evaluate the evidence to support clinical decision-making.

**What is the ratio of residents to faculty?**

Although we are an active teaching site, for the most part, our residents
enjoy the fact that there is minimal overlap with undergraduate students or
specialty residents during their various clinical learning experiences. This
combined with our preceptor model usually ensures that our residents have a
one-to-one ratio with their assigned faculty preceptor. Moreover, our
residents often enjoy multiple preceptors eager to provide educational
opportunities. By and large, our program is very much educationally focused,
rather than service driven.

**What is the average patient load per resident?**

The family practices in Cape Breton are very busy. Residents see as many
patients per day as their comfort level and competence permits.

**What resources are available?**

All core practices use an electronic medical record for patient record keeping
and tracking. Patient care records, hospital care patient records, laboratory
work and digital x-rays are all available for instant access. Our emergency
department uses a mixture of paper chart and EMR.

Dedicated wireless Internet for the residents/faculty is available at the Cape
Breton Reginal Hospital. Residents will have access to high-speed internet in
the community/rural sites.

Dedicated study areas and computer access available.

Academic sessions can be attended synchronously with Zoom.

There is a simulation lab being built through our redevelopment project. In
the interim, we have partnered with our hospital's interprofessional practice
team to help create a high fidelity simulation program delivered over a 2 year
curriculum to both FM and iFMEM residents.  Students can expect to participate
in over 20 simulation cases throughout their training, in addition to
completing a procedural skills curriculum focusing on both basic skills such
as ECG interpretation, casting, airway, vascular access as well as more
advanced procedures delivered in PGY3. We also partner with our Saint John
site to deliver cadaver based simulation opportunities to our iFMEM residents.

Newly renovated resident lounge.

**What is the training atmosphere like at the Cape Breton site?**

Training in Cape Breton is exciting and collegial. Our residents are seen as
team members with a focus very much on education and not service delivery. At
times there may be inverse ratios, with multiple preceptors available to one
resident. For example, emergency department shifts may find the resident
pulled off for an interesting critical care case or procedure with internal
medicine, or jumping in on a trauma or resuscitation with one of the
overlapping emergency physicians. Even when off service, our residents are
often kept engaged with interesting cases. While on ‘off-service’ rotations,
residents are often the only learner thereby first assist in the OR, or
getting valuable hands-on experience during ICU, anesthesia and inpatient
rotations. The size of the CBRH is unique in that it affords a lot of
interesting acuity and pathology, while being small enough to allow you to
develop relationships with the many healthcare providers you will work with
over your three years. Residents who excel at our site are often self-directed
in seeking out learning opportunities. Given your motivation, the
possibilities are endless.

**

**Our Community and Region:**

Distance from nearest airport to Academic Centre | 14km from J.A. Douglas McCurdy Sydney Airport to Cape Breton Regional Hospital located at 1482 George St. Sydney.  
---|---  
Housing/Accommodation | Residents are only expected to pay rent in one location and are responsible for securing accommodation.  Average cost of accommodation varies widely depending on community.  
Resident Contract | [Maritime Resident Doctors](http://www.maritimeresidentdoctors.ca/)  
PGY2 Electives | Residents in Dalhousie University program can arrange up to 4 weeks of their elective time outside the Maritime  Provinces.  Other electives must be done in the Maritime Provinces.  Residents can apply to do more than 4 weeks outside the Maritime Provinces for global health experiences.  
Other Location Information | Cape Breton is a beautiful and varied island with some of the most spectacular scenery in the world.  To discover more please see [Cape Breton Island.](https://www.cbisland.com/)  
  
* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 3 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Each year Dalhousie Family Medicine hosts a mandatory attendance curriculum
event - a Family Medicine Resident Education Weekend (FMREW). Attendance for
all residents from all sites is required. Further information is provided to
residents. **Time off requests will not be approved during this period
excluding extenuating circumstances. FMREW 2025 will be held at the Algonquin
Resort in St. Andrews, NB on Wednesday, September 24 - Friday, September 26,
2025.**  
  

  
The program curriculum (academic and clinical) is set by the Curriculum
Committee, which includes members from all ten teaching sites (Annapolis
Valley, Cape Breton, Fredericton, Halifax, Miramichi, Moncton, North Nova,
Prince Edward Island, Saint John and South West Nova).

**PGY1 Rotations:**

The first year of the program provides a solid basis in family medicine with
role modelling and clinical experiences that integrate family medicine and
emergency medicine in both rural and urban settings. Typically, a full day of
academic Family Medicine curriculum is delivered monthly and includes QI and
practice improvement, and Practice Based Small Group Learning (PBSGL). Six
mandatory CanMeds e-modules (Aboriginal Health, Apology Legislation, Death
Certificates, Handover Best Practices, Health Law. NS Prescription Monitoring
Program) are required to be completed by end of PGY1 academic year

**PGY1 Clinical Learning Experiences  **

**Placements** |  **Duration** |  **Location/Notes**  
---|---|---  
Core Family Medicine |  12 weeks |  Comprehensive Family Medicine (office/on-call/home visits/inpatient care/ambulatory care, etc.) Includes scheduled time to complete shifts in the emergency department (1-2/week). Once FM CLE is complete, resident will attend one day back every other week in FM preceptor's office.  
Emergency Medicine |  4 weeks |  Core experience; combination of day, evening and night shifts. During some Specialty CLEs, may be required to work at least 1 ER shift weekly.  
General Medicine |  8 weeks |  Core experience including consultation services to emergency department  
General Surgery |  4 weeks |  Including consultation services to the Emergency Department and clinics (including minor procedures, breast evaluation, follow-up)  
Obstetrics/Gynecology |  8 weeks |  Clinics (including family medicine prenatal clinics); labour and delivery unit, and emergency consults  
Orthopaedics |  4 weeks |  Clinics and consultation services to the emergency department  
Pediatrics |  4 weeks |  Clinics, in-patient care and emergency consults  
Community Family Medicine |  8 weeks |  Residents will stay and work in a small Maritime community with a level 3 or 4 emergency department  
Vacation |  4 weeks |  Scheduled at residents' request  
  


**PGY2 Rotations:**

The PGY2 year solidifies the core family medicine competencies and starts to
integrate the enhanced skills in emergency medicine.  This model of
longitudinal experience allows the resident to consolidate skills and
knowledge through dedicated ED shifts during family medicine and most
specialty rotations. Full-day Family Medicine academic curriculum is typically
delivered weekly throughout the Core Family Medicine placement. Half-day
Emergency Medicine academic curriculum is typically delivered weekly
throughout the academic year. PBSGL is held during core academic Fridays
throughout the year.

**PGY2 Clinical Learning Experiences**

**Placements** |  **Duration** |  **Location/Notes**  
---|---|---  
Cardiac Care Unit |  4 weeks |  Including inpatient CCU rounds, emergency and inpatient consultation services  
Core Family Medicine |  16 weeks |  Experience will include comprehensive family medicine 2.5 days/week and 30+ half day longitudinal clinical experiences in a combination of orthopedics, psychiatry, plastics and emergency medicine, among others.  Including 1 shift/week min in the ER. During Specialty CLEs, resident will attend one day back every other week in FM preceptor's office.  
Geriatric Medicine |  4 weeks |  Mainly via outpatient settings  
Palliative Care |  4 weeks |  In-patient care, Hospice care, home consultations and emergency consultation service  
Community Family Medicine |  16 weeks |  Residents will return to the same small Maritime community from Year 1 continuing to work with their family medicine preceptor and in the emergency department.  Divided into two – 8 weeks durations, one in the fall and one in the late spring.  Residents will be involved in comprehensive family medicine via office work, ER shifts, inpatient rounds, home visits, long-term, ambulatory care etc.  
Emergency Medicine |  4 weeks |  Core experience: combination of day, evening and night shifts. During some Specialty CLEs, may be required to work at least one 8hr ER shift weekly.  
Elective(s) |  4 weeks |     
Vacation |  4 weeks |  Scheduled at residents' request  
  
** **

**PGY3 Rotations:**

In** ** the third year of this program, there is a greater focus on
consolidating skills in emergency medicine, critical care and family medicine.
Usually, PGY3 Emergency Medicine curriculum sessions are delivered weekly
throughout the academic year and SOS (Sharp Object Sessions) are held during
first two weeks of EMER clinical learning experience. PGSBL is held during
mandatory Friday academic throughout the year.

**PGY3 Clinical Learning Experiences**

**Placements** |  **Duration** |  **Location/Notes**  
---|---|---  
Emergency Medicine |  16 weeks |  Core experience; combination of day, evening and night shifts; includes two weeks of intensive training in emergency medicine procedural skills and PoCUS related work  
Core Family Medicine |  8 weeks |  2 days/week Office with primary preceptor and 2 shifts/week ED. During specialty CLEs, residents will attend one day back every other week in FM preceptor office.  
Intensive Care Unit |  8 weeks |  ICU rounds, including emergency and inpatient consultation service  
Pediatric Emergency Medicine |  4 weeks |  Pediatric emergency medicine (at the IWK Health Centre, Halifax NS) alternating with Pediatric anesthesia, critical care transport team and trauma team call  
Community Family Medicine |  8 weeks |  Residents will return to one of our rural sites where they will hone their skills in comprehensive family medicine. Residents will develop schedule incorporating office clinic time, ER shifts and experiences in other areas where felt needed  
Cardiac Care Unit |  4 weeks |  Including inpatient CCU rounds, emergency and inpatient consultation services  
Selective(s) |  4 weeks |  Will be targeted as a trauma rotation away via sites such as St. Mike’s or Sunnybrook in Toronto (location TBD) with focus on TTL experience and trauma related procedural skills  
Vacation |  4 weeks |  Scheduled at residents' request  
  
* * *

# Training Sites

SITE INFORMATION

Representatives from each of the ten sites, including residents, look forward
to meeting you and introducing you to their community and our program.

_**Annapolis Valley - Monica Cumby**_

(902) 679-2657 Ext. 3300

[monica.cumby@nshealth.ca](mailto:monica.cumby@nshealth.ca)



**_Cape Breton - Inverness Site  - Natasha Phillips_**

(902) 258-1932

[natasha.phillips@nshealth.ca](mailto:natasha.phillips@nshealth.ca)



_**Cape Breton - Sydney -  Lorna Jardin**_

(902) 567-8055

[lorna.jardine@nshealth.ca](mailto:lorna.jardine@nshealth.ca)  
  

_**Cape Breton -  Integrated Family Medicine Emergency Medicine Program -
Jacquie Heading**_

(902) 567-7496

[jacquie.heading@nshealth.ca](mailto:medicaleducationcb@nshealth.ca)  



_**Fredericton -  Jolene Kazic**_

(506) 452-5705

[fmresidency.fredericton@dal.ca](mailto:melissa.pratt@nshealth.ca)



_**Halifax and South Shore - Site Administrator**_

(902) 473-4744

[fmresidency.halifax@dal.ca](mailto:fmresidency.halifax@dal.ca)



**_Miramichi -  Tara Black  
_**

(506) 623-3357

[tara.black@horizonNB.ca ](mailto:tara.black@horizonNB.ca)



**_Moncton - Susan Gallant  
_**

(506) 857-5660

[fmresidency.moncton@dal.ca](mailto:fmresidency.moncton@dal.ca)



_**North Nova - Glenda Gilliland** _

(902) 890-5603

[glenda.gilliland@nshealth.ca](mailto:glenda.gilliland@nshealth.ca)



_**Prince Edward Island - Verna McInnis  
**_

(902) 894-2536

[fmresidency.pei@dal.ca](mailto:fmresidency.pei@dal.ca)



**_Saint John Site and SJ Integrated Family Medicine Emergency Medicine
Program - Joan Wilkins_**

(506) 649-2582

[fmresidency.saintjohn@dal.ca](mailto:fmresidency.saintjohn@dal.ca)



_**South West Nova - Heather Blackler  
**_

(902) 742-3542 Ext. 1690

[fmresidency.swn@dal.ca](mailto:fmresidency.swn@dal.ca)

_ _

* * *

# Additional Information

The 1st (first) iteration will encompass various streams. You must be a
Canadian Citizen or Permanent Resident of Canada to apply to the streams. One
stream will be for Canadian Medical School Graduates (CMG) who have not had
previous post-MD/clinical training. The second stream will be open to
International Medical School Graduates (IMG) who have not had previous
Canadian post-MD/clinical training. There will be IMG positions available at
each of the following teaching sites: Annapolis Valley, Cape Breton, Halifax,
North Nova, South West Nova in Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island and Moncton
and Saint John in New Brunswick.

**All international medical school graduates matching  in the first iteration
will be required to sign a return of service contract with the Ministry of
Health.  The return for service contract for the position in Prince Edward
Island will be in Prince Edward Island; for the positions in Annapolis Valley,
Cape Breton, South West Nova, North Nova, and Halifax will be in Nova Scotia;
and the positions in Saint John and Moncton will be in New Brunswick--all in
Family Medicine.**

The application requirements for International Medical School Graduates
applying in both the first and second iteration are the same.



**Important Deadline for Site Selection:  
** Please note that the deadline for adding or dropping a site to your list of
choices is _**February 3, 2025**_. Be sure to finalize your site preferences
before this date, as no changes can be made after the deadline.

* * *

# FAQ

_**How can I find out more about the program?**_

We encourage you to contact any of the Associate Chief Residents in our
program. Email addresses are available through our web site
[http://fmr.medicine.dal.ca](http://fmr.medicine.dal.ca/residents.htm)

**_  
How do I get more information about scheduling electives?_**

Undergraduate electives are offered in all areas of Family Medicine. Contact
the Dalhousie Family Medicine Education office at
[dfm.undergrad@dal.ca](mailto:dfm.undergrad@dal.ca) if you are interested in
arranging an undergraduate elective._**  
  
  
Am I required to have a vehicle?**_

Successful candidates are required to have a reliable form of transportation
for commuting to **all**  clinical rotations and educational experiences.
Please note, public transit is not available in all regions across the
Maritime provinces and therefore may not be a feasible option for travelling
to the various locations where clinical and educational experiences take
place.

_**  
  
What is the current resident contract like?**_

Visit the Maritime Resident Doctors website at
[www.maritimeresidentdoctors.ca](https://www.maritimeresidentdoctors.ca/)

_**  
  
Do Residents travel extensively?**_

Travel is determined by the choices residents make for electives and range
from extensive to minimal.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27121?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27121