#  McMaster University - Orthopedic Surgery - Hamilton

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 27, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Vickas Khanna  

Address Orthopaedic Surgery  
McMaster University Orthopaedic Surgery  
50 Charlton Ave. East, G845  
Hamilton, Ontario, L8N 4A6  

905 522-1155 x32267

Websites of Interest [ Department of Surgery ](http://www.macortho.ca)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Vickas Khanna

Title: Program Director

Email: aubryp@mcmaster.ca

Phone: 9055221155

32267

  

Name: Dr. Waleed Kishta

Title: Associate Program Director

  

Name: Paulette Aubry

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: aubryp@mcmaster.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/).  It is important to review the
requirements carefully.

To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit:
<https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/>

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

**Additional criteria for IMGs:**

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Please ensure that your application is complete following the listed criteria.



* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site.**

**CELPIP:  **must have minimum score of 9 in each of the four skills in the
same sitting

**IELTS ACADEMIC:  **must have minimum score of 7.0 in each of the four skills
in the same sitting

**Letter of language proficiency** is a letter from your Dean attesting that
your medical school program of instruction was completed solely in English or
French.

**OET MEDICINE** : must have minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in
the same sitting

**TOEFL IBT:  **must have minimum score of 93 with a minimum score of 24 on
the speaking section. The **TOEFL iBT Home Edition**  will be accepted as a
substitute for the TOEFL iBT.

Examinations

Required

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

The National Assessment Collaboration (NAC) Objective Structured Clinical
Examination (OSCE) is mandatory for all IMGs. The results are required by the
file review opening date.

MCCQE Part I

* Score

Reference documents

Required

Orthopedic Surgery structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Does not have to be a passport photo.

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Submitted applicant files will be read and ranked by a volunteer pool of
orthopaedic faculty surgeons, residents and the Program Director. The selected
IMG candidates will be invited for an interview.



* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 30, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: The date for our virtual interviews is
Thursday, January 30, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The selected candidates will be
notified of the interview schedule and all other pertinent information via
email from the MacOrtho Residency Office.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates will be graded on the content of their personal letter; the
strength of their references; their academic record and the demonstration of
their interest in orthopedic surgery during their interview.

## Program goals

Our mission is to educate and empower the surgeons of tomorrow with the
capacity for evidence based clinical care, critical thinking, creativity,
professionalism and a proclivity towards lifelong learning.  The development
of these attributes surrounds a core of technical training in the art and
science of orthopedic surgery.  We aim to be responsible to our patients by
providing exemplary patient care by using best evidence to guide our decisions
and leading innovation in education and research.

## Selection process goals

The skills we look for in a candidate include being a team member, effective
decision-making, the ability to be organized as well as being an excellent
communicator to our patients, team members and other health professionals.

Residents will be expected to be motivated and dedicated in applying
themselves to the mastery of orthopaedic surgery including all CanMEDS
competencies: medical expert, collaborator, communicator, professional, health
advocate, leader and scholar. This includes continual case-based study and
appropriate preparation for operative and clinic based experiential learning
within the context of evidence based clinical practice.

Residents are in training to become life-long learners and practitioners of
the art and science of orthopaedic surgery.

## File review process

Review team composition : The Selection Committee is composed of residents and
faculty members including the Program Director and the Associate Program
Director within the Division of Orthopedic Surgery.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  List recent electives, current research projects/publications, awards.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Where did the applicant complete an elective? With who? Is there a reference letter provided? The absence of an elective at McMaster will NOT negatively impact the evaluation of your application.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Please provide scores of recent exams if completed   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Is the applicant involved in any community/volunteer work? What else do they enjoy doing?   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Is the applicant on any committees or taking on any leadership roles?   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Please provide a recent MSPR.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  The letter should include why the applicant wants to be an orthopedic surgery resident at McMaster and what strengths they would bring to the program. It should also demonstrate why MacOrtho is a good fit for them.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  The program will only accept a Structured Reference Letter as part of the application. No other reference letters will be considered. We ask that three Structured Reference Letters be submitted. The letters should be from a recent elective or preceptor that worked with the applicant and does NOT necessarily have to come from an orthopedic surgeon to be considered.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Is the applicant involved in research? All publications/presentations should be listed.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Please provide a recent transcript.   
Other file component(s) |  Here is the link to the Structured Reference Letter: https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/orthopedic-structured-reference-letter.pdf   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We understand that not everyone will have been able to do an elective here at
McMaster, even if desired.   The program will take this into consideration and
this will NOT affect your application.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence of team work either in academics or in the community.   
Collegiality |  Evidence of successful group or team work.   
Communication skills |  Verbal skills - we evaluate this in person and through your letters of reference.   
Health advocacy |  We do not evaluate this interview component.   
Interest in the discipline |  Evidence of involvement in orthopedics (electives, research).   
Interest in the program |  Elective work either on or offsite.   
Leadership skills |  Evidence of leadership skills in both the community and academics.   
Professionalism |  Evaluated throughout the interview process.   
Scholarly activities |  Evidence of academic success and research experience.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

We are committed to creating an environment conducive to the educational needs
of the orthopaedic trainee. This education will not only include evidence
based clinical practice of medical expert knowledge and skills within the
realm of orthopaedic surgery, but will also reflect the core guiding CanMEDS
competencies of professionalism, communication, collaboration, scholarship,
management and health advocacy. We will demonstrate a sound understanding of
the MacOrtho orthopaedic program objectives and to individualize these
objectives where possible, to the individual learning needs of our trainees.

Residents will be expected to be motivated and dedicated in applying
themselves to the mastery of orthopaedic surgery including all CanMEDS
competencies: medical expert, collaborator, communicator, professional, health
advocate, manager and scholar. This includes continual case-based study and
appropriate preparation for operative and clinic based experiential learning
within the context of evidence based clinical practice.

Residents are in training to become life-long learners and practitioners of
the art and science of orthopaedic surgery.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The McMaster program provides the necessary requirements of training to
qualify graduates to write the Royal College of Physician and Surgeons of
Canada examination and become independent practitioners.  The program is
structured to meet the qualifications required at the final Royal College
evaluation.

The curriculum is based on CBD: _**Transition to Discipline, Foundations of
Discipline, Core and Transition to Practice.**_   All EPAs must be achieved in
order to successfully complete the program and write the Royal College exam.



_**Transition to Discipline:**_   As a PGY1, it is expected that you will
complete all EPAs in _Transition to Discipline_ in the first six months of
residency.  The _Foundations_ EPAs can also be completed in this first year.

  * Rotations required: 11 blocks of orthopedic surgery, one block of trauma and one block of perioperative medicine. 



_**Foundations of Discipline**_ :  As a PGY2, it is expected that all EPAs in
_Foundations_ be successfully completed at the end of PGY2 year.

  * Rotations required:  3 blocks of pediatrics; 3 blocks of arthroplasty; 1 block of trauma; 3 blocks of sports; 2 blocks of ICU and 1 block of vascular.



_**Core**_ :  As a PGY3 and PGY4, it is expected that all EPAs in _Core_ be
successfully completed at the end of PGY4 year.

  * Rotations required:  PGY3 year:  2 blocks of elective or community rotation (alternate can be completed in PGY4 year); 3 blocks of foot and ankle; 3 blocks of upper extremity; 3 blocks of spine and 2 blocks of general orthopedics.
  * Rotations required:  PGY4 year: 2 blocks of elective or community rotation (alternate can be completed in PGY3 year); 2 blocks of arthroplasty; 3 blocks of trauma; 3 blocks of pediatric surgery and 3 blocks of oncology.



**_Transition to Practice_** :  In your final year as a PGY5, it is expected
that all EPAs be successfully completed in _Transition to Practice_** _._**

  * Rotations required:**_  _**12 blocks of general orthopedics and 1 study block** _._**

* * *

# Training Sites

McMaster University postgraduate programs are integrated in cooperation with
the affiliated teaching hospitals and therefore there is no primary base
hospital. Facilities used for mandatory or elective rotations include:
Hamilton Health Sciences (which is comprised of the Hamilton General Hospital,
the Juravinski Hospital and the McMaster Children's Hospital) and St. Joseph's
Healthcare.



* * *

# Additional Information

**Quick Facts**

McMaster faculty coined the term “Evidence-Based Medicine” and we remain the
world leader in EBM. The Division of Orthopedics hosts the only Canada
Research Chair in Orthopedics and McMaster Orthopedic faculty are currently
directing the three largest prospective randomized clinical trials ever
conducted in our field.

PGY1 includes ATLS and AMLS courses and PGY2 includes enrollment in the
Principles and Practice in Clinical Research course.

McMaster University at the St. Joseph's site is the first centre in Canada to
offer Robotic assisted total joint arthroplasty.

We are pioneers in education with virtual reality options.  



* * *

# FAQ

**How many residency positions are available for 2025-26?**

The program has 5 CMG positions and 1 IMG position available starting July 1,
2025.



**Is there funding available to attend courses and/or conferences during my
residency training?**

Yes, the program has available funds for each resident at each level of
training, except for PGY1s as the program pays for their ATLS and ACLS
courses.  These funds can be used to attend the COA (Canadian Orthopedic
Association) meetings, various courses and other conferences that are
available to residents.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26327?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26327