#  University of Alberta - Neurosurgery - Edmonton

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Mike Chow  

Address 2D2 Walter Mackenzie Health Sciences Center  
8440 - 112 Street  
Edmonton, Alberta, T6G 2B7  

Work

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Division of Neurosurgery
](https://www.ualberta.ca/surgery/divisions/neurosurgery)  
[ Surgical Simulation Program
](https://www.ualberta.ca/surgery/research/dsssp/index.html)  
[ UofA Dept of Surgery Website ](https://www.ualberta.ca/surgery/index.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Michael Chow

Title: Program Director

  

Name: Pam Weber

Title: Program Administrator

Email: nsurgpg@ualberta.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

CASPER Requirement

All applicants to our residency program at the University of Alberta are
required to complete the CASPER (Computer-Based Assessment for Sampling
Personal Characteristics) test, to assist with our selection process.
Successful completion of CASPER is mandatory in order to maintain admission
eligibility. CASPER is an open-response, situational judgment test that
evaluates aspects of applicants’ social intelligence and professionalism such
as ethics, empathy, problem-solving and collaboration. For more information on
the test, go to
[https://takealtus.com/casper/.](https://takealtus.com/casper/) CASPER scores
are only valid for a single admissions cycle and for the test type for which
you have taken the test. For example, if an applicant took the Canadian Post
Graduate Medical Education test for the CaRMS Round 1 match, the same CASPER
score will be considered for the Round 2 match.

Your CASPER assessment result is sent directly to our program/CaRMS from
Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights permission to
share your results with CaRMS.

* * *

# Return of Service

There are no return of service requirements at the University of Alberta.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Please see the Alberta [provincial
criteria.](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/)

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) are required to provide proof of
English language proficiency as determined by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) who completed their medical education in
Quebec or at the University of Ottawa (French Stream) are required to provide
proof of English language proficiency as determined by the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

CMGs who completed their medical education at the University of Ottawa must
indicate on their application which stream they completed (either French or
English).

_For more information on the CPSA English language requirements, please visit
the  [CPSA website](https://cpsa.ca/physicians/registration/english-language-
proficiency/)._

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three (3) reference letters are required.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

Please submit abstracts only. Complete publications will not be reviewed.

Self-identification questionnaire

CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)

The University of Alberta recognizes the importance of diversity, equity,
inclusivity, decolonization, and indigenization (EDIDI) and is committed to
the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry’s policy on anti-racism.

Further, the University is committed to implementing the Truth and
Reconciliation Commission calls to action that are relevant to education and
medicine.The pursuit of diversity and equitable opportunities is a core value
that guides our selection practices.

The University encourages applications from underrepresented groups, including
Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women,
persons of a minority gender identity or sexual orientation, and individuals
who would contribute to the diversity of the medical community. The CaRMS
Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) is an optional form that candidates
can fill out.

Our program is choosing to integrate the CSIQ into our selection process as
part of the file review process and it may be used to aid interview selection
or adjust final rankings.

Information gathered via the CSIQ will only have a neutral or positive impact
on applications. That is, it can be used to address issues of program priority
and diversity within the program but cannot be used to disadvantage or
disqualify applicants. The CSIQ can be used to address issues of program
priority and diversity within the program but cannot be used to disadvantage
or disqualify applicants. Information gathered via the CSIQ will only have a
neutral or positive impact on applications.

If there are concerns about this process or about the use of information
disclosed in the CSIQ, applicants can direct these concerns directly to the
CaRMS Privacy Officer at [compliance@carms.ca](mailto:compliance@carms.ca).
For more information, please go to[ https://www.carms.ca/news/the-carms-self-
identification-questionnaire/ ](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/4415780523405-What-is-the-CaRMS-self-identification-questionnaire-
CSIQ "https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/4415780523405-What-is-the-
CaRMS-self-identification-questionnaire-CSIQ")

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 28, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: All interviews will be virtual.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will be conducted by
faculty members and Neurosurgery residents, and will cover a variety of topics
including some clinical decision making scenarios. Candidates will rotate
through multiple interview stations.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

-Strong interest and dedication in the field of neuroscience and interest in neurosurgical research endeavors.

All applicants to the Neurosurgery residency program at the University of
Alberta are required to complete the CASPER (Computer-Based Assessment for
Sampling Personal Characteristics) test, to assist with our selection process.
Successful completion of CASPER is mandatory in order to maintain admission
eligibility. CASPER is an open-response, situational judgment test that
evaluates aspects of applicants' social intelligence and professionalism such
as ethics, empathy, problem-solving and collaboration. For more information on
the test, go to[
https://takealtus.com/casper/.](https://takealtus.com/casper/) Casper scores
are only valid for a single admissions cycle and for the test type for which
you have taken the test. For example, if an applicant took the Canadian Post
Graduate Medical Education test for the CaRMS Round 1 match, the same Casper
score will be considered for the Round 2 match.

## Program goals

The primary objective of the Neurosurgical program at the University of
Alberta is to develop graduates of excellent moral and ethical character who
possess the factual knowledge, surgical technical skills and motivation
required to successfully practice neurosurgery in Canada or elsewhere.
Candidates are selected and trained for careers in either academic or
community neurosurgery.  This initial formal period of training represents
only one phase in the evolution of a profession characterized by continuing
self-evaluation and self-education.

## Selection process goals

The successful applicant will demonstrate a strong work ethic and a true
commitment to neurosurgery.  Critical thinking is important.  Strong
interpersonal skills and a collaborative approach is vital.  Given the nature
of the specialty, the ability to perform under pressure is a requirement.
Strong visuo-spatial skills and fine motor skills are necessary.
Professionalism in previous interactions will be assessed.

## File review process

Review team composition : The applicant files are reviewed by paired members
of the RPC. All members of the RPC are involved. An objective score will be
used to decide on a shortlist of applicants invited for an interview.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Advanced degrees, publications and presentations (emphasis on neurosurgery topics)   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Electives will not be considered a requirement   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  CASPer exam required.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Interests outside of neurosurgery considered as a indication of how "well-rounded" applicant is   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Not required but useful to have if present   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Will review for red flags   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Insight into motivation valuable   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Insight into applicants' strengths and weakness, a very important factor   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Sign of academic productivity may predict future success in residency   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  only cursorily reviewed for red flags   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Our program does not favour residents who do electives
at our site or numerous electives in our specialty. We consider and value
applicants with broad clinical experiences.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

**Electives will not be considered a requirement.**



## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work with others   
Collegiality |  Relationships with others vital for success in residency   
Communication skills |  Vital component because it is the downfall of many unsuccessful residents   
Health advocacy |  Demonstration of this will be considered.   
Interest in the discipline |  Neurosurgery as the first choice is important in applicant consideration.   
Interest in the program |  Motivation to come to Edmonton will factor into ranking   
Leadership skills |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Professionalism |  Critical and has been the downfall of previous unsuccessful residents   
Scholarly activities |  Demonstration by publications is helpful but not critical   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

1) Residents are exposed to a robust and diverse clinical experience at three
sites: University Hospital, Royal Alexandra Hospital and the Stollery
Children's Hospital. (Over 2500 clinical operative cases are done annually).

2) The University of Alberta Neurosurgical Residency Program offers a unique
PGY 4 experience. Residents are able to explore research interests, pre-
fellowship interests and/or further clinical experience (academic or
community) during this year.

3) A formal academic schedule exists for Neurosurgery residents, including
Gamma Knife Rounds, Journal Club, Neuroscience Grand Rounds, Quality Assurance
Rounds, and Neurosurgery case rounds and didactic rounds.  Regular sessions in
our Simulation Lab are scheduled throughout the year.

4) Residents gain experience in all aspects of subspecialty Neurosurgery and
new innovative Neurosurgical equipment. (Complex spine, neuro-endoscopy, deep
brain stimulation, endovascular neurosurgery, functional neurosurgery and
gamma knife).

5) Residents receive expense coverage for meetings, microneurosurgical
symposiums and review courses.

Residents are encouraged to attend at least one Neurosurgical meeting or
symposium per year and are expected to develop fluency in case and paper
presentations at the weekly Neuroscience Grand Rounds.  A didactic schedule of
lectures given by faculty runs throughout the year to cover the entire
curriculum in a 3 year cycle.  Written exams after each block are administered
as well as a practice oral exam yearly.  The Annual National in-training
written exam is also administered.  Practice oral examinations are offered by
faculty members in preparation for the Royal College Neurosurgical Fellowship
Examinations for those residents in their final year of training.

Upon completion of training, graduates from the University of Alberta become
competent in performing the full spectrum of Neurosurgical practice.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 6 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Curriculum**

The primary objective of the Neurosurgical program at the University of
Alberta is to develop within a six-year time frame, graduates of excellent
moral and ethical character who possess the factual knowledge, surgical
technical skills and motivation required to successfully practice Neurosurgery
in Canada or elsewhere. Candidates are selected and trained with a view to
careers in academic neurosurgery and are made aware that this initial formal
period of training represents only one phase in the evolution of a profession
characterized by continuing self-evaluation and self-education.

**Electives**

Interprovincial and international electives are available throughout the
course of training. Recently residents have done clinical electives in
developing countries (Kenya) and in community neurosurgery centres in Canada
(Victoria, Kingston).  Research electives have taken place internationally
(Finland).  Residents have also completed research years at the Stanford
University, Barrow Neurological Institute in Phoenix, Arizona and with the
Endovascular group at the University of Montreal.

  
  

**Research**

  
The Division of Neurosurgery at the University of Alberta has been active in
clinical and basic scientific research, offering Masters and Doctoral
programs. Our research endeavors currently include the study of:

  * Aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage
  * Blood transfusion in subarachnoid hemorrhage
  * Clinical Trials of aneurysm treatment
  * Dendritic cell immunotherapy for malignant gliomas
  * Quality of life measures in brain tumour patients
  * Neuroanatomical impact of radiation therapy in the treatment of glial tumours
  * Cervical spondylotic myelopathy
  * Spinal cord regeneration
  * Management of spinal cord injury
  * Hydrocephalus Research
  * Use of diffusion tensor imaging in the intra-operative MRI environment
  * Neuroimaging biomarkers of response to surgical treatment of epilepsy and trigeminal neuralgia
  * Neuroimaging features of treatment-resistant depression
  * Impact of deep brain stimulation therapy on speech and language function
  * Quantitative assessment of gait and postural instability in Parkinson's disease patients undergoing DBS

 MSc ( 1-2 year ) or PhD (3 years) programs are available to interested
residents. The basic science laboratories are housed in the new Heritage
Medical Research Building adjacent to the University Hospital . For further
information regarding our research endeavors please review our Neurosurgery
website. Annual research projects are completed under the supervision of a
preceptor with the goal to present at the annual Alberta Neurosurgical Society
Meeting, the Department of Surgery Research Day and/or the national meeting.

  
  

**PGY-1**

The PGY-1 year is part of the Surgical Foundations Program at the University
of Alberta. In Neurosurgery the PGY-1 rotations are: one 28-day block of
Coronary Care Unit, one 28-day block of Emergency Medicine,  two 28-day blocks
of General Surgery, one 28-day block of Anesthesia, six 28-day blocks of
Neurosurgery, one 28-day block of Pediatric Neurosurgery and one 28-day block
of vacation.

**PGY-2**

The PGY-2 year consists of: 7 blocks of Neurosurgery at either the University
of Alberta Hospital or the Royal Alexandra Hospital, 3 blocks of ICU, 2 blocks
of Neurology and 1 block of Neuroradiology.

**PGY 3**

To fulfill Royal College requirements, in this year, the resident will spend 3
blocks on Neuropathology, 1 block on Gamma Knife and 1 block on Interventional
Neuroradiology.  The remainder of the year is spent on Clinical Neurosurgery
rotations.

**PGY 4**

This year is designated for research or may be utilized as dedicated time to
pursue a clinical elective.  If the resident desires to obtain a Masters or
PhD, additional years may be accommodated.

**PGY-5 to 6**

These final 2 years are utilized to fulfill the current requirement of 42
months on the Clinical Neurosurgical Service.  At least 12 months will be
spent as the Lead Resident.  With the shift to Competency Based evaluation,
the last 3 months will be Transition to Practice.

As residents graduate into their senior years, responsibilities will include
running the teams at the University site, presenting cases at QA rounds and
case presentation rounds, organizing schedules and running the Neurosurgery
Intensive Care Unit with the Neuro-Intensivist.

* * *

# Training Sites

Walter C. MacKenzie Health Sciences Center (University of Alberta Hospital)

Royal Alexandra Hospital

Stollery Children's Hospital

Leduc Community Hospital

Computer equipment is available for exclusive resident use with appropriate
software

Website: [Division of
Neurosurgery](https://www.ualberta.ca/en/surgery/index.html)

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27159?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27159