#  University of Saskatchewan - Anesthesiology - Regina  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 06, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Eugene Choo  

Address Provincial Department of Anesthesiology  
1440 14th Ave  
REGINA, Saskatchewan, S4P 0W5  

306-655-1193

Websites of Interest

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Ryan Pikaluk

Title: Regina Education Site Coordinator

Email: drp253@usask.ca

  

Name: Megan Fortosky

Title: Program Administrator

Email: megan.fortosky@usask.ca

Phone: 306-655-1193

  

* * *

# Important Information

Applicants are responsible for reviewing the [University of Saskatchewan
Policies for the R-1 Match](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/saskatchewan/) to determine if they meet all
requirements and eligibility criteria. Failure to meet or provide proof of any
of the stated requirements or documents may result in an applicant’s file not
being reviewed or ranked.

**Casper Test**  
All applicants must complete the Casper test. Please refer to the Examinations
section for more information.

**Licensing  
** Matched applicants must be eligible for an educational register license
with the [College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Registration___Licensure/web/Applicants/Licensure/Registration_and_Licensure_Landing.aspx?hkey=75b022f8-df64-4f34-8e2a-a09bea881787)
(CPSS) for a July 1st start date and must maintain eligibility for an
educational register license throughout their entire training program. Matched
applicants who are graduating in the spring will need to provide a copy of
their medical degree/diploma to the PGME office and the College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Saskatchewan (CPSS) prior to the start of residency training.
Any delays in providing all required documentation to CPSS may result in the
following:

  * delay in issuance of an educational register license and a delay in start of postgraduate training beyond July 1st
  * release from CaRMS match contract

**Applicants completing medical education at the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)**  are
required to submit proof of English language proficiency before the rank order
deadline to demonstrate they meet CPSS requirements. More information is
available under Supporting Documentation-Language Proficiency.

**NOTE:**  Applicants who are considering a delay to their convocation date
must be aware that a medical degree cannot be issued to a student until they
have convocated. CPSS bylaws require that new residents must have received
their medical degree prior to the commencement of residency training. Choosing
to delay convocation will affect a matched applicant’s ability to commence
their residency training program in Saskatchewan on July 1. Please refer to
the [U of S CaRMS Deferral Policy](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/carms-
deferral-of-training-start-date---match-violation-release-from-
match.php#relatedForms) for additional information.

**Credentialing**  
In order to commence and continue in Postgraduate Medical Education training
programs, matched applicants must be eligible for and maintain privileges
within the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) as determined by their
credentialing process. The Saskatchewan Health Authority requires successful
applicants to submit immunization records and a current criminal record check
as part of their pre-resident application for appointment. Applicants with
criminal records will be considered on a case by case basis by the College of
Medicine in consultation with the Health Authority.

Any delays in providing all required documentation to the Saskatchewan Health
Authority may result in a delay in the start of postgraduate training beyond
July 1st.

**Resident Boot Camp  
** All matched applicants must attend a mandatory three-day Resident Boot Camp
scheduled for late June. The purpose of the Boot Camp is to provide additional
support to trainees as they transition to residency by introducing and
consolidating baseline skills and knowledge needed to flourish during their
residency years. The program will include interactive case-based and hands-on
practice sessions. Stipends will be provided to trainees.

Attendance is required and absences are only permitted in exceptional
circumstances, with prior approval of PGME.

**Advanced Cardiac Life Support  
** Matched applicants are required to provide proof of ACLS certification
(current as of July 1, 2025) to the PGME office prior to starting their
training program. The ACLS course must be endorsed by the Heart and Stroke
Foundation of Canada and/or the American Heart Association. ACLS training that
is not certified by these two organizations and/or is completed entirely
through an online course will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for
all costs associated with obtaining ACLS certification.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

The Anesthesiology Program of the University of Saskatchewan is fully
accredited by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons.

The information on this website is intended to cover all aspects of our
Program as far as possible. If there is any additional information that you
require, please contact us and we will be happy to help you out.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

All applicants must be Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents at the time of
application and must submit a notarized/certified photocopy of one of the
accepted citizenship documents.

Proof of citizenship must be current at the time of application and expired
documents will not be accepted.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum of 7.0 in each of the components

**Language assessment document accepted:**

  1. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on paper at a test venue
  2. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on a computer at a test venue
  3. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine at Home

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum grade of B

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of 9 in all sections

Applicants may be required to provide proof of proficiency in the English
language to meet licensing requirements of the [College of Physicians and
Surgeons (CPSS) of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Licensure/Requirements_Content/English_Language_Proficiency.aspx).

Applicants who graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States,
where English is the language of instruction **are not**  required to submit
proof of English language proficiency.

**Canadian applicants with medical education from the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)  are required
**to meet the English language proficiency requirements of the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan and must complete one of the language
exams listed above.

Applicants who are required to complete a language exam must submit a valid
test score in their CaRMS application **by the deadline for submission and
assignment of applications and documents.** Applicants who do not provide
acceptable proof of language proficiency, if required, will not be ranked.

Applicants must meet all of the criteria in one of the IELTS, OET or CELPIP
examinations. Please note that results from examinations cannot be combined,
unless the testing institution offers a sub-test.  
NOTE: Only OET offers sub-tests. CPSS will accept sub-tests obtained within
the same 24-month period as the original OET exam was sat.

Please direct any questions about language requirements to
[della.toews@usask.ca](mailto:della.toews@usask.ca). Applicants should not
contact CPSS directly about their eligibility for licensure.

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three reference letters are required.  Reference letters from practicing
anesthesiologists are preferred. However, letters from senior anesthesia
residents are also acceptable.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Please upload a passport style photo and include with your application to our
program.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  600

  

As a vital part of the application process, we request all prospective
residents to submit a personal statement that not only reflects their
dedication to the field of anesthesia but also their suitability for our
program.

 In your personal statement, please directly address the following:

**Learning Style and Program Alignment** : Describe your optimal learning
style. How do you learn best? Be specific about the strategies or environments
that enhance your learning. Subsequently, identify the characteristics or
offerings of our Anesthesia Residency Program that align with your learning
preferences. How do you believe these elements of our program will aid in your
growth and learning throughout your residency? (300 words)

**Challenges in Anesthesia** : The field of anesthesia presents a set of
unique challenges, both clinical and interpersonal. Please outline what you
perceive to be some of the most pressing challenges in anesthesia today.
Provide a specific example from your medical training or previous experiences
that demonstrates how you faced and overcame a related challenge. This example
should give insight into how you will navigate similar challenges in your
anesthesia career. (300 words)

Please ensure that your personal statement is written clearly and concisely
and is no more than 600 words in length.

**_Optional_**  

In our commitment to a comprehensive evaluation of every applicant, we provide
an opportunity for you to address specific aspects of your academic and
professional journey. If you feel the selection committee would benefit from
elaboration on unique aspects of your situation, please explain in your
statement.  

Examples include but are not limited to:

**Unsatisfactory Performances** : Please explain any unsatisfactory
performances during medical school.

**Reapplication to our Program**: If this is not your first time applying to
our program, please explain what has changed since your previous application
and what you have learned from that experience.

**Failure to match in previous CaRMS Iteration**: If you failed to match to a
residency training program in a previous iteration of CaRMS, kindly discuss
why you believe this occurred, detail what has changed since that application
and share what you have learned from the experience.

**Leaves of absence**: Please provide an explanation for any leaves of absence
that may have occurred during your medical school training.

Your response to the above questions will **not** count toward the word limit
of the personal statement. However, we kindly ask that your explanations
remain concise and not exceed 300 words.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

We use Standardized File Reviews in conjunction with a hybrid interview format
in assessing applicants. Only applicants short-listed after the Standardized
File Reviews are invited for a Personal Interview.

We acknowledge that the time of the Personal Interviews is a stressful one for
the applicants. We therefore do our best to minimize any stress by making the
process as friendly and personable as possible.

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be virtual in nature and
will take place on January 26th, 2025  
  
Candidates applying for both sites (Saskatoon and Regina CMG streams) will be
interviewed once. During the CaRMS rank process, each site will be ranked
separately.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All interviews will be virtual for
the 2025 R-1 match.  
  
On the date of the interview, the Program Director will give a comprehensive
and informative presentation about the program. Applicants will have ample
opportunities for informal discussions with residents and faculty.  
  
A virtual social gathering will be organized for the applicants with our
residents and faculty in conjunction with the principal interview date,
typically the night before. Details will be provided along with interview
invitations.  
  
Applicants will be interviewed by a panel consisting of faculty from both
sites as well as resident interviewers. This year, our program has elected to
utilize a hybrid model consisting of several shorter panel interview sessions.  
  
Exposure to anesthesiology in the form of electives, etc. is an asset;
however, the candidate must be able to convince the interviewers that they
understand the positive and less positive aspects of a career in
anesthesiology.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Our program seeks insightful individuals who are genuinely interested in and
knowledgeable about the desirable (and less desirable) aspects of practice in
the field of anesthesiology. We place the highest emphasis on personal and
professional integrity. We aim to select candidates that recognize the
importance of accountability, are committed to their own learning, and devoted
to the care of their patients. We regard our residents as part of our extended
family and do our best to live up to this commitment. Intellectual curiosity,
an interest in academic and research related endeavours, and an excellent work
ethic are also highly prized in our Program.

## Program goals

Our program strives to train physicians that demonstrate exceptional
interpersonal skills, clinical skills, research experience and academic
excellence. We aim to cultivate a culture of critical self-reflection and
instill trainees with a strong growth-oriented mindset and seek candidates
that demonstrate an aptitude for learning, a keen sense of insight and self-
reflection, as well as a growth-oriented mindset.

## Selection process goals

The primary goal of the selection process is to identify candidates that
demonstrate an aptitude for learning, a keen sense of insight and self-
reflection, as well as a growth-oriented mindset. In addition, candidates with
experiences that highlight the following skills and traits are also deemed
desirable:

  * Resiliency and adaptability to a demanding residency training program 
  * Strong interest in Anesthesia while maintaining a well-rounded perspective and general interest in medicine 
  * Collegial and collaborative 
  * Leadership skills  

## File review process

Review team composition : Review team composition: Our review team is composed
of the Program Director, Program Administrators, CaRMS File Review Lead and
faculty members of the department. Following successful file review, selected
candidates will be offered interviews.  
  
Interviews are conducted by faculty member representatives from both Saskatoon
and Regina, as well as resident representatives. An amalgamated file review
and interview score will be used to rank candidates.  
  
The program reserves the right to adjust final rank order list based upon
program priorities.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Content of the CV is evaluated   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Academic performance, collegiality   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  All applicants must complete a CASPer exam to be eligible for consideration   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Extra-curricular activities (volunteering, sports, etc.)   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Activities that demonstrate leadership qualities   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  MSPRs are reviewed for content   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in Anesthesiology; demonstrated understanding of the field is of special interest.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Reference documents are reviewed   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research/publications are reviewed   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Demonstrated ability to collaborate   
Collegiality |  Demonstrate the ability to be collegial in multiple settings   
Communication skills |  Demonstrate the ability to effectively communicate   
Health advocacy |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Interest in the discipline |  Knowledge of the discipline is evident   
Interest in the program |  Interest in the program is evident   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrated leadership skills   
Professionalism |  Professionalism is assessed in all facets of the interview process   
Scholarly activities |  Previous examples of scholarship can be discussed   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

This program at the University of Saskatchewan is a fully accredited
Anesthesia training program, and offers opportunities across three major adult
hospitals, a children’s hospital, as well as exposure to anesthesia in a
community and rural setting. Our program values self-directed learners where
residents have autonomy with case selection and electives that suit their
educational interests.  

Research is integrated at the program level and considered a requirement for
completion of CBD. The program has in-house research support including
multiple PhD researchers and statistical support. The program provides
protected academic time to support resident research. Residents are strongly
supported and encouraged to present their research at conferences. Library
resources are available including access to the University of Saskatchewan’s
online electronic journal archive as well as library staff with expertise to
facilitate literature searches.  

Simulation is a significant component of the program. Residents participate in
5 specialty-specific high-fidelity simulations per year as well as other
multidisciplinary simulation sessions. In addition, a robust Point-of-care
Ultrasound curriculum has been developed and integrated into the training
program.  

The program has a highly developed wellness curriculum that has been exported
to multiple other programs. Wellness representatives from both the resident
and faculty level are integral in developing an ongoing rotation of
programming, from career and financial seminars to retreats and team-building
events. Each month, a closed session between residents and the program
director are held. Known as ‘Bear pit’, these sessions provide a confidential
forum for discussion of intimidation and harassment issues as well as areas of
continued program improvement. Many of the positive changes that have bettered
our program have been initiated and implemented as a direct result of Bear
Pit.  

Electives are strongly encouraged and supported, particularly for those
interested in exploring further subspecialty training. The absence of
anesthesia fellows locally allows for an abundance of hands-on learning
opportunities.  

Rotational and daily assignments are geared toward clinical and academic
learning objectives. The program has a high degree of resident autonomy in
identifying and meeting educational needs, with resident-led rotational
scheduling and daily assignments under faculty supervision.

Our current Regina faculty includes approximately 35 FRCPC (Fellow of the
Royal College of Physicians of Canada) anesthesiologists, many with
subspecialty training in a variety of areas including cardiac, trauma,
pediatrics, obstetrics, and medical education, to name a few. Our program is
considered medium sized, and we pride ourselves in our capacity to develop
close mentorships between faculty and our residents.  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Program Curriculum

Our five-year training program is fully accredited by the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. While complying with specialty training
requirements, we strive to individualize rotations and electives according to
resident needs and career goals.

In July 2017, our Program fully implemented Competency Based Education and
follows the Royal College CBD framework.  

We follow 4-week blocks for rotational scheduling.

### **Transition to Discipline**

The initial stage of training at our program begins with a month-long
introduction to our program, the discipline of Anesthesia, as well as the CBD
framework. Known as ‘Boot Camp,’ this robust training period is comprised of
clinical, didactic, and simulation experiences. Overall, Boot Camp programming
has received highly positive reviews from previous cohorts.  

All residents are guaranteed to experience a minimum of one block of general
anesthesia before transitioning to off-service rotations.  

**Foundations and Core**

Foundations and Core comprise the bulk of training time during the residency
program. Rotations are based upon the National Curriculum for Anesthesia and
designed to maximize opportunities for progression through CBD.  

Off-service rotations (Obstetrics, Pediatrics, Medicine, etc.) are primarily
allocated to the first two years of training but interspersed with anesthesia
rotations to maintain skills and relevance to anesthesia. Pairing of related
rotations (e.g., Obstetrics ward followed by obstetrical anesthesia) furthers
this endeavor. Critical care rotations are also interspersed during the years
of training. These strategies afford the opportunity for residents to function
in junior or senior roles appropriate to their stage of training.  

Evaluations take the form of daily observations tied to specific entrustable
professional activities (EPAs) and can be triggered by either the resident or
the evaluating faculty. These observations are reviewed by the Competency
Committee, and face-to-face formal encounters with the Program Director every
six months. The residents are also provided opportunity to formulate written
evaluations of the faculty on an ongoing basis.

**Transition to Practice**

After the written exam, 5th-year residents experience more autonomy and
independence while maintaining the support of their staff. The focus during
this training stage is clinical practice, with targeted exposure to areas of
interest or unfamiliarity, as well as exposure to the routine day-to-day
practice of a well-rounded general anesthesiologist. In addition, specific
Transition to Practice call shifts have been established, during which
residents can truly hone their communication and collaboration skills
necessary to be independent anesthesiologists while still maintaining the
support of their attendings.

### Research

Research is mandatory and our program provides protected research time for
residents. R2-4 residents are expected to present annually at our Residents'
Research Day. R-5 residents are strongly encouraged to present but this is not
mandatory. Residents will complete a 500-level university course in their
first year of residency. This provides a strong background in how to prepare a
project and we often find most residents are ready to submit ethics by the end
of the first year. We have dedicated non-clinician research support within the
department. Presentations of original research at major national and
international meetings are funded and supported. Residents can become involved
in research in any clinical department, basic science group. Research mentors
are available. There is a supportive Research Team comprising Research
Director/s, Research Assistant, and various research-related resources within
the University.

**Simulation**

We have a highly active simulation program with state-of-the-art facilities
and a strong contingent of committed simulation experts. Simulation is
scheduled 5 times per academic year and covers a broad range of topics from
clinical care to multi-disciplinary scenarios. In addition, 5 CanNASC
(Canadian National Anesthesiology Simulation Curriculum) scenarios are
delivered to our senior residents each year.  

### Academic Curriculum

Residents are released from clinical duties for core educational seminars.
This academic time occurs weekly on Friday afternoons, with a full academic
day once every 3 weeks. Recent work has re-examined our didactic teaching
curriculum such that it aligns with Association of Canadian University
Departments of Anesthesia (ACUDA) objectives. Monthly journal club/research
meetings offer opportunity for residents to highlight their own research as
well as present and participate in discussion of the latest research trends in
Anesthesia. Grand Rounds / Quality Assurance Rounds / Morbidity and Mortality
Rounds are held weekly during the academic year, with staff and resident
participation. Finally, case discussion rounds are held weekly, providing a
forum for residents to hone their skills in structuring anesthetic plans.

* * *

# Training Sites

### **Saskatoon**

[Royal University
Hospital](http://www.saskatoonhealthregion.ca/your_health/ch_ruh_home.htm
"Royal University Hospital")

[Saskatoon City
Hospital](http://www.saskatoonhealthregion.ca/your_health/ch_sch_home.htm
"Saskatoon City Hospital")

[St. Paul's
Hospital](http://www.saskatoonhealthregion.ca/your_health/ch_sph_home.htm "St.
Paul's Hospital")

[Jim Pattison Children's
Hospital](https://momsandkidssask.saskhealthauthority.ca/jim-pattison-
childrens-hospital)

[Prairieview Surgical Center](https://www.clearpointhealth.ca/surgery-
centres/saskatoon-sk/)

** **

### **Regina**

[Regina General
Hospital](http://www.rqhealth.ca/finding/hospitals/general/general_about_the_facility.shtml
"Regina General Hospital")

[Pasqua
Hospital](http://www.rqhealth.ca/finding/hospitals/pasqua/p_about_the_facility.shtml
"Pasqua Hospital")

[Regina Surgical Center](https://www.clearpointhealth.ca/surgery-
centres/regina-sk/)

Children's Dental World

### ** **

### **Prince Albert**

[Victoria Union Hospital](https://paphr.ca/hospitals-clinic-
locations/hospitals-acute-care/victoria-hospital)  
  

### **Distributive Learning at the University of Saskatchewan**

The College of Medicine, while physically located in Saskatoon, is a
provincial resource in scope and in practice. Postgraduate Medical Education
at the University of Saskatchewan takes seriously its role in supporting
quality health care for all people of the province. This means training
physicians to meet the needs of, not only urban populations but also those of
rural and remote populations. In so doing, the College of Medicine has
developed, and continues to develop, rotations in other communities. These
rotations are designed to provide educational experiences to enhance the
resident's knowledge and skills and take maximum advantage of unique
educational opportunities in a diversity of communities.  

As of 2022, the Royal College requires residents to experience anesthesia in a
rural setting outside of Saskatoon and Regina. Opportunities are available at
Victoria Hospital in Prince Albert and various smaller hospitals throughout
the province. The way each program does this is not strictly prescribed by the
College of Medicine, but is determined by the Residency Program Committee,
taking into consideration the needs of their residents, and the excellent
opportunities available in other locations. These rotations continue to evolve
as we seek to build stronger and better programs that are in line with Royal
College standards, as well as the standards of teaching and mentorship
expected of our own program

Some academic/training sessions will be done in conjunction with Saskatoon
through either virtual sessions or travel to Saskatoon. High-complexity
pediatric rotations will be done in Saskatoon at the Jim Pattison Children’s
Hospital. In addition, ‘Boot Camp’ will be experienced in Saskatoon during the
first month of residency.

Extensive support is available for rotations completed at other sites in the
province. The exact nature of this support varies with location and program.
The communities involved, individual programs, the College of Medicine, and
the Ministry of Health work collaboratively to ensure residents are not
financially disadvantaged by the need to relocate. Temporary housing is
available at no expense to residents who leave their home site to complete
short term mandatory rotations at distributed sites in Saskatchewan. Please
review the [PGME Housing Guidelines](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/pgme-
housing-guidelines-pgme-housing-application-for-short-term-mandatory-
rotation.php#relatedForms) for more detailed information.

* * *

# Additional Information

Additional information can be found on our website
<http://www.medicine.usask.ca/anesthesiology>

* * *

# FAQ

About Regina and Surrounding Area

Regina has all the urban amenities without the big-city hassles. Traffic jams
are small. Most of the residents own their own homes.

For more information regarding local amenities, please visit the following
links:

[Tourism Regina](https://tourismregina.com/)  

[Tourism Saskatchewan](https://www.tourismsaskatchewan.com/)  

  
Cultural Amenities

  * [Regina Symphony Orchestra](https://reginasymphony.com/concerts/) offers numerous concerts throughout the year   
  * Opportunity for musical expression at every level, with every instrument or type of singing including German and Ukrainian classics, jazz choral club, etc. 
  * More good drama per capita than anywhere else in Canada with four professional companies plus a large fringe festival. 
  * We have a full spectrum of restaurants from family to fine dining, with some excellent ethnic restaurants. 

  * Numerous art galleries such as McKenzie Art Gallery, Assiniboia Gallery, and Art Gallery of Regina among others 
  * Many different types of festivals throughout the year 
  * Royal Saskatchewan Museum, Saskatchewan Science Centre 
  * Government House, RCMP Heritage Centre, Saskatchewan Sports Hall of Fame 

Recreational

  * Home of CFL Saskatchewan Roughriders  
  * Active and successful university sports programs 
  * Junior A hockey 
  * Many lakes close by with excellent hiking, and mountain biking trails, fishing, swimming, and paddling opportunitie 
  * Sailing and some of the world’s best lake trout fishing on the huge nearby [Lake Diefenbaker](http://www.lakediefenbakertourism.com/) 

  * White Butte Trails offers 12.7 km of regularly groomed skate and classic cross-country trails as well as hiking and biking trails in the warmer months. 
  * A bird watcher's paradise - we're on the flyway for thousands of migrating birds and home to thousands more. [Nicolle Flats](https://www.todocanada.ca/hike-these-trails-at-the-nicolle-flats-interpretive-area/) near [Buffalo Pound](https://www.tourismsaskatchewan.com/provincialpark/303/buffalo-pound-provincial-park#sort=relevancy) is a popular birdwatching and bison-viewing destination. 
  * [Wascana Centre](https://wascana.sk.ca/) offers 930 acres of bike paths and grassy areas with the Legislative building and Wascana Lake at it’s heart, it is a great place to enjoy a paddle, bbq with the family, or enjoy the outdoors.  Not to mention the many festivals that happen there throughout the year. 
  * Downhill skiing and snowboarding at nearby Mission Ridge 
  * Numerous off-leash parks 

Kid Activities

  * Safe streets 
  * Good schools: Montessori, public, various religious schools, and a very active home-schooling association 
  * Wonderful parks with spray parks and playground equipment 
  * Newly renovated [Wascana Pool](https://www.regina.ca/parks-recreation-culture/recreation-facilities/outdoor-swimming-pools-spray-pads/wascana-pool/) includes a lazy river, waterslides, climbing walls, as well as a separate lane-swimming pool 

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26306?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26306