#  University of Calgary - Family Medicine - Rural - Medicine Hat  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 26, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Martina Barton  

Address Rural Family Medicine  
Medicine Hat Regional Hospital  
666 - 5 Street SW  
Medicine Hat, AB , Alberta, T1A 4H6  

* 

* 

Websites of Interest [ Medicine Hat UofC Website
](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/departments/family-
medicine/education/postgraduate-family-medicine/future-residents/about-us-18)  
[ Tourism Medicine Hat ](https://www.tourismmedicinehat.com)  
[ Postgraduate Medical Education, University of Calgary
](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/pgme)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Rural Central Coordinator

Title: Rural Central Coordinator

Email: ruralfm@ucalgary.ca

  

Name: Dr. Sally Bolstad

Title: Medicine Hat Co-Director

Email: ssyoo@ucalgary.ca

  

Name: Dr. Nicolaas Gildenhuys

Title: Medicine Hat Co-Director

Email: nicolaas.gildenhuys@ucalgary.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Communication Preference:**

Our preferred manner of communication with all applicants is via e-mail. To
facilitate communication, all applicants must ensure that the email address on
their CaRMS application is accessible and correct.

International Medical Graduates **(IMGs)  **in Alberta are eligible to apply
to postgraduate IMG positions at the University of Calgary provided they have
been assessed as eligible by the Alberta International Medical Graduate
Program (AIMG Program).

AIMG Program eligibility is valid for the specified match year only. Please
visit the AIMG Program website [www.aimg.ca](http://www.aimg.ca) for details
on eligibility criteria and application process.

All matched applicants must meet the licensing criteria for registration with
the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA) for postgraduate
education.

**ALL matched applicants MUST successfully complete Externship before they may
proceed to residency training. Applicants must be available to start
Externship beginning of April  2025\. CPSA licensure is mandatory for
Externship. The AIMG Program will provide all successful applicants
information on this process.**

**Externship is comprised of a mix of classroom-based orientation, workshops,
academic sessions, and clinical assessment. Externship will start with an AIMG
Orientation for matched applicants. Family Medicine Externs will complete an
8-week Externship with experiences in Family Medicine and/or Internal
Medicine. **

**Please note, DFM Orientation, AIMG Orientation and EMR orientation will
occur prior to the 8-week Externship.  **

****Residency Programs determine the final outcome of Externship; the decision
is final and there is no appeal process.****







We want to ensure that you have accurate information about our program and
various opportunities to meet our residents, faculty, and leadership team. We
strongly encourage applicants to check out these platforms to learn more about
the University of Calgary Rural Family Medicine programs:

  * Our Program [website](http://calgaryfamilymedicine.ca/residency/index.php) 
  * The Department of Family Medicine’s [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/ucalgaryfammed/) and [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ucalgaryfammed?lang=en) accounts
  * The Rural Residents’ self-run [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/ucalgaryruralfm_medicinehat/) and [Facebook](https://m.facebook.com/UCalgary-Rural-Family-Medicine-104507094748997/?ref=bookmarks) accounts
  * Virtual Meet and Greets (advertised on Canada’s Portal for Residency Program Promotion-[CANPREPP](https://www.canprepp.ca/), our social media pages listed above, and our website). Please note: content at these meet and greets may overlap but each session will attempt to cover distinct topics for applicants. 
    * October 21, 2024, from 6:00pm-7:00pm MDT/MST
    * November 20, 2024, from 5:00pm-6:00pm MDT/MST



**Application to Both the Medicine Hat and Lethbridge Sites of the Rural
Family Medicine Program at the University of**** Calgary**

Although the Medicine Hat and Lethbridge sites are listed under different
CaRMS codes, the sites function as one unit underneath the auspices of the
University of Calgary. If you are applying for the Rural Program at the U of
C, we suggest that you apply to **both** the Medicine Hat and Lethbridge sites
during the CaRMS process. **Requests to add on Lethbridge to your application
may be considered after the deadline or during the interview days.**

Once the R-1 Match occurs, incoming residents will be based at the Medicine
Hat Regional Site.



## **FMProC- Requirement**

The University of Calgary Family Medicine Program is excited to be one of the
participating Family Medicine Residency Programs to use in their selection
process the FMProC (Family Medicine Professional Choices), which is a Family
Medicine-context specific Situational Judgement Test.

All applicants will be required to write FMProC for their application to be
deemed complete. More details and information about registration for FMProC
can be found here [www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com)



**Contract with the University of Calgary's Cumming School of Medicine:**

**A matched applicant must meet the appropriate criteria to start with the
Rural Residency Training Program by July 1. As stated in Clause 5.31 of the
CaRMS Applicant Contract: "The Applicant acknowledges that the faculties, in
their discretion, may disqualify the Applicant if the Applicant is unable to
begin residency training by July 1 of the year the residency training
commences". Our Program may release an applicant from the binding commitment
if the following circumstances occur:**

  * Unable to obtain an MD by July 1.
  * Unable to obtain an educational license/certificate/permit/registration from the applicable provincial Medical Regulatory Authority (The College of Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta) by July 1.

**Certifications:**

Current lifesaving certification in ACLS, & BLS are prerequisites and must be
current as of July 1, 2025.  ACLS, BLS and ATLS registration fees are
reimbursable if completed less than 90 days of starting residency.

ATLS course can be completed prior to July 1, 2025, or during the 1st year of
residency. Registration fees will be reimbursed if completed within 90 days
prior to July 1st or during training.

Please note that NRP, ACoRN and ALARM courses are provided to all rural
residents during their first year of residency. BLS, ACLS and PALS courses are
provided to all rural residents during their second year of residency.

CMPA and CPSA memberships are mandatory and must be in place before beginning
residency training.

**Alberta IMG Program (AIMG) Multiple Mini Interview (MMI) results: Multiple
Mini Interviews (MMI) scores will be shared directly to the residency programs
by AIMG. MMI results are not submitted by applicants.**

**Travel Requirements:**

It is expected that Residents in the Rural programs utilize their own
transport when travelling to and from teaching sites, within Medicine Hat, and
for rotations outside of Medicine Hat. A current driver's license and access
to a vehicle are mandatory in the U of C Rural Residency Program due to the
distances between teaching sites.



**Orientation:**

University of Calgary Family Medicine residents must complete a mandatory
Alberta Health Services Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation. More
details will be provided closer to July 2025.

Mandatory site orientation will be held on a day in late June leading up to
the start of the academic year on July 1.





* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

*

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Examination Part 1 results (I.e. score
reports) can be shared through physicianapply.ca. Please confirm you have
included the MCCQE 1 statement of results in your application package to our
Program.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

These results are shared by physiciansapply.ca to your CaRMS application.
Please confi rm you have included the NACstatement of results in your
application package to our Program.

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

**For CARMS 2025 Family Medicine Programs have adopted the**[** _Family
Medicine Structured Reference Letter_**](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/sample-FM-
structured-reference-letter-CMG.pdf)** _._****  Traditional narrative letters
will NOT be accepted. Should your referee submit a traditional letter it will
not be reviewed, and your application may be deemed incomplete. **Please
direct your referees to the [example](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/sample-FM-
structured-reference-letter-CMG.pdf) of the reference letter on the CaRMS
website. Applicants should also familiarize themselves with [how to
request](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408366069133-How-do-I-
request-a-Family-Medicine-Structured-Reference-Letter-) a Family Medicine
Structured Reference Letter on the CaRMS website.

A maximum of three (3) letters of reference can be submitted from clinical
supervisors/physician preceptors which may include Fellows. **DO NOT SEND MORE
THAN**  **THREE (3),**  as they will not be reviewed.

References may be from physicians of the candidate's choice including fellows,
but please note references from Residents, Nurse Practitioners, Physician
Assistants, Midwives, and clerks will not be accepted. Referees cannot be
related to the applicant. File review will not take place unless all three (3)
reference letters have been received by the unmasking date.

All Structured References Letters must relate to work experiences within 2
years of the anticipated training start date and be descriptive and objective.
It is essential that the referee describe the extent of their contact with the
applicant, and candidly speak to the professional attributes of the applicant.
Structured References Letters citing work with an applicant before July 1,
2023, will not be reviewed and will result in your application being deemed
incomplete.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

A personal letter is required, maximum word count 1000 words. Instead of a
traditional personal letter, please answer the following 3 questions:

1\. What doesn’t jump out from your application package (CV, transcript, MSPR)
that you want to ensure that the University of Calgary does not miss in
reviewing you for Family Medicine postgraduate training? Some students have a
background, identity, interest, or talent that is so meaningful they believe
their application would be incomplete without it. Items may include skills,
accomplishments, or experiences. Max 500 words.

2\. Describe any special interest or connection you have to a rural, regional,
or remote community based in Alberta, another part of Canada, or abroad. Max
250 words.

3\. IMG applicants to our Program have a variety of clinical experiences. Our
Program is interested in individuals who can provide hands-on care
immediately. Please describe your most recent clinical experiences, and how
they demonstrate your readiness for entry into residency. Max 250 words.



Please include an addendum (titled “Personal Letter Addendum”) at the end of
your Personal Letter explaining any poor academic performance, breech of
professionalism, course failure, leave of absence or gaps in medical training,
or if you did not graduate with your cohort. The addendum will not count
towards your work limits for your Personal Letter.



For applicants who have graduated from a medical school prior to June 2025, it
is imperative that you outline your clinical experiences since graduation
where you have had clinical decision making responsibility (i.e. not an
observership). Please include this information in an addendum as well.



Failure to submit an addendum, if the criteria apply, will result in your
application not being considered.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:  

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than English or French, you are required
to have the [document translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Custom Résumé / CV

## Please include a Curriculum Vitae that includes the name and location of
your Highschool, Undergraduate, Postgraduate and Medical School Education
Information.





Alberta IMG Program (AIMGP) Multiple Mini Interview (MMI) results

Multiple Mini Interviews (MMI) scores will be shared directly to the residency
programs by AIMG. MMI results are not submitted by applicants.

Conditionally required

Detailed outline of medical practice experience

If applicable, please submit a **detailed outline** of your clinical medical
practice experience including as much detail as possible about the **setting
of clinical practice, the type of patients encountered** (i.e., in/out
patient, general medicine or specialty), **a summary of your responsibilities
and the dates when you were in practice.**

Documentation of prior postgraduate training

If applicable, please include as much detail as possible regarding specific
rotations and degree of responsibility (i.e. junior, senior resident). If your
transcript indicates academic difficulties, please address this in your
personal letter.

Optional - will be reviewed

Alberta IMG Clinical Assessment Placement

Candidates are required to submit their CAP results (if they have been
completed in the past two years) through their CaRMS portal for review and
verification.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: Virtual interviews will allow Rural Family
Medicine interviews to be held on a variety of dates during the national
interview period. We aim to accommodate our applicants and interviewers as
best as possible.  
  
Rural Medicine Hat Interview Dates:  
  

  * January 21, 2025
  * January 23, 2025

                                          
  
**Please note, although Medicine Hat and Lethbridge are listed under two
different CaRMS program codes, your interview for either or both program(s)
will be conducted together.  **  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: The Program will notify all applicants if they have
been selected for an interview before the end of the business day on December
20, 2024. If you DO NOT hear from the program by 6:00pm MST on December 20,
2024, please contact ruralfm@ucalgary.ca

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will be conducted by a
live virtual format for all candidates. The University of Calgary Rural Family
Medicine Program will utilize Zoom to conduct its virtual interviews.  
  
Candidates will be able to choose their preferred interview date via email
sign up on a first come, first served basis. Interviews are conducted by two
interviewers (one faculty, one resident). Residents and faculty will be
present and eager to answer questions about the program.  
  
Should any technical issues arise using Zoom during an interview, a telephone
interview option will be available as a backup.  
  
We will hold a virtual social event for candidates during the interview period
to provide an opportunity for the applicants to meet our residents and ask
questions about the program.  
  
**Social Session Q &A with Residents:**  
  

  * **January 20, 2025 - 11:00am-12:00pm MDT**

Details regarding the interview process: The details of our interview process
are available on our website
<http://calgaryfamilymedicine.ca/residency/index.php/perspective->
residents/application-interviews.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The first iteration of the 2025 PGY1 CaRMS match in the University of Calgary
Rural streams will be open to CMG's, IMG's and MOTP's. IMGs who wish to apply
for postgraduate training at the University of Calgary have to participate in
the Alberta International Medical Graduate (AIMG) Program assessment process
and then apply in the designated Calgary IMG stream. MOTP's who wish to apply
for postgraduate training at the University of Calgary must apply in the
designated Medicine Hat MOTP stream.

In assessing the applicant's file and interview, we will be looking for
evidence of the applicant's demonstrated commitment to Rural Family Medicine.
We recognize that individual circumstances will dictate how this commitment is
demonstrated. We are interested in candidates who demonstrate independence and
self-direction in their learning skills and decision-making abilities, a
demonstrated commitment to Rural Family Medicine and community life, and
suitability for a small collegial program that is distributed. Our program
supports residents' development of clinical courage by the time they graduate.
Teamwork is important in rural medicine, especially the ability to work with
other allied health professionals. We would be particularly interested in
candidates who can demonstrate a sensible balance between social and community
life, and professional demands within a smaller community.

The Rural Family Medicine program encourages a broad range of elective
experiences. In addition, we have not required applicants to have done on site
electives.  We will be considering all electives in file review to ensure file
review is fair and equitable for all candidates.

<http://www.calgaryfamilymedicine.ca/residency/index.php/prospective-
residents/application-interviews>



** **



## Program goals

**Mission:**

  * Training future family physicians to serve the primary care needs of their communities

**Vision:**

  * Our graduates are ready to enter comprehensive & patient-centered practice with the ability to adapt to all settings in their community
  * Our residents are engaged learners & have the support & role-modelling to develop as resilient life-long learning Family Physicians
  * Our preceptors are fully supported & model best family-medicine practice & foster their resident's development as Family Physicians
  * Our program provides outstanding family medicine training, promotes & integrates continuous improvement & drives education innovation.



For more information on the Program goals, please visit our website at
https://[www.calgaryfamilymedicine.ca/residency/index.php/program-
info/program-
mission](http://www.calgaryfamilymedicine.ca/residency/index.php/program-
info/program-mission)



## Selection process goals

We're looking for and base our overall scoring on the following attributes:

  * Demonstrates a commitment to and suitability for Rural FM training
  * Demonstrates evidence of interest in caring for all people, ages, life stages, and
  * Exhibits ease and comfort working between different care settings and environments (including office, emergency room, home/long term care and hospital)
  * The Rural Family Medicine program encourages a broad range of elective experiences. 
  * Exhibits a passion for outreach and advocacy in the community, such as working with community partners, diverse populations, and patients experiencing barriers to care
  * Demonstrates excellent communication skills
  * Demonstrates effective work in teams, including the ability to collaborate and share care with other health care professionals
  * Exhibits evidence of research potential; contributes and supports scholarly environment
  * Exhibits self-awareness; manages influences on personal well-being and professional performance
  * Displays high professional standards 

## File review process

Review team composition : Family Medicine Preceptors, and Program Leadership.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 201 - 400  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Locations/timelines of educational experiences, participation in FM related leadership/volunteer activities and Professional memberships   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  The Rural Family Medicine program encourages a broad range of elective experiences.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  * See exam section for list of required exams.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Participation in sports, music; entrepreneurial/previous career ventures   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  FM-related leadership and advocacy activities   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic standing, strength of rotation comments, evidence of course failure(s), leave(s), breeches of professionalism   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstration of suitability for training in rural Alberta; Demonstration of adaptability and resilience.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Duration of contact with applicant, professional attributes, quality of comments Research/Publications   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Relevance and relationship to primary care/Family Medicine   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Location of education, previous degrees, evidence of course failure(s), and leave(s) of absence   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Previous electives in FM are not required for admittance to the University of
Calgary FM Residency Program.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  As per the CanMEDS role criteria   
Collegiality |  Assessed by Collaboration and Professionalism CanMEDS role questions   
Communication skills |  As per the CanMEDS role criteria   
Health advocacy |  As per the CanMEDS role criteria   
Interest in the discipline |  Suitability to and the applicants’ understanding of the role of a Family Physician is considered   
Interest in the program |  Suitability to practice in the province of Alberta is considered   
Leadership skills |  As per the CanMEDS role criteria   
Professionalism |  As per the CanMEDS role criteria   
Scholarly activities |  As per the CanMEDS role criteria   
Other interview component(s) |  Rural Suitability: self directed, maturity, flexibility, community minded.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  Collaboration between the Rural and Calgary programs will occur as
applicable.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Medicine Hat program provides amazing opportunities for one-to-one
learning in hospital rotations, emergency medicine and Family Medicine clinics
across Southern Alberta.

The core of the Program is based on extended rotations in Rural Family
Medicine settings providing 16 weeks of Rural Family Medicine in first year
and 24 weeks of Rural Family Medicine in second year.

Residents experience full scope, comprehensive care with a high, but
appropriate level of independence, and significant opportunities for training
in procedural skills and acute care.

Residents in the program have the opportunity to obtain experience and
teaching in critical care and the ICU rotation in Medicine Hat or Calgary has
been particularly well evaluated and appreciated.

High quality teaching is delivered by experienced rural & regional preceptors
in Southern Alberta.

Financial support is provided by the program through the University of
Calgary.

Resident accommodation is arranged and paid for outside their home base of
Medicine Hat. There is also reimbursement for travel expenses to academic
workshops and out-of-town rotations.

The Family Medicine experience includes a total of 40 weeks in different rural
community-based Family Medicine practices. All sites have accommodation
suitable for couples and some for small families.

**IMPORTANT: Accommodations arranged by the program do not include pets. If
you wish to bring your pets with you, accommodations while on rural rotations
will be the responsibility of the candidate.**



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Introduction:**

The Rural Family Medicine Residency Program in Medicine Hat is a stream of the
Department of Family Medicine at the University of Calgary. The emphasis in
this program is on providing learning opportunities that will enable the
resident to successfully practice in a rural centre at graduation. This occurs
in a context and practice environment that, as much as possible, reflects the
real world of Rural Practice. Following our philosophy that future Rural
Physicians should train in the setting in which they practice, Residents
choose rotations in regional and rural sites across southern and central
Alberta.

This small, decentralized program allows a focus on the individual's training
requirements. To ensure high quality training, the Medicine Hat site functions
as a unit of the Department of Family Medicine at the University of Calgary,
allowing access to the full academic resources of the parent institution.



**R1 Year:**

Throughout the first year, two 8-week rotations are scheduled at one of our
core rural sites. Each 8 week rotation is completed in a different site so
residents can experience a different flavor of rural family medicine.

The year consists of specialty rotations primarily at the regional base
hospital, maintaining the sense of family medicine context with weekly full
day sessions in a community family practice clinic.. The Family Medicine
rotations have been designed to facilitate exposure to a wide variety of acute
conditions and to the acquisition of procedural skills.  Often the Resident is
the only learner on the team ensuring access to clinical cases combined with
individualized teaching. The regional hospitals are not dependent on the
presence of house staff, with the agreeable consequence that on-call for most
rotations is from home.

The surgery rotation focuses on the safe management of surgical emergencies
and minor surgical techniques.  The emphasis in orthopaedics is on the
management of common fractures and dislocations, with ample opportunity to
attend fracture clinics as well as sports medicine clinics. There is ample
opportunity to arrange local electives or out of province elective
experiences.

  
---  
  
  |  | Rotation | Duration | Location / Notes  
---|---|---  
Family Medicine | 2 x 8 weeks | Rural sites  
Internal Medicine | 4 wks IM, 4 wks Hospitalist | Medicine Hat and Brooks  
Pediatrics | 4 weeks | Medicine Hat  
Pediatric Emerg | 4 weeks | Calgary  
Psychiatry | 4 weeks | Medicine Hat  
Orthopedic | 4 weeks | Medicine Hat  
Elective | 8 weeks | Resident's choice  
Surgery | 4 weeks | Medicine Hat  
  
  
**R2 Year:**

The main thrust of the R2 year is to develop the Resident as a rural Family
Physician, building on the skills and attitudes acquired in the first year.
The key feature of the second year is 24 weeks of experience in rural family
medicine.  Most of these sites have busy emergency rooms and active surgical
and obstetrical programs reflecting the full range of rural family practice.
This lengthy family medicine exposure in the second year provide opportunities
to experience continuity of care and the time to accomplish the requirements
of the integrated programs in care of the elderly, psychiatry, and palliative
care.

During the obstetrics rotation, preceptors will be both Family Physician and
specialist colleagues, ensuring that the skills acquired are put into an
appropriate family medicine context. This rotation has in-house call.

A 2-week anesthesia block during the 8-week emergency medicine rotation
fosters the advanced airway management skills needed for rural practice.

Four weeks of vacation may be taken throughout the year. The Family Medicine
experience consists of 40 weeks in rural communities. With the exception of
ICU in the second year, which is based in Calgary or Lethbridge, specialty
rotations generally occur in Medicine Hat. However, there is also an
opportunity to do obstetrics in High River or Canmore during second year.

Call is typically home based except for ICU and obstetrics.

  
---  
  
  |  | Rotation | Duration | Location / Notes  
---|---|---  
Family Medicine | 24 weeks | Rural site(s)  
Emergency & Anesthesia | 6 wks EM, 2 wks Anesth | Medicine Hat or Brooks  
Obstetrics & Gynecology | 8 weeks | Medicine Hat, Brooks, or High River   
ICU | 4 weeks | Medicine Hat, or Calgary  
Palliative Care | 2 weeks | Medicine Hat  
Elective | 6 weeks | Resident's choice  
  
  
**Integrated Programs:**

Many areas of care, such as Care of the Elderly and care for terminally ill
patients, are integrated into the Rural Family Medicine experience.  While
there is also a two week rotation experience for Palliative Medicine, skills
in Geriatric Medicine are gained through this integrated approach as part of
rural and other rotations.  In addition, specialists in Palliative Medicine
and Geriatrics provide academic content in monthly Academics, workshops and
seminars.  Residents learn to use community resources, such as local mental
health teams, palliative care and home care teams to assist them in providing
longitudinal care for these patients under the supervision of their Family
Medicine preceptors.

**Electives:**

Eight weeks are available for electives in the first year and six in the
second year, allowing Residents to tailor the postgraduate experience to meet
their individual needs and interests. Interprovincial and international
electives are available for 2 blocks in the 2 years, with the permission of
your home base Site Director and the Program Director. Interprovincial and
international electives will not be paid for by the UofC.

**Program Conferences and Scholarship Day:**

Two conferences (Fall and Spring) are held each year in conjunction with the
Calgary-based family medicine residents. The Conferences provide opportunities
for team-building as well as providing more time to cover topics and themes
relevant to Family Medicine with invited speakers. Costs for the conferences
are covered by the Program.

Scholarship Day is held each Spring and is an opportunity for residents to
showcase their QI projects.

The Conferences and the Scholarship Day are also an opportunity for Residents
from all streams of the program to meet up and share experiences.

Our program values the opportunity for both in-person and virtual conferences.

  
  

**Academic Programming:**  
  

Monthly academic days and rounds provide the backbone of the academic
programming. Topics are based on the recommendations by the CFPC. Residents
are involved in ensuring that the content meets their needs. The Medicine Hat
and Lethbridge regional sites generally alternate in hosting these monthly
events. All attempts are made to minimize travel away from your rotations.
Indigenous Health, Casted, ACoRN, NRP, ALARM, Bootcamp, SPHERE, and Behavioral
Medicine (communication skills, etc.) will be delivered through these
workshops and seminars. Palliative Care is currently achieved through a 1-day
seminar prior to the Palliative Care rotation in second year. Simulated Office
Oral (SOO's) exam preparation is offered 6 times throughout your residency to
prepare you for the CCFP exam. SAMP prep is offered through a seminar in
second year.

Our program values the opportunity for in-person and virtual academics.



**Research/Practice Quality Improvement:**

Completion and presentation of a QI Scholarship project and participation in
journal club are required of our Residents. Individual faculty will act as a
resource to assist with all critical appraisal and project activities. An
annual Resident Scholarship Day is held in the Spring of each year. This day
includes a combination of posters and oral presentations given by Residents.

  
  

**Third Year Programs:**

The University of Calgary Department of Family Medicine offers a variety of
third-year Enhanced Skills Programs. The purpose of these programs is to
assist Residents in developing enhanced skills in an area of interest.
Enhanced Skills Programs are offered in Care of the Elderly, Family Practice-
Emergency Medicine, Family Practice-Anesthesia, Palliative Medicine,
Addictions Medicine, Sport & Exercise Medicine, Maternal & Newborn Care,
Health Equity, Chronic Pain, and Sexual/Reproductive Health.



* * *

# Training Sites

**Location:**

 Residents have a home base in Medicine Hat where they spend 8 months of the
first year of their program. Training in rural settings outside of the
regional centre occupies 16 weeks of the first year. Trainees matching as
couples will be guaranteed a match to the same regional centre. Should a
couple match to the Rural program, all efforts will be made to ensure a
minimum disruption of family life in the rural rotations.

 The program generally takes place outside of tertiary centers with a few
exceptions (Peds Emergency and ICU experiences take place in Calgary).
Specialty experiences will occur at the Medicine Hat Regional Hospital.

 All family practice experiences will be based in the core teaching
communities of Bassano, Bow Island, Brooks, Camrose, Canmore, Cardston,
Claresholm, Crowsnest Pass, Delburne, Didsbury, Drumheller, Hanna, High River,
Innisfail, Olds, Pincher Creek, Raymond, Stettler, Sundre, Taber, and Three
Hills.

Residents based in Medicine Hat have access to all rural teaching sites.



**Medicine Hat:**

 Medicine Hat is a modest but prosperous city that sits along the South
Saskatchewan River in the southeast corner of beautiful Alberta. Its humble
beginnings have formed the foundation of grit, perseverance, ingenuity, and
strength which has seen the community prosper for the last 116 years.  In 2021
Maclean’s ranking of Canada’s Best Communities showed how that grit,
perseverance, ingenuity, and strength rocketed “The Hat” into the top 5% best
communities to live in and work remotely within Canada. Medicine Hat may be
considered a smaller city, but it has big city heart and has quickly become a
haven for new families and younger Canadians due to its affordable cost of
living, safe neighborhoods, increased access to health care and numerous
amenities.  Medicine Hat serves a community of approximately 63,271 residents;
however, the cities healthcare services, retail and other business services
cater to a surrounding population of more than 27,000 residents.

 Medicine Hat has an amazing food scene (over 300 restaurants, pubs, and
bars), 3 award-winning micro-breweries, a modern distillery, a fresh-brewed
kombucha Shop, a variety of quaint coffee shops to get your morning coffee or
grab your favorite brew from one of the many Tim Horton’s or Starbucks.  You
can experience the Arts in the form of live theatre, concerts and music
festivals or go back in time to relive the culture and heritage of the city in
the historic downtown area.  For the sports fans, you can watch some great
hockey (Tigers – WHL) and baseball (Mavericks – WCBL).  For the speed
enthusiast, you could attend one of the many dirt bike/motocross tournaments
or spend an evening at the MHRA Drag Races or the Speedway.

 With 120 days per year with temperatures above 20C and up to 330 sunny days
it is no wonder there are over 115 kms of trails, plenty of top-notch golf
courses, numerous public parks, playgrounds, and waterparks.  “Hatters” are
true water sports enthusiasts, with 5 lakes within an hour of the city limits.
You can plan a day trip to some amazing world class sites like Elkwater Lake
in the Cypress Hills where you can enjoy downhill mountain biking, kayaking,
and disc golf in the summer and downhill skiing and outside skating rinks in
the winter. Head into the Badlands of Dinosaur Provincial Park which is
Canada’s richest site for late Cretaceous fossils. Take a quick weekend trip
to Fernie (only 3.5 hours away) and visit the mountains or step back in
history and travel to the many small-town attractions like the Etzikom Museum
and Historical Windmill Centre, Irvine’s Prairie Memories Museum, or Medicine
Hat’s own Medalta Historic Clay District, to name only a few. With Medicine
Hat being a 2.5-hour drive away from Calgary you can still get away for the
day or weekend!

 Medicine Hat is a proud teaching site to many healthcare professionals and
the city has been home to the University of Calgary’s Rural Family Medicine
Residency Program since its inception in 2000 and has proudly graduated over
140 Rural Family Physicians.  Many of these physicians continue to work and
live in Medicine Hat and the surrounding communities across southern Alberta.
The 325 bed Medicine Hat Regional Hospital (MHRH) offers a full complement of
acute care, inpatient, and outpatient services, including 24-hr emergency,
obstetrics, surgical (general, orthopedic, plastics, ENT, gynecology, and
urology), hospitalist, pediatrics, Psychiatry, Palliative Care, Geriatrics,
and community health.  We have specialists who are enthusiastic teachers and
supportive of the Family Medicine Program. The Medicine Hat Regional Hospital
is unique as it is small enough to allow for the opportunity for one-on-one
hands-on learning and the independence that often come with smaller centers,
but still has many of the added resources. We also have an excellent community
of Rural Family Physicians who are committed to providing mentorship and
support to the residents. The majority of local Family Physicians run a
diverse full-scope practice providing care ranging from hospitalist, low risk
obstetrics, surgical procedures, emergency medicine and family practice
anesthesia. Our residents have exceptional access to training for in-office
procedures such as vasectomies, IUD insertions, removal of “lumps and bumps”
and joint injections through this diverse network of physicians. These
preceptors continue to happily welcome rural residents into their practice not
only as learners but in many cases, as colleagues.

 The diverse, vibrant, and spirited community of Medicine Hat is an ideal
location to learn, work and play.  Every resident who has matched to the Hat
has quickly come to call it home and many find it difficult to leave, and some
do not leave at all…  Local physicians and community members go out of their
way to make the residents and other medical learners feel welcome and part of
the Medicine Hat Family.

 The Medicine Hat team loves to welcome residents and their loved ones to the
Medicine Hat Family. We strive to understand your learning needs and provide
flexible and ongoing support to help you balance the demands of residency and
your personal life. We look forward to welcoming you into the Medicine Hat
Family and are looking forward to being a part of your journey!

Medicine Hat: (<http://www.tourismmedicinehat.com/)>

Medicine Hat Regional Hospital:
([https://www.albertahealthservices.ca/findhealth/facility.aspx?id=1000474&locale=en](https://www.albertahealthservices.ca/findhealth/facility.aspx?id=1000474&locale=en))





* * *

# Additional Information

We look forward to welcoming you to the Medicine Hat program and appreciate
being a part of your journey.

* * *

# FAQ

*

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26456?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26456