#  University of Toronto - General Surgery - Toronto

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 12

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Savtaj Brar  

Address General Surgery  
University of Toronto  
149 College Street  
Toronto, Ontario, M5T 1P5  

Work  Contact the Selection Committee at gensurg.residency@utoronto.ca

Fax

Websites of Interest [ General Surgery Residency Program, University of
Toronto ](http://surgery.utoronto.ca/residency-division-general-surgery)  
[ Division of General Surgery, University of Toronto
](http://surgery.utoronto.ca/division-general-surgery)  
[ Department of Surgery, University of Toronto ](http://surgery.utoronto.ca)  
[ Clinician Investigator Program ](https://cip.utoronto.ca/about-clinician-
investigator-program-0)  
[ Surgeon Scientist Program Website ](http://surgery.utoronto.ca/surgeon-
scientist-training-program)  
[ Surgical Skills Center ](http://www.uoftssc.com)  
[ University of Toronto Visiting Student Electives
](http://www.md.utoronto.ca/electives)  
[ PGME at U of T ](https://pg.postmd.utoronto.ca/)  
[ @UofTGSx Twitter ](https://twitter.com/UofTGSx?s=20)  
[ @uoftgsx Instagram ](https://www.instagram.com/uoftgsx/)  
[ Toronto: The World at Your Doorstep
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ElmVUKUgVig&feature=youtu.be)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Madeline Ng

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: gensurg.residency@utoronto.ca

Phone: 416-480-6100 ext 83736

  

Name: Dr. Savtaj Brar

Title: Program Director

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion**  
All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of the
University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

  
**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)  
** The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.  
  
_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

Note, the application requirements for Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) and
International Medical Graduates (IMGs) differ. Carefully read the section
relevant to your situation prior to submitting your application.

**Review all instructions carefully. Applications with  INCOMPLETE and/or
EXTRANEOUS documents WILL NOT BE REVIEWED.**

**Applying competency-based practices to General Surgery Residency
Education:**

**The General Surgery Residency Program began Competence by Design (CBD) in
July 2020 in alignment with the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Canada’s initiative to introduce competency based medical education (CBME) in
Canadian postgraduate specialty training.**

**Residents entering the General Surgery program in July 2025 will be in the
CBD program, including  **[**Surgical
Foundations**](https://www.royalcollege.ca/ca/en/credentials-exams/exam-
formats/surgical-foundations-exam-format.html)**.**

Residents entering residency in July 2025 should understand that CBD will use
time as a framework and competency as the basis for progression. It is not
anticipated that the duration of training will change for trainees. All
programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and
traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification. Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs
will include the completion of a Royal College examination; however, residents
in CBD programs will also be assessed against program milestones throughout
their training. Within a CBD program, all milestones (documented within an
electronic portfolio) and the Royal College examination must be successfully
completed to achieve certification.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Please note that the language of instruction for this residency program is
English. To ensure file reviewers can properly evaluate your application,
please ensure all documents submitted are either in English or include an
English translation.  
  
In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference must be submitted. These must be from staff
physicians. While candidates are not required to provide letters exclusively
from general surgeons, referees should be able to speak to the applicant's
aptitude for the field of general surgery. The letter may be formatted as the
referees sees fit.

Our Selection Committee is interested in learning the following from your
referee:

  1. How long have you known the applicant? (i.e. years, months, weeks)
  2. Please describe the general structure of your service's clinical rotations for clerks (e.g. subspecialty exposure, teaching, clinics, call, ORs, endoscopy, etc.)
  3. Is the student able to complete a consult/clinic encounter to an acceptable level in an appropriate amount of time?
  4. Comment on the student's fund of knowledge and ability to apply their knowledge.
  5. What surgical skills did you directly observe? To what level did they perform? (e.g. 'below expectations for a medical student', 'at the level of a PGY1')
  6. Comment on the following attributes (please include specific examples): 
     1. Professionalism
     2. Work ethic
     3. Collaboration skills
     4. Perceived enthusiasm/interest in general surgery
  7. Has this student shown the ability to be a self-directed learner? (please give specific examples)
  8. How strongly would you endorse this medical student for a General Surgery residency training program? (e.g. 'Must-have', 'strong candidate')

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

Please answer the following 4 questions in a single document. All answers
should be preceded by the associated question, including the question number.
Answer all questions in order. Limit your document to no more than 1000 words
(excluding questions). The CaRMS platform attaches your name and CaRMS ID to
your personal letter -- Please do not add custom signatures or identifying
headers to the document. **Personal letters that do not adhere to these
standards will not be accepted.**

  1. Why do you wish to pursue a career in General Surgery? Feel free to describe, for example, professional goals, memorable moments in your training so far, or challenges in the field that you wish to solve.
  2. How have your personal experiences shaped you to become a better surgeon?
  3. What personal attributes do you have that will make you an ideal colleague?
  4. Describe constructive feedback that you have received in the past and how you have responded to it.

_Important Note: Please address any gaps in training or remediation periods in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count._

Relevant rotations or health care experience

Please upload as a **separate** document a table of all completed and upcoming
General Surgery or general surgical subspecialty (e.g. Pediatric Surgery,
Thoracic Surgery, Trauma Surgery, Transplant, Surgical Critical Care, etc.)
rotations in chronological order. Please use [this
template](https://view.officeapps.live.com/op/view.aspx?src=https%3A%2F%2Fsurgery.utoronto.ca%2Fsites%2Fdefault%2Ffiles%2Finline-
files%2Frelevant_experience-CMG_revised%252723.docx&wdOrigin=BROWSELINK),
which includes the following column headers:

  * Dates of rotation
  * Location
  * Specialty
  * Rotation type (elective, observership, etc.)

At the end of the document, please also provide the following information:

  * A brief description (<75 words) of the elective requirements/restrictions at your medical school (e.g. our institution requires medical students to complete electives in at least 3 different CaRMS match specialties; please advise if your institution has different requirements).  
  

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Information regarding the review process:

The General Surgery Program uses a structured and standardized process to
review applications in a manner that ensures an equitable evaluation for all
applicants. It is therefore essential that your application fully complies
with the requirements as described.

Only those applications that adhere to the above requirements will undergo
review. **APPLICATIONS THAT DO NOT MEET APLLICATION  REQUIREMENTS WILL NOT BE
REVIEWED.** We will NOT review additional, incomplete or inappropriate
documents including**:**

  * Submission of a custom CV
  * Additional list of abstracts or manuscripts
  * Inappropriately formatted personal letters 
  * Personal letters >1000 words
  * Additional reference letters (>3)

**Please follow the application guidelines very closely.**

Decisions made by the CaRMS Selection Committee are final and are not open to
appeal. The General Surgery Program at the University of Toronto does not have
a mechanism in place to provide feedback to unsuccessful applicants.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 8, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: The interview date is Saturday, February 8,
2025.  
  
Interviews will be done over video conference only.  
  
We have limited capacity to change assigned interview times. We will notify
candidates through CaRMS **whether or not** they have been granted an
interview.** ** Those invited for interview will receive further information
from the program by email.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Each candidate invited for an
interview will participate in a multiple mini interview, tentatively planned
to last 50-60 minutes. Each mini-interview team will consist of a faculty
surgeon and a resident. A standardized scoring scheme will be applied to the
interviews.  
  
In addition to the interviews, formal presentations by the  Program Director
and residents will be made at our virtual reception.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

Residents who graduate from the General Surgery Training Program at the
University of Toronto, will be confident and skilled clinicians who are able
to excel in the practice of General Surgery in a variety of practice settings.
Clinical excellence is emphasized in training around the delivery of care to
patients and this is achieved through a continuous focus on providing high
quality of care in a safe and learner-focused framework. This learning
environment supports the development of highly capable surgeons, able to
engage in ethical and team-based practice.

For the Program's goals and objectives, click
[here](https://surgery.utoronto.ca/sites/default/files/inline-files/Overall-
Goals-General-Surgery-Program.pdf).

## Selection process goals

Successful applicants are typically those that demonstrate strong leadership
potential, a commitment to general surgery, a capacity to learn and succeed in
a surgical training environment, as well as an ability to work well in a team.

Candidates are assigned a composite score comprised of the file and interview
scores. The CaRMS Selection Committee will generate a preliminary rank list on
the basis of these scores.

The University of Toronto General Surgery Residency Program believes that
diversity within our program is a strength, one that benefits both our
trainees and patients. We are also cognizant of the negative effects that
individuals' implicit biases can have during review of applicants. In order to
limit the effect of these biases and foster diversity, we aim to conduct an
equitable and fair applicant review process. We therefore require that all
file reviewers participate in implicit bias training before file review and
all applicant files are anonymized prior to file review.

## File review process

Review team composition : Review team composition: Applicants with complete
applications (i.e. in compliance with the outlined requirements) will be
reviewed by teams comprised of both faculty and residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
(CMGs)

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  
(CMGs)

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Although we do not review custom CVs, we do review typed entries in the web-based CaRMS application.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We recognize that applicants may face difficulties booking visiting electives and would like to reassure you that applicants who have not completed an elective with the General Surgery Program at University of Toronto will not be penalized.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Examination scores entered on CaRMS (if any) will be reviewed to confirm a passing grade was achieved.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  All aspects of the applicant’s extra-curricular activities will be considered, including advocacy and community work.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  All aspects, including leadership in academic, clinical, and extra-curricular settings.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  All aspects of the MSPR will be considered, including all clinical evaluations.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  All aspects, including adherence to the application instructions.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  All aspects, including adherence to the reference letter requirements.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  All aspects of the applicant’s research/publication history will be considered. Separate documentation including published abstracts and copies of manuscripts will NOT be reviewed.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  All aspects of the applicant’s transcript will be considered.   
Other file component(s) |  Adherence to the application instructions will be strongly considered.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Although there are no formal requirements regarding electives, we strongly
recommend that applicants complete electives in General Surgery. Applicants
who have not completed an elective with the General Surgery Program at
University of Toronto will not be penalized.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Collaboration will be evaluated as part of the interview process.   
Collegiality |  Collegiality will be evaluated as part of the interview process.   
Communication skills |  Communication skills will be evaluated as part of the interview process.   
Health advocacy |  Health advocacy skills will be evaluated as part of the interview process.   
Interest in the discipline |  Interest in General Surgery will be evaluated as part of the interview process.   
Interest in the program |  Interest in the Toronto General Surgery program will be evaluated as part of the interview process.   
Leadership skills |  Leadership skills will be evaluated as part of the interview process.   
Professionalism |  Professionalism skills will be evaluated as part of the interview process.   
Scholarly activities |  Scholarship will be evaluated as part of the interview process.   
Other interview component(s) |  We do not offer other interview formats for applicants unable to participate in the MMI on the scheduled interview day. All interviews this year will be conducted virtually.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * **University of Toronto Department of Surgery ranked #1 in Canada and [#3 in the World](https://www.usnews.com/education/best-global-universities/surgery)**
  * **Diverse Resident and Faculty  Body**
  * **Dedicated and Talented Faculty**
  * **Leadership in Surgical Education Research and Innovation**
  * **Highly Engaged Program Leadership**
  * **Surgeon-Scientist Training Program**
  * **Surgical Skills Center at Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto Western Hospital/Michener Institute and St. Michael's Hospital**
  * **Breadth and Depth of Clinical Learning Opportunities**
    * **2 Level I Adult Trauma Centres**
    * **1 Level I Pediatric Trauma Centre**
    * **3 Regional Cancer Centres**
    * **4 HPB Centres**
    * **4 Bariatric Centres**
    * **3 Thoracic Centres**
    * **North America’s largest transplant program**
    * **1  Pediatric Surgery Centre**

For more details, click [here](http://surgery.utoronto.ca/residency-division-
general-surgery) to visit the Division of General Surgery webpage.



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

#### Progress in training occurs through demonstration of competence and
advancement through the stages of the Competence Continuum. General Surgery is
planned as a five-year residency training program. Each year is divided into
4-week blocks, with 13 blocks per year.

Rotations are designed to meet the objectives of the Transition to Discipline
(TTD), Foundations of Discipline, Core of Discipline (COD) and Transition to
Practice (TTP) stages of Competency by Design (CBD) articulated by the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. Residents will also be enrolled
in the Surgical Foundations program in PGY-1. For more information on Surgical
Foundations, please [click
here](https://www.royalcollege.ca/ca/en/credentials-exams/exam-
formats/surgical-foundations-exam-format.html).

**Transition to Discipline and Foundations of Discipline**

**PGY-1 and PGY-2**

Rotations completed in the PGY-1/PGY-2 years include:

  * Acute Care Surgery 
  * Colorectal Surgery 
  * Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary Surgery 
  * Pediatric General Surgery 
  * Trauma Surgery 
  * Thoracic Surgery 
  * Transplant Surgery 
  * Vascular Surgery
  * Critical Care Medicine
  * Endoscopy 
  * Trauma Team Leader
  * Selectives & Electives 

**Core of Discipline**

**PGY-3, PGY-4, and PGY-5**

Rotations completed in the PGY-3, PGY-4, and PGY-5 years include:

  * Acute Care Surgery
  * Ambulatory Surgery
  * Breast Surgery
  * Colorectal Surgery 
  * Complex Surgical Oncology 
  * Community Surgery 
  * Endocrine Surgery 
  * Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary Surgery 
  * Minimally Invasive & Bariatric Surgery 
  * Trauma Surgery 
  * Electives 

**Transition to Practice**

The last four blocks of PGY-5 are dedicated to the Transition to Practice
(TTP) stage of the CBD curriculum. Specific components include involvement in
clinics, ambulatory surgery and endoscopy. During the TTP stage, the program
will arrange seminars and lectures, which prepare graduating residents for
practice.

**Surgeon Scientist Training Program**

Residents accepted into the program have the opportunity to apply for the
Surgeon Scientist Training Program (SSTP) following their PGY-2 or PGY-3 year.
Acceptance to the SSTP is competitive and enrollment varies year to year.
Acceptance to the program will be based on clinical performance and the
proposed research project. Residents who enter the SSTP must enroll in at
least a two-year thesis based graduate program. Taking call shifts during SSTP
is NOT mandatory. However, the program recommends that residents complete 1-3
call shifts/month in order to maintain their clinical skills. Residents have a
wide choice of graduate programs to consider including Basic Science, Clinical
Epidemiology, Health Services Research, and Research in Surgical Education.
Further details regarding these programs can be found on the [School of
Graduate Studies](https://www.sgs.utoronto.ca/) website.

Residents return to senior clinical training after completing their Master's
or PhD degree. All SSTP residents will complete 5 years of clinical training
(i.e. they DO NOT skip a PGY year). The Surgeon Scientist Training Program
satisfies the requirements of the Royal College [Clinician Investigator
Program](https://cip.utoronto.ca/about-clinician-investigator-program-0).
Further details regarding the Surgeon Scientist Training Program can be found
on the [SSTP website](http://surgery.utoronto.ca/surgeon-scientist-training-
program).

**Research Expectations**

Resident research experience is mandatory. All trainees are expected to
complete and present at least one scholarly project. Elective blocks may be
used for research experience.

**Program Wide Teaching**

In addition to a rich offering of site-specific teaching, there are a large
number of centrally organized lectures and seminars. Additionally, the General
Surgery Program provides all residents with training through the Fundamentals
of Laparoscopic Surgery (FLS) course, Advanced Trauma and Life Support (ATLS)
course, and the Fundamentals of Endoscopic Surgery (FES) course.

Royal College exam preparation is accomplished through weekly teaching,
practice oral examination and the Canadian Association of General Surgeons
(CAGS) in-training written examination.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Core Training Sites**

  * 5 Academic adult training sites: 
    * Mount Sinai Hospital
    * University Health Network:
      * Toronto General Hospital
      * Princess Margaret Cancer Centre
      * Toronto Western Hospital
    * St Michael's Hospital
    * Women's College Hospital
    * Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre

  * Academic pediatric training site: 
    * The Hospital for Sick Children  
  

  * Community training sites: 
    * St Joseph's Health Care Centre
    * Michael Garron Hospital
    * North York General Hospital
    * Humber River Hospital
    * Trillium Health Partners (Mississauga)

All sites include acute care surgery. Exposure to both community and academic
surgery is built into program structure and tailored to meet residents'
aspirations and career objectives.

**Non-core Training Sites**

  * Training sites available via the [Rural Ontario Medical Program](http://www.romponline.com/residents/residents.cfm)
    * Barrie, Owen Sound, Collingwood
  * Mackenzie Health (Richmond Hill)
  * The Scarborough Hospital
  * William Osler Health Centre (Brampton)
  * Peterborough Regional Health Centre

For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>



* * *

# Additional Information

  1. **Permanent Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education office in order to comply with current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry of Colleges and Universities
  2. **Matched applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data file to the matched university’s postgraduate education office. The postgraduate office will share the information as needed, but not limited to, the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:**  The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure to meet or provide proof**  of any of the stated requirements may result in applicant file being removed at any point during the match.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26541?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26541