#  Western University - Ophthalmology - London  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 03, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Verena Juncal  
Dr. Lulu Bursztyn  

Address Ophthalmology  
St. Joseph's Health Care  
268 Grosvenor Street  
London, Ontario, N6A 4V2  

Work  (519) 646-6100

Work  5196466074

Websites of Interest [ Ivey Eye Institute
](https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/ophthalmology/ivey_eye_institute/index.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Mia O'Neil

Title: Residency Program Assistant

Email: mia.o'neil@sjhc.london.on.ca

Phone: 519-646-6100

  

* * *

# Important Information



  * There are two (2) Ophthalmology residency positions available for the 2025 CaRMS Match. 



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided (by submitting one
of the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.
Failure to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.
No other forms of verification are acceptable.  

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of card must be provided and legible.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. References should describe particular
skills or abilities related to the profession as well as attest to
interpersonal skills, team abilities and communication strengths. Late
references will not be accepted.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

A personal letter is required and must be submitted (not to exceed 500 words).
Your autobiographical letter should answer the following questions: \- Why you
have chosen Ophthalmology as your professional career? \- What experiences in
your past have led you to choose this specialty? \- What personal attributes
you possess that fit you for this career? \- What characteristics or qualities
you possess that could augment our program? \- What aspects of our program are
important to you?

Custom Résumé / CV

Ophthalmological Report

We require that you obtain an ocular examination with an ophthalmologist or an
optometrist that indicates your best corrected visual acuity including
corrective prescription documented, your stereo-acuity, your color vision and
any other relevant details from a general assessment.

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

We require your undergraduate transcript be submitted to CaRMS. Documents
submitted by the CaRMS suggested deadline will be reviewed. No added
information or updates, after that date, will be reviewed.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 27, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: The Administrative Assistant, Postgraduate
Medical Education will contact the short-listed candidates to arrange the
timing of the interview. The interviews for Ophthalmology at Western
University will take place virtually. Interview date is Monday, January 27,
2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The interview is Multiple Mini
Interview format, consisting of three virtual "rooms". Each part of the
interview will be 20 minutes in duration, for a total time of 60 minutes. The
Interview Committee consists of Program Director; 3 resident representatives -
a PGY-4 (Chief Resident), PGY-3 and a PGY-2; 3 consultants and Chair/Chief of
Department and support staff.  
  
Applicants are invited to attend an informal Virtual Social Event prior to the
interview date.  Further details will be provided to all candidates selected
to interview.  
  
  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The following criteria are employed in the selection of residents for
ophthalmology training:

\- An acceptable academic record which demonstrates proficiency in those
subjects related to ophthalmology and a potential for the high academic
achievement expected by the department standards.

\- A demonstrated interest in Ophthalmology.  

\- References should describe particular skills or abilities related to the
profession as well as attest to interpersonal skills, team abilities and
communication strengths.

\- Excellent communication and interpersonal skills are required for this
small residency training program in which there is close personal interchange
with colleagues in the program and with supervisors.

\- An attitude of compassion, empathy, courtesy and sensitivity is expected of
all residents in the program.

\- A strong work ethic and ability to work in a collaborative team effort is
required.

## Program goals

The objective of the Western University Ophthalmology Residency Training
Program is to train outstanding clinicians who can provide high level
ophthalmology care to patients throughout Canada.  This is accomplished  by
following and maintaining the educational standards that are outlined for
ophthalmology training programs by the Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Canada.   Our goals are to offer a thorough clinical experience
that includes all subspecialty areas of Ophthalmology, with an educational
curriculum that is supported by academic faculty that are recognized leaders
in Canada and international Ophthalmology communities.  We also strive to
provide reserach opportunities for our residents.  In addition, the program
provides mentorship to aid our residents in attaining their career goals after
residency.

## Selection process goals

The goal of our selective process is to select an applicant who:

  * Has a good educational foundation rooted in CanMEDS competencies
  * Demonstrates ethical and professional provision of patient-centered care
  * Has a proven ability to gain clinical knowledge and skills
  * Interacts well with our team and is an eager and willing learner
  * Is a well-rounded individual who has insight into their current strengths and limitations

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is composed of the Program Director,
3 resident representatives – a PGY-4 (Chief Resident), PGY-3 and PGY-2; 3
consultants, Chair/Chief of Department and ophthalmology support staff.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Evidence of work experience, volunteer experience and work-life experience   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We do not consider elective choice as a screening measure for an interview.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Engagement in activities outside of medicine (work-life balance)   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of leadership roles, duration and accomplishments   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Completion of all requirements   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Evidence of personal, academic, interpersonal concerns.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  All documents/files submitted will be reviewed by the committee   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Evidence of publications and/or involvement in scholarly work   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Highlighting any areas of strengths or weaknesses in applicants prior studies   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We do not consider elective choice as a screening
measure for an interview.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Demonstrated skill in collaborative activities in the past   
Collegiality |  General ease of communication and interaction   
Communication skills |  Ability to articulate and describe simple and complex concepts   
Health advocacy |  Ability to demonstrate advocacy in health promotion   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrates knowledge of Ophthalmology   
Interest in the program |  Awareness of London, Western and Ophthalmology   
Leadership skills |  Discussion of prior leadership roles   
Professionalism |  Consistent history of professional behaviour   
Scholarly activities |  Discussion of areas of exceptional academic achievement   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Quick Facts

\- In the five year duration of training, residents are provided up to 6
months of electives.  These are usually taken in the form of community
electives, subspecialty exposure or research electives.

\- Ratio of residents to faculty is 6 - 8 core residents (PGY-2 to PGY-5) to
20 faculty.

\- The ophthalmology program sees approximately 120,000 patient visits per
year.  We perform approximately 6,500 surgical procedures in operating rooms
and approximately 2,200 surgical procedures in procedure rooms within the
clinical facilities.  Approximately 3,300 laser surgeries are performed
clinically in the management of retinal disease and glaucoma.  Our diagnostic
and orthoptic facilities, which are unique in the region, see approximately
30,000 patients per year and provide testing reports to referring physicians
throughout the region.

\- There are no mandatory rural rotations.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**PGY-1**  
  

The PGY-1 year provides a broadly based general year with emphasis on those
services that interface with ophthalmology.

Residency Training Program Start Date - All programs at Western commence on
July 1, 2024.



PGY-2 to 5  
  

The program provides the four core years of integrated training in
ophthalmology required by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Canada. The program is structured to provide graded responsibility and
appropriate levels of supervision. Emphasis is placed on the acquisition of
diagnostic skills in the early phase of the program and on development of
surgical abilities in the later part of the program.

Emphasis is placed on vertical (subspecialty) rotations in PGY-3 to 5.
Electives are available to allow trainees to gain additional expertise. The
trainee and the elective supervisor jointly prepare objectives and a plan for
the proposed elective which is submitted to the Program Committee for approval
before implementation. Both research and clinical elective proposals will be
considered.

  
  

Seminars  
  

Dedicated academic time is committed on Fridays for postgraduate education
with a combination of lectures, problem solving sessions, surgical wet labs
and operating microscope sessions. This time also allows for small group
teaching sessions. A Journal Club is held monthly during the academic year.
Guest lecturers provide seminars throughout the year and a visitng professor
program is in effect. Speakers of international calibre are also invited to
the department's clinical day each year. Training will include comprehensive
exposure to basic science related to Ophthalmology.

  
  

Research  
  

All residents must take part in clinical or basic science research during
their training. The exception is during PGY-1 when residents are exempted and
optional for PGY2 residents. PGY-2 to PGY-5 residents can choose to
participate either in a different small project each year, or in a major
project which is ongoing. The residents are strongly encouraged to choose
projects that incorporate their interests and their previous educational
background. Residents present their ongoing or completed research at the
annual Ophthalmology Research Day. The department has a Research Director who
chairs the Research Committee, made up of faculty members and resident
representatives. All projects are carried out in conjunction with faculty
supervision and must be approved by the Research Committee. The Research
Director acts as a resource for all aspects of research, with the goal of
publication in peer-reviewed journals and presentation at national and
international conferences.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

Residents carry out the majority of their clinical and surgical training in
the core PGY-2 to PGY-5 years at the Ivey Eye Institute located on site at St.
Joseph's Health Care in London.  Subspecialty rotations in Neuro-Ophthalmology
and the Neurological Sciences also take place at University Hospital of the
London Health Sciences Centre. Pediatric surgeries (strabismus, cataracts etc)
occur at the Children's Hospital (Victoria Hospital). The PGY-1 general year
is spent rotating through teaching clinics at the three London teaching
hospitals.

* * *

# Additional Information

For those interested in an academic career, arrangements can be made for
supplementary research and/or clinical training to follow the four year
program either at Western or at another centre with strength in the desired
area for training. In order to assess and document the progress of each
trainee, both written and oral examinations are held annually. The written
examination is provided by OKAP (Ophthalmic Knowledge Assessment Program) and
is taken by most ophthalmology trainees in North America. The performance of
each resident is graded against the performance of peers in North America at a
similar stage of training and provides a substantial measure of objectivity.
Satisfactory performance is expected of all trainees on both written and oral
examinations as well as on the performance appraisal that is completed at the
conclusion of each rotation. Satisfactory progress is required in order to
permit progression from one year to the next within the program.

All information contained is subject to change until such time as the rank
order lists are filed. Please ensure you review information on a regular
basis.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27266?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27266