#  University of Calgary - Plastic Surgery - Calgary  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on November 28, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Brett Byers  
Dr. Aaron Knox  

Address Foothills Hospital  
Rm 382, 1403 - 29 Street N.W.  
Calgary AB T2N 2T9 , Alberta  

Work  (403) 944-4317

(403) 944-2840

Websites of Interest [ Section of Plastic Surgery
](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/departments/surgery/sections/plastic-surgery)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Aaron Knox

Title: Program Director

Email: dr.aaron.knox@gmail.com

Phone: 403-944-4317

  

Name: Brett Byers

Title: Associate Program Director

Email: brett.byers@ahs.ca

Phone: 403-944-4317

  

Name: Jessica McIntosh

Title: Program Administrator

Email: jessica.mcintosh@albertahealthservices.ca

Phone: 403-944-4317

  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Please send three reference letters only.

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

All applicants are required to submit a CV.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

We require a personal introduction letter of all applicants no longer than 750
words.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

This is required and is used as a memory aid.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

The Program Administrator will contact selected candidates via e-mail in
December/January to arrange for interviews. Applicants must confirm interviews
as early as possible and before the indicated deadline on the invitation. This
also applies to applicants who wish to decline the invitation.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 28, 2025

Details regarding interview dates:  
  
Interview Date: January 28, 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews are by invitation only.
The interviews are by committee. The Program will only notify applicants
selected for interview by e-mail.  
  
Interviews will be held virtually on Tuesday, January 28, 2025. Details will
be circulated closer to the interview date.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Superior academic record.

Demonstrated interest in and involvement with the specialty of Plastic
Surgery.

Personal attributes desired of medical professionals. References and
documentation supporting above criteria.

## Program goals

The Plastic Surgery Residency Training Program of the University of Calgary
aims to train competent and ethical plastic surgeons. To this end, we offer a
minimum five-year residency program integrating CanMEDS competencies into
teaching plastic surgery.

The Program is looking for academically driven candidates eager to take
advantage of all the opportunities our program offers.

Highlights of Calgary's Plastic Surgery Residency Program include enthusiastic
teaching faculty, dedicated residency program leadership, a tightknit group of
resident peers, five state-of-the-art teaching facilities, substantial
financial support for travel to applicable conferences and research projects,
and strong track record for graduate residents accepted in prestigious
fellowships and obtaining desirable jobs after.



## Selection process goals

Applicants providing evidence of academic potential in the CaRMS application
file will be considered first. This includes achievement in the form of
academic standing or awards, scholarship (e.g. research, publication,
innovation, etc.), evidence of leadership capacity and experience (e.g.
committee memberships), and teaching experience.

We do not require applicants to have done on-site electives.

## File review process

Review team composition : Files are reviewed by the Plastic Surgery Residency
Training Committee.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  A well-rounded CV with an established record of superlative academic performance is essential   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We do not require applicants to have done on-site electives.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  This is moderately strongly weighted, with an emphasis on how the candidate has acquired leadership skills.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  As above   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  We have not found these to be useful in the past as they tend to be bland, generic, and not helpful   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  A well-crafted, non-clichéd personal letter is an asset   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Strong reference letters from clinical supervisors, and particularly surgeons, are extremely important.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  While not by any means required, a track record of meaningful scholarly activity, particularly in jobs previously held.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We require undergraduate transcripts.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We will not be considering electives in file review to
ensure file review is fair and equitable for all candidates.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We will not be considering electives in file review to ensure file review is
fair and equitable for all candidates.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due
to weather, technology failure or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  The candidate's experience working in a multidisciplinary team setting will be probed.   
Collegiality |  This facet would mostly be drawn from comments in reference letters regarding social skills.   
Communication skills |  The ability to respond to diverse questions in a unscripted way will be one of the main criteria assessed.   
Health advocacy |  Not specifically evaluated.   
Interest in the discipline |  Candidates without an interest in the discipline should not apply.   
Interest in the program |  Implied based on having applied to the program.   
Leadership skills |  An impression on this facet is more likely to be formed from file review rather than the interview.   
Professionalism |  An impression on this facet is more likely to be formed from file review rather than the interview.   
Scholarly activities |  An impression on this facet is more likely to be formed from file review rather than the interview.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The University of Calgary Plastic Surgery Residency Training Program is a
small, preceptor-based program with abundant and varied clinical material.
Currently there are eleven residents in the program.

The program follows the Royal College Competency By Design (see "Additional
Information") transition to discipline and foundations of discipline.



**PGY-1 and 2 - Surgical Foundations**

Rotations are designed to prepare the resident and establish the foundations
for managing the surgical patient. Seminars and courses in biostatistics,
bioethics, research protocol and critical thinking will be mandatory. The
Royal College requires rotations in general surgery, orthopaedic surgery,
trauma, ICU and plastic surgery. Rotations in surgical oncology, and ENT are
required by the program. Rotations are objective specific to optimize resident
experience. Plastic surgery residents are expected to attend all plastic
surgery academic rounds and will be excused from their clinical duties when
off service to do so.



**PGY-3 and 4 - Core of discipline  
**

Adult and paediatric plastic surgery for three years in preparation for the
Royal College certification exams. Residents are exposed to all facets of
plastics including maxillofacial, craniofacial, microvascular, hand,
peripheral nerve, burn, breast, facial aesthetic and body contouring surgery.
Time is spent in consultant offices as well as scheduled clinics which include
hand, reconstructive (oncologic) cleft lip and palate, burn, peripheral nerve
and vascular birthmark clinics, craniofacial head and neck reconstruction.



 **PGY 5 - Transition to Practice**

The final year of residency at the University of Calgary is characterized by
increased autonomy to provide a smoother transition to practice. R5 residents
are expected to run clinics independently (Cosmetic Clinic, Head and Neck
Reconstruction Clinic), take on inpatient management more completely and
operate with less supervision. High volumes of surgery in all aspects of
plastics are on offer. Preparation for the Royal College oral exam is
prominent in the final year, with opportunities for mock examinations and time
away from clinical duties for study.



**Research**

** **_PGY-1_

Research methodology and related topics provided in the form of courses and
seminars. Presentation at the annual Resident Research Day is compulsory.



_PGY-2-5_

Substantial research project (on annual or continuing basis) and presentation
at the annual Resident Research Day is compulsory. The elective blocks are
optional for research in addition to weekly protected academic time.
Presentation of research material at national meetings is strongly encouraged.
Financial support for attendance at meetings is available when papers are
given.



**Seminars, Courses & Training Examinations**

Biostatistics, bioethics, critical thinking, research methodology, ATLS
Course/ACLS Course, CanMeds seminar series, surgical skills lab, departmental
rounds, general plastic surgery rounds, burn rounds, hand rounds, morbidity
and mortality rounds, city-wide rounds, American and Canadian review courses,
CAGS Exams, Surgical Skills exam/POS, MCC Part II, American Plastic Surgery
In-Service exam, biannual sectional exams, American Hand In-Service exam.
There is a protected academic/research half-day on a weekly basis.



* * *

# Training Sites

Foothills Medical Centre



Tom Baker Cancer Centre / Arthur J.E. Child Comprehensive Cancer Centre



Alberta Children’s Hospital



Rockyview General Hospital



Peter Lougheed Centre



South Health Campus

* * *

# Additional Information

_To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called Competence by Design
(CBD), aims to enhance patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong
learning with evolving patient needs and empowering learners to more fully
engage in their education process._

_CBD  uses time as a framework rather than the basis for progression. It is
not anticipated that the duration of training will change for the majority of
trainees. Residency programs will be broken down into stages, and each stage
will have a series of milestones based on required competencies. These
milestones create more targeted learning outcomes and involve more frequent,
formative assessments within the clinical workplace to ensure residents are
developing and receiving feedback on the skills they need._

_The Royal College anticipates that all specialty and subspecialty programs in
Canada will adopt CBD in gradual phases. The Plastic Surgery Residency
Training Program in Calgary  formally started CBD in July 2020._

_All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD and traditional
programs will continue to lead to Royal College approved certiﬁcation.
Certiﬁcation for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs will include
the completion of a Royal College examination. Residents in CBD programs will
also be assessed against training milestones throughout their training. Within
a CBD program, all milestones (documented within an electronic portfolio) and
the Royal College examination must be successfully completed to achieve
certiﬁcation._

* * *

# FAQ

**2025 CaRMS Information Session  **

CaRMS Information Session Registration link:
<https://albertahealthservices.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_pLNmL7OGQFC1nGNoi_gTdg>

November 13, 2024 - 05:30 - 6:30 PM (MST)

Join us on our information session to learn more about the Plastics and
Reconstructive Surgery Program at Calgary! This is a resident-led information
session where we talk about our curriculum, resident community, and the
opportunities the Calgary program can offer you if you join our family. We
look forward to meeting you!

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27097?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27097