#  University of British Columbia - Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation -
Vancouver  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 20, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Darren Lee  

Address Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation  
G.F. Strong Rehabilitation Centre  
Rm. 41 - 4255 Laurel Street  
Vancouver, British Columbia, V5Z 2G9  

Work  (604) 714-4112

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Web site ](https://physmed.med.ubc.ca/)  
[ UBC PMR Twitter ](https://twitter.com/ubc_pmr?lang=en)  
[ UBC PMR Residency Program Instagram
](https://www.instagram.com/ubcpmr/?hl=en)  
[ UBC PMR Youtube Video ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ocYAXLBnup8)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Amy Hanlan

Title: Residency Program Director

Email: amy.hanlan@vch.ca

Phone: (604)-714-4112

  

Name: Sim Lee

Title: Program Administrator

Email: sim.lee@vch.ca

Phone: 604-714-4157

  

* * *

# Important Information

The UBC Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation program will begin accepting CMG
applications for the first iteration match on September 11, 2024, at 9am PST
for the 2025 match year**.**

The UBC PM&R program invites interested applicants to a Virtual Information
Night to learn more about the program.  To be held November 25, 2024, at​ 5 -
6pm (PST).  To register, please contact Program Administrator:
sim.lee@vch.ca.

Candidate interviews will take place on January 24, 2025, and January 31, 2025



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



Reference documents

Required

Applicant support form  Number requested: 3

Narrative letters of reference are no longer accepted for this program.  Your
referee must complete the required structured reference form found here:

[Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Structured Reference
Letter](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.carms.ca%2Fpdfs%2Fphysical-
medicine-and-rehab-structured-reference-
letter.pdf&data=05%7C02%7Csim.lee%40vch.ca%7Ce660d6a2a73b41ed9eb208dcbbbf9966%7C31f660a5192a4db392baca424f1b259e%7C0%7C0%7C638591678813239293%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C60000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=EhkQgE3JElSAUsY4feqdrNTpGUMh0bBsYmFyF9mXzKU%3D&reserved=0)

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Used for memory aid.  Please DO NOT append to your CV.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter is required from each applicant. In the letter, applicants
should describe what they understand the specialty to be, aspects of the
specialty they find appealing, and their motivation for pursuing the
specialty.

Applicants are strictly prohibited from utilizing ChatGPT or any other
artificial intelligence tools in the creation and submission of their personal
letter.  The personal letter should be an authentic representation of the
applicant's thoughts, ideas and communication skills, and the use of AI tools
is considered a violation of the integrity of the application process.

Custom Résumé / CV

All documents received will be reviewed.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All documents submitted will be reviewed by members of the CaRMS Committee,
comprising an equal mix of residents and faculty members.  Extra documents
beyond those requested will not be reviewed.  All reviewed documents will be
used to determine whether interviews are awarded to applicants.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 24, 2025
  * January 31, 2025

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: A personal interview is required and
will be arranged after completed applications (including structured reference
forms, transcripts and personal letters) have been reviewed. The program
administrator will contact applicants directly to arrange interviews. We will
be conducting all interviews via Zoom and the use of breakout rooms.  The
format will be 4 to 5 Multiple Mini Interviews (MMIs) lasting 12-15 minutes
each conducted by interview teams consisting of a faculty member and a
resident.  One of these interviews will consist of a 10 minute presentation by
the interviewee on a topic of their own interest.  Interviewees are welcome to
create a powerpoint presentation which can be screen-shared via Zoom.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

UBC PM&R is a 5 year, Royal College accredited residency training program in
Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation that may admit up to 3 highly qualified
applicants per year.

## Program goals

We provide a comprehensive training program to foster the development of
skills, attitudes, and knowledge necessary for our residents to begin a
rewarding career in Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation at the completion of
their training.  At the core of the UBC PM&R program is a complete training
experience to ensure that the defining attributes and expertise of a
Physiatrist are fully evident in our graduates while tailoring the individual
resident's training across subspecialty areas of practice and academic
pursuits according to their goals and interests.  The UBC PM&R residency
program is part of the Division of PM&R, which identifies the mission of
creating a consortium in which our expertise in clinical service delivery,
teaching and research is shared with other rehabilitation stakeholders
(including our academic partners, government, hospital and regional
administrations, paying agencies, patients and the public) to improve the
quality and effectiveness of rehabilitation services in British Columbia.

## Selection process goals

Applications are welcome from medical students in all medical schools across
Canada. Our program has a strong history of matching both UBC graduates and
out of province graduates. Desirable attributes include a strong academic
background, excellent communication and interpersonal skills, and a proven
interest in the specialty of PM&R. A keen interest in research is welcome, but
certainly not necessary - we also seek candidates who wish to pursue other
academic and clinical areas such as medical education, health advocacy, and
community practice.  Ultimately, we view the selection process as not one of
interviewing a new learner but a future colleague - as such, we seek the
attitudes, competence, and character of someone we would want to work with for
years to come.  Our program values the principles of diversity, equity and
inclusion.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team consists of even numbers of
residents and staff physiatrists. Although not formally part of the review
team, Ms. Sim Lee is involved throughout the process and her feedback is taken
into consideration by the Program Director.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Academic, non-academic, work, and recreational endeavours/accomplishments.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  At least one elective in Physiatry; electives in related fields.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Activities that inform us of one's character, personality, and personal history.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Activities that inform personal and professional development.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Exceptional and poor academic performance flags; successful completion of training.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Clear, concise presentation of motivation for pursuing PM&R.;  
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  At least one reference letter from supervising Physiatrist on various characteristics of applicant.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Any research experience is viewed favourably, especially if relevant to PM&R.;  
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Flags for poor academic performance.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Understands roles of and relationships with patient, family, allied health, and others   
Collegiality |  Attitude and approach to colleagues, allied health, and other healthcare workers   
Communication skills |  Ability to articulate thoughts in an interview setting   
Health advocacy |  Identifies relevant issues affecting marginalized populations and their relevance to care   
Interest in the discipline |  Articulates motivations for pursuing PM&R; clearly and concisely   
Interest in the program |  Articulates reasons for pursuing PM&R; at UBC clearly and concisely   
Leadership skills |  Opportunity to discuss leadership activities not mentioned in CV or provide context to CV   
Professionalism |  Articulates values and attitudes consistent with good medical practice and character; receptive to and seeks feedback to facilitate change   
Scholarly activities |  Opportunity to discuss scholarship intentions, refer to or provide context to CV   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Please see the following promotional video produced on behalf of the Physical
Medicine & Rehabilitation program at UBC: <https://youtu.be/ocYAXLBnup8>

In addition:

  1. The Division has a strong tradition of teaching excellence. Faculty members have won Divisional, Departmental, and Provincial teaching awards. Education is emphasized over service.

  2. Resident feedback is highly regarded and sought after by the Program Director frequently through regular meetings with each resident and occasional meetings with the resident group. There is an annual resident retreat where residents have the opportunity to help structure the program.

  3. The weekly academic half-day covers a structured curriculum that covers core Physiatry topics and concepts, including physical examination.  Faculty actively participate in academic half-day, from supervising and providing talks to demonstrating "gold-standard" physical examination skills. 

  4. There is a weekly research half-day (in addition to academic half day) for all residents from PGY2 to PGY5. This greatly facilitates the ability to work on research projects in a longitudinal fashion.

  5. The PGY1 residents have a protected half day during their first year where they join various physiatry clinics with the goal of preventing burn-out during first year, promoting mentorship and connection to the division.
  6. Research is a priority within the Division. There is a Director of Research for the Division who meets with residents individually to provide guidance, and is readily accessible between major meetings for one-on-one guidance.  A newly appointed Director for Resident Quality Improvement is guiding the development of a QI curriculum.  Both traditional and QIPS streams of research are equally recognized.

  7. Resident interaction with staff is exceptionally collegial. Monthly journal clubs are held at the home of staff members, and there are regular non-academic social events including an annual resident-staff beach volleyball match and ski weekend in Whistler.

  8. All domains of PM&R are well represented at UBC. There are 91 active members throughout the Province of BC within the UBC Division of PM&R, as well as non-UBC physiatrists who welcome residents.

  9. There are opportunities in the program to experience Physiatry throughout the lower mainland, including Vancouver and surrounding municipalities, Vancouver Island, smaller communities in BC and in the Yukon Territory.  All residents attend week-long outreach clinics in Whitehorse during their training. 

  10. UBC PM&R is committed to the inclusion of diverse learners, including those with disabilities.  All rotations can be arranged in accessible environments, with accessible parking available.  There is a process in place for requesting accommodations.  For more information, please contact the Program Director (amy.hanlan@vch.ca) or the Department of Medicine Accommodation Coordinator (sarin.amram@ubc.ca).

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Overview

The duration of training is 5 years, consistent with the Royal College
standard.  All Physiatry programs in Canada implemented Competency By Design
in 2020 with the first cohort of residents starting in a CBD structure in July
2020.

The Transition to Discipline stage spans the first two blocks of residency
training.  This occurs at the GF Strong Rehabilitation Centre across inpatient
and outpatient settings.  The Foundations stage lasts 1 to 1.5 years and
consists primarily of off-service experiences deemed highly relevant to
Physiatry.  The Core of Discipline stage emphasizes primarily physiatry
rotations, including of a mixture of inpatient and outpatient experiences
where the specific mix depends on the rotation.  The Transition to Practice
stage spans the final year of residency and consists of both program-mandated
rotations where trainees function as junior consultants in both inpatient and
outpatient settings as well as generous amounts of elective time for trainees
to pursue areas of interest, should they have met all mandatory requirements
for general training.  There is a progression of responsibility and
independence as residents progress through training, with senior/Transition-
to-Practice residents attending a longitudinal, dedicated senior's clinic at
GF Strong.  

Rotations are based across the lower mainland, with the bulk at GF Strong.
Additional mandatory time is spent at Holy Family Hospital, in Victoria on
Vancouver Island, and at major trauma and rehabilitation hospitals and clinics
in the Fraser Health Authority.  Additional clinical experiences are available
in surrounding municipalities near Vancouver, on Vancouver Island, and the
interior of BC.  Electives are planned by the residents in consultation with
the program director.  Recent residents have arranged to study in centres in
the United States, Europe, Asia, and Africa as well as across Canada.  The
Division of UBC PM&R runs a longitudinal outreach clinic multiple times per
year in Whitehorse, and residents are encouraged to attend.

The greatest strength of the program lies in the ability and enthusiasm of its
clinical teaching staff. There are 91 active members in the Division of
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, all of whom are actively involved in
teaching. Time is spent ensuring that each resident has a program tailored to
their academic needs and goals. Early in training, the Program Director
provides guidance to junior residents.  Residents are encouraged to identify
mentors as they progress through training and find faculty that they work well
with.

Education is emphasized over service requirements and core Physiatry services
are designed to be able to function without residents.  The weekly academic
half-days include basic clinical seminars and physical examination sessions. A
two year core curriculum is followed for the academic half day to make sure
that key topics are covered and reviewed at least twice during the resident's
training.  Faculty attend the majority of teaching sessions, and visiting
faculty from other departments and divisions are frequently invited to give
talks in relevant specialties.  More recently, academic half-day time has also
been dedicated to the pursuit of personal learning projects, providing
residents dedicated time within their busy schedules to pursue clinical
learning experiences to supplement their regular rotations.  In addition,
attendance at monthly evening Journal Club is expected.  The UBC Division of
PM&R has traditionally run Province Wide Rounds in the time slot following
half-day, and changes are currently being implemented to explore alternative
ways of delivering continuing education activities to faculty and residents,
including quarterly half-days of seminars.

Patient advocacy is an important part of Physiatry and residents participate
in a Quality Improvement & Patient Safety (QIPS) curriculum.  We have a
Director of Residency Quality Improvement and many staff with QI experience to
mentor residents.  In the past, projects have involved community fitness,
accessibility and teaching.  One such project led to the development of the
longitudinal Whitehorse outreach clinic, which has become a formal part of
division activities.

Resident evaluation is based on clinical rotations, participation in academic
half-days, completion of resident research projects, and written and OSCE
style examinations. Resident assessment on clinical rotations is driven by
both residents and faculty, with a major emphasis on direct observation and
in-the-moment feedback.  Entrustable Professional Activities, as specified by
the Royal College, helps guide these assessments.  UBC PGME utilizes the
Entrada e-portfolio platform to perform, compile, and organize these
assessments.  The Competency Committee, a subcommittee of the Residency
Program Committee, consists of 4 faculty and the Program Director and meets
regularly throughout the year to review data on resident assessments and makes
recommendations to the RPC regarding resident promotions.  In addition to
attending conferences and meetings, residents also attend the national
comprehensive review course in their PGY-4 or 5 year in preparation for the
Royal College specialty examination.  

Graduates of the program have a strong record of performance on the Royal
College specialty exams.





Research

Research time is distributed longitudinally from the PGY 2-5 years as a
protected half-day per week as well as elective blocks.  Residents have ample
research and elective time to pursue specific areas of interest and past
residents have used their time towards additional post-graduate degrees,
certificates, and clinical specialization.  All residents meet every 4 months
with the Director of Resident Research, in addition to meetings with their
research supervisors as needed.

Residents participate in research projects throughout their training and are
expected to present their findings at the annual Rehabilitation Research Day,
the Department of Medicine's Annual Resident Research Day or at a national
level conference. Many residents go on to publish in journals.

Rotations

Rotations are designed to meet the Royal College Minimal Training Requirements
and provide additional, enriching experiences.

Below is an example of a rotation sequence although the exact sequence of
rotations will vary. A great deal of elective time is available and many
opportunities exist to do elecives in local, regional, national and
international practice experiences both within hospital and community
settings.



  
  

Transition to Discipline |  Physiatry                           |  GFS |  2 blocks  
---|---|---|---  
 Foundations | CTU |  VGH/SPH/BCCH |  3 blocks  
  | Plastic Surgery |  VGH/SPH |  1 block  
  | Neuropsychiatry |  UBC |  1 block  
  | Geriatrics |  VGH/RCH |  1 block  
  | Neurosurgery |  VGH |  1 block  
  | Spine Surgery | VGH |  1 block  
  | ICU | VGH/SPH |  1 block  
  | Rheumatology |  VGH/SPH |  2 blocks  
  | Neurology |  VGH/SPH | 3 blocks  
  | Ortho Trauma |  RCH | 1 block  
  | Elective |   | 1 block  
 Core | Pain Medicine | Community/SPH | 2 blocks  
  | Intro to Spasticity/EDX |  GFS | 2 blocks  
  | Cardiac Rehab |  SPH | 1 block  
  | NMS Rehab |  GFS | 3 blocks  
  | ABI Rehab |  GFS |  3 blocks  
  | SCI Rehab |  GFS |  4 blocks (2 junior and 2 senior)  
  | Stroke Rehab |  GFS/HFH |  3 blocks  
  | MSK Rehab |  HFH |  1 block  
  | Sports Medicine |   Community |  2 blocks  
  | Orthotics & Prosthetics |  GFS/HFH/Victoria |  3 blocks  
  | Pediatric Rehab |  GFS/BCCH/Sunny Hill |  3 blocks  
  | EMG |  GFS/VGH |  3 blocks  
 Transition to Practice | FHA Community Rehabilitation/General Physiatry or Nanaimo |  Community/QPH/NRGH |  2 blocks  
  | Senior Resident Clinic |  GFS |  Longitudinal  
  | Electives |  Variable |  Timing and number depend on resident goals and performance  
  
* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

-Vancouver General Hospital

-G.F. Strong Rehabilitation Centre (4255 Laurel Street, Vancouver, BC) 

-U.B.C. Hospital

-St. Paul's Hospital

-Holy Family Hospital

-BC Children's Hospital

-Sunny Hill Health Centre for Children

-Queen's Park Hospital

-Royal Columbian Hospital

-Nanaimo Regional General Hospital

-Royal Jubilee Hospital, Victoria

-Surrey Memorial Hospital

-Community-based physiatry offices

-Elective experiences available in Kamloops, Kelowna, and Nanaimo where both inpatient and outpatient experiences exist

* * *

# FAQ

1\. How many residents are in the program?

\- We currently have 11 residents.  We expect to accept up to 3 residents for
the 2025-2026 academic year.  Numbers vary depending on transfers into the
program from other programs, parental leave, etc.

2\. What is the main training site?

\- GF Strong Rehab Centre is a free-standing rehabilitation facility located
in Vancouver.  It is the "home-base" for the PM&R residents, and is the
training site for many of the core PM&R rotations. The resident office/room is
based here as are most academic activities.

3\. Are there opportunities for community-based electives?

\- Residents travel to Whitehorse with a staff physiatrist  twice during their
residency for one week outreach clinics timed throughout the year and have the
option of going more often.  PGY5 residents attend a Fraser Health Authority
rotation in New Westminster whereby they function in the role of a general
physiatrist in the community running both inpatient rehabilitation wards as
well as a busy outpatient practice. There is a mandatory month long Orthotics
and Prosthetics rotation in Victoria.  Residents are otherwise strongly
encouraged to attend both outpatient clinics in the community as well as spend
time with physiatrists on smaller inpatient rehabilitation wards in community
hospitals.  We have strong links with physiatrists throughout the lower
mainland of British Columbia as well as in Kelowna, Kamloops, Victoria and
Nanaimo.

4\. Are electives outside of B.C. possible?

\- Several of our residents have arranged electives abroad. Recent electives
have included the USA and Nepal, as well as across Canada.

5\. What is the average number of patients a resident would follow on the
ward?

\- Residents on an inpatient rehab rotation typically carry 6 to 12 patients
depending on their level of training.

6. What are the on-call responsibilities?

\- Residents are on-call as required for each service they rotate with.  In
B.C., the maximum call responsibility is 1 in 4 for in-house call, and 1 in 3
for home-call.  While on GF Strong-based rotations, residents are typically
on-call for one week per month from home.  A staff physiatrist is on call with
the resident at all times and residents are encouraged to contact staff with
questions or for help.

7. What are some of the resources available?

\- The Resident room has a library of key PM&R textbooks, as well as three
computers with internet access. Residents have access to e-journals as well as
the UBC library electronic resources.  Residents have an annual allowance of
$1000 for approved educational expenses such as attend the national PM&R
comprehensive review course in year 4 or 5.  Residents also receive one time
funding during their residency when invited to present at a research
conference.  There is PGME support for mandatory out of town electives within
BC.  There is also specialized funding from the Interior Health Authority for
rotations in Kamloops.

8. What are the expectations for resident research?

\- Residents are expected to have developed a research question by their PGY-2
year, conducted a review of the literature and an essay to either the CAPM&R
or GF Strong Annual Rehabilitation Research Day and complete their research
project by the end of residency.   Projects can vary in duration from 1 to 4
years. Each project is supervised by an approved preceptor from the University
of B.C. Each resident is expected to present their research project at the
annual Rehabilitation Research Day, and residents are encouraged to present at
the Department of Medicine Research Day and at a national level conference.
Projects should be completed and ready for publication and/or presentation by
the end of the residency program.

9.  Is it possible to work towards a Masters degree during residency?

\- Recent residents have enrolled in and completed Masters of Medical
Education and Masters of Health Care and Epidemiology programs during their
residency training.

10.  Will I ever get out of the hospital?

\- Absolutely!  The importance of an active, healthy lifestyle is emphasized
in Vancouver.  Physiatrists recognize and value life-work balance.  Many
residents love working in B.C. because of the year-round opportunities to
enjoy hiking, running, tennis, beach volleyball, skiing, yoga, surfing,
boating, or just relaxing in the mild climate.

11\. Do I need to have a car?

\- Not necessarily.  Most of the teaching hospitals (GFS, Vancouver General
Hospital, St. Paul's Hospital, UBC hospital and BC Children's hospital) are
connected by inter-hospital shuttle and accessible by public transit.  Other
Vancouver area hospitals are also easily accessible by public transit.
Vancouver is an excellent city for cycling and there are car-share programs
available in the city.  

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26959?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26959