#  University of Manitoba - Anesthesiology - Winnipeg

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on November 25, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 8

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Calvin Loewen  
Dr. Kenton Staines  

Address Anesthesia  
AE200, Harry Medovy House  
671 William Avenue  
Winnipeg , Manitoba, R3E 0Z2  

Work  (204) 787-1057

Fax  (204) 787-4291

Websites of Interest [ University of Manitoba, Department of Anesthesiology
Perioperative and Pain Medicine ](https://umanitoba.ca/medicine/department-
anesthesiology-perioperative-and-pain-medicine)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Kenton Staines

Title: Postgraduate Program Director

Email: Kenton.Staines@umanitoba.ca

Phone: (204) 787-1057

  

Name: Dr. Calvin Loewen

Title: Associate Program Director

Email: calvin.loewen@umanitoba.ca

Phone: 204-787-1057

  

Name: Dr. Faisal Siddiqui

Title: Associate Head of Education, Deputy Medical Director

Email: fsiddiqui@hsc.mb.ca

Phone: 204-787-2549

204-787-2262

  

Name: Erin Tan

Title: Postgraduate Program Administrator

Email: etan7@hsc.mb.ca

Phone: (204) 787-1057

  

* * *

# Important Information

The Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation, which is **mandatory** , will
be held on Thursday June 26, 2025..



**Competency-Based Medical Education Overview**

Competency-Based Medical Education (CBME) comprises four stages of training.
In the introductory stage, Transition to Discipline (TTD), we provide a
comprehensive Bootcamp that serves to prepare our residents for their first
year of residency and the stages that follow. Residents will receive didactic,
simulation and hands-on OR training in the first month. Courses during the
first month include: ACLS, Transthoracic Echocardiography, POCUS, simulation
scenarios, and didactic sessions designed to complement the Entrustable
Professional Activities (EPAs) for TTD. The duration of TTD is 2 months with
significant time for hands-on OR experience.

The second phase of our CBME program encompasses 16 Royal College EPAs that
comprise the Foundations portion of the curriculum. Our program believes that
broad exposure to diverse training opportunities will result in well-rounded
physicians capable of meeting the challenge of independent practice. To
achieve these goals, residents will rotate on off-service rotations ranging
from internal medicine, pediatrics and emergency medicine to cardiology and
respirology. After completion of EPAs specific to these rotations (see Road
Map), the resident will rotate through more advanced rotations in anesthesia
and intensive care. A curriculum of simulation training, online learning tools
and didactic lectures exist to support acquisition of Foundations EPAs. The
expected duration of Foundations for our program is 22 months.

As residents transition to more advanced stages, subspecialty training takes a
more prominent role. During Core, the third stage of training, residents
rotate through anesthesia subspecialties such as Neuroanesthesia, Cardiac,
Pediatrics and further their ICU experience and the acquisition of more
advanced EPAs. A fantastic feature of the U of M program during this stage is
the opportunity for department-sponsored international electives and
eligibility for up to 6 months of research training with prominent faculty.
Residents will write the written portion of their Royal College exam during
the latter portion of Core, which has an expected duration of 30 months. Our
dedicated faculty has a long history of outstanding teaching which is
instrumental to success on the exam.

Lastly, Transition to Practice (TTP) features EPAs that focus more on career
planning and truly independent, advanced consultant-level anesthetic care. A
consultant at this stage will be able to manage the most challenging cases in
patients with advanced disease, often during critical stages of illness.
During these last 6 to 12 months of training, residents prepare for
independent practice. A vigorous and comprehensive oral exam course with a
long tradition of outstanding preparation as well as generous time for self-
study has been afforded for this stage.  

Our goal is to facilitate an overall CBME program that is responsive to the
needs of each resident to make them the best physician they can be. In
situations where a resident has completed the Royal College EPAs early, all
opportunities will be afforded to allow for advanced training of the
resident’s choice or credit toward fellowship training where appropriate. A
large faculty of dedicated professionals exists to help you meet your goals.
We take great pride in our department and the residents that train with us, as
we regard our residents as future colleagues.

**Competency-Based Medical Education Roadmap**

**Training**  

  * Anesthesia and sub-specialties (including pediatric, obstetric, cardiac, neuro, thoracic, regional anesthesia, chronic pain clinic and acute pain) 

  * Critical Care (including medical and surgical ICU, coronary care and pediatric ICU) 

  * Internal medicine (including cardiology and respirology, and choices from nephrology, endocrinology, transfusion medicine, perioperative medicine, and infectious disease.) 

Training occurs primarily at the tertiary institutions listed above, including
a dedicated Children's Hospital with rotations through the other sites noted
above.

These form an integrated system in the province serving approximately 1.1
million people. Residents have input into their training and rotation
selection. The content of the first two years of training are well-delineated
(see below). Thereafter the resident is able to tailor training to specific
individual goals within the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
requirements and program guidelines. All rotations are taken as four-week
blocks of training; i.e. there are 13 rotations (periods) per year. There are
four weeks of vacation per year; these can be taken in one-to-four-week
segments totaling four weeks.

**Scholarly Activity**  

Distinguishing features of the scholarly activity curriculum at the U of M
include:

  * Flexibility to pursue projects in clinical or translational research, quality improvement or medical education, including simulation. 

  * Enthusiastic mentors with active projects in anesthesiology, perioperative medicine, critical care, chronic pain and clinical health psychology 

  * Opportunities to work with one or more faculty on one or more projects, sometimes in collaboration with other trainees 

  * Access to a robust internal grant competition providing up to $10,000 per project. 

  * Funding for travel to present scholarly projects at multiple conferences throughout the residency. 

  * Methodological, analytical, administrative and logistical support from the associate head research, biostatisticians, and 3 full time support staff dedicated to assisting and coordinating scholarly activity in the department. 

  * Up to 24 weeks of scholarly project time with reduced clinical responsibilities to facilitate completion of the project. 

All residents are required to complete a scholarly activity project by the end
of residency that includes:

  * Submission of a written proposal and presentation of the proposal at research rounds in PGY3. 

  * Submission of a completed manuscript and presentation at the annual Resident Research Symposium in PGY4. 

The scholarly activity curriculum also includes a resident led, faculty
mentored journal club program and a dedicated series of faculty led academic
half day sessions on the design and critical appraisal of research.  

For residents seeking to make research a significant part of their career,
additional supports are available. There is up to $50,000 in funding to
support advanced training in research or education during residency, including
participation in the Clinician Investigator Program. The program also has a
track record of resident research being published in major anesthesia journals
and abstract presentations being recognized for merit in international forums.

**Education, Seminars and Evaluation**

Resident Education is emphasized throughout training with active teaching
occurring both inside and outside the operating room. All participating
institutions have dedicated, interested, and effective teachers. One-on-one
teaching is an integral part of our program and takes place in all clinical
anesthesia rotations.  

Academic time is scheduled and protected from clinical work for all residents,
PGY-1 to 5 (prior to the oral exam). The academic seminar series (primarily
problem-oriented small group sessions) includes a half day Basic Series for
PGY-1 to 2, and half day Advanced Series for PGY-2 to 4.

Additional academic sessions include Talk Rounds (case discussions), formal
Grand Rounds, Journal Club, Resident Research Night, and a Visiting Professor
Program, where Canadian and International experts are invited to give
presentations and participate in resident teaching.

The Faculty of Medicine Core Curriculum covers areas of general interest
across all faculty disciplines including Critical Appraisal, Learning to
Teach, Ethics, and Practice Management. Education is directed to further the
RCPSC developed CanMEDS roles for specialist physicians (Medical Expert,
Communicator, Collaborator, Leader, Health Advocate, Scholar and
Professional).  

The University of Manitoba has an outstanding simulation centre that fully
supports all types of simulation, including standardized patients, task
trainers in the procedural skills lab and immersive mannequins from infant to
adult. Our trainees begin with basic skills in the skills lab during Bootcamp.
There is an extensive curriculum of organized immersive simulation from PGY2-5
run by highly trained faculty. There is also a continually increasing exposure
to interdisciplinary simulation.

Assessment of clinical performance is completed through Entrada, the
University’s Learning Management Platform. Residents are encouraged to attend
one anesthesia related meeting per year with some funding department provided
to support this.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Program application language: **English**

The University of Manitoba Anesthesia Program provides a balance, being large
enough to offer trainees a wide exposure to anesthesia and, being small enough
to be flexible and personal. Our residents have input into their training
choices. Our residents gain independence through their training, taking on
appropriate increases in responsibility (with any needed support), while they
work toward their personal goals and those of the program. Our Residents see a
broad spectrum of pathology as Winnipeg serves as a referral base for all of
Manitoba, Northwest Ontario, and Nunavut.

**Simulation Training** :

Residents have access to regularly scheduled simulation training in the
Faculty of Medicine Clinical Learning and Simulation Facility.

**International Electives** :

All residents who are in good standing and have an interest are encouraged to
participate in an International experience. Residents have been to Haiti,
Rwanda, India, China, New Guinea, Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Nicaragua and
Benin. Residents have chosen to supplement local experience with elective
experience in their particular areas of interest. Residents have undertaken
elective experience in most other provinces in Canada as well as
internationally.

**Research** :

All residents are required to complete a Scholarly project with the help of
our Research office and mentoring faculty. Residents have opportunities to
participate in an ongoing local/national and international research projects.
Mentoring staff have extensive experience in basic science and clinical
research and scientific publication.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

  * Three (3) letters of reference are required, written by staff with a knowledge of your clinical and patient care skills, interpersonal and communication skills, interests and abilities. All letters of reference must contain the signature of the referee. Three references are due to the CaRMS office by the reference letter deadline.

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

In addition to the CaRMS application, a personal letter is required. As an
applicant you should discuss why you wish to pursue anesthesia as a career and
express your goals, experiences and interests.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All completed application files provided by the deadline will be reviewed by
the Anesthesia Admissions Committee.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 1, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held virtually on
**Saturday  February 1, 2025**. You will be contacted by the Department of
Anesthesia if selected for an interview.  Arrangements will be made with the
Program Administrator. This year, all interviews will be conducted virtually.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Details regarding interview dates
Interviews will be held virturally on **Saturday Febraury 1, 2025.** You will
be contacted by the Department of Anesthesia if selected for an interview.
Arrangements will be made with the Program Administrator.  
  
**Notification/Invitation** : Program will notify all applicants  
  
Details regarding the interview process: The Admissions Committee will review
all applications and schedule interviews. The formal interview process will
include an interview with two Admission Committee Members for one hour,
virtually. Interview day will consist of a full day including interviews,
presentations from the Department Heads, Program Director and Lead residents
as well as a question period by our junior residents. This time is an
excellent opportunity for applicants to meet and talk in an informal setting
with most of our residents, the program administration and several of our
faculty teachers.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The University of Manitoba Anesthesiology, Perioperative and Pain Medicine
Program provides a balance, being large enough to offer trainees a wide
exposure to anesthesia and, being small enough to be flexible and personal.
Our residents have input into their training choices. Our residents gain
independence through their training, taking on appropriate increases in
responsibility (with any needed support), while they work toward their
personal goals and those of the program. Our Residents see a broad spectrum of
pathology as Winnipeg serves as a referral base for all of Manitoba, Northwest
Ontario, and Nunavut.

Selection Criteria

Selection Criteria will include:

A passion for Anesthesia and Perioperative medicine as well as suitability for
a career in Perioperative Medicine as demonstrated by:

  * Reference and Personal letters
  * Academic Transcript and records
  * The Personal interview

There will be a Program Director and a Lead Resident presentation about the
program. Applicants are encouraged to ask questions during and after the
presentation; there will be an open discussion with the Lead Resident, and
fellow residents to facilitate open discussion with applicants.

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including our specialty.

On Site Elective: We **do not** require applicants to have done onsite
electives.

## Program goals

Mission-Max Rady College of Medicine

  * To develop, deliver and evaluate high quality educational programs for undergraduate and postgraduate students of medicine and medical rehabilitation, for graduate students and postdoctoral fellows in basic medical sciences and for physicians to practice. 
  * To conduct research and other scholarly enquiry into the basic and applied medical sciences. 
  * To provide advice, disseminate information to health professions and plan for the development and delivery of health care services and to help improve health status and service delivery to the Province of Manitoba and the wider community.

## Selection process goals

Selection Criteria will include:

A passion for Anesthesia and Perioperative medicine as well as suitability for
a career in Perioperative Medicine as demonstrated by:

  * Reference and Personal letters
  * Academic Transcript and records
  * The Personal interview

There will be a Program Director and a Lead Resident presentation about the
program. Applicants are encouraged to ask questions during and after the
presentation, and a separate session with the senior resident will facilitate
open discussion with applicants.

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including our specialty.

On Site Elective: We **do not** require applicants to have done onsite
electives.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team consists of faculty members and
residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Evidence of performance across all CanMEDs roles   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Evidence of performance across all CanMEDs roles   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Evidence of performance across all CanMEDs roles   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of performance across all CanMEDs roles   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of performance across all CanMEDs roles   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evidence of performance across all CanMEDs roles   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Evidence of performance across all CanMEDs roles   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Evidence of performance across all CanMEDs roles   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Evidence of performance across all CanMEDs roles   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  General academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  Structured interview questions with two interviewers  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Global rating scale for relevant questions   
Collegiality |  Global rating scale for relevant questions   
Communication skills |  Global rating scale for relevant questions   
Health advocacy |  Global rating scale for relevant questions   
Interest in the discipline |  Global rating scale for relevant questions   
Interest in the program |  Global rating scale for relevant questions   
Leadership skills |  Global rating scale for relevant questions   
Professionalism |  Global rating scale for relevant questions   
Scholarly activities |  Global rating scale for relevant questions   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  We will take into account any information that can be verified as
true and reliable.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Program Highlights**  

The Department of Anesthesiology, Perioperative and Pain Medicine at the
University of Manitoba is a broad-based clinical program that offers a wide
array of clinical and academic opportunities both locally and internationally.
With clinical excellence at our core, we are guided by the philosophy that all
successful Anesthesiologists must first be well-rounded clinicians. By
offering the flexibility to tailor their training to particular areas of
interest in research, teaching, administration, clinical sub-specialties or
community engagements, our residents have had great success becoming high
caliber, well-rounded anesthesiologists who continue to champion leading roles
in growth and innovation while continuing to enrich their future departments,
communities and our specialty as a whole.

Clinical exposure in our program is primarily focused at Winnipeg’s two
tertiary hospitals, Health Sciences Centre and the St. Boniface Hospital. In
addition, teaching and clinical experience in pediatrics is offered at our
Children’s Hospital, Regional and Pain management at the Pan Am Surgical
Centre and Community experience at our Concordia, Grace and Victoria General
Hospitals.

Resident well-being and support are an important focus of our program. Our
department funded annual Resident Retreat is organized by our residents and
includes a full day of non-clinical activities allowing our residents to
network and build relationships with one another. Additionally, a robust
Physician Wellness Curriculum is an integral part of our core academic
schedule throughout the year, helping residents build and maintain the tools
necessary to cope with stresses within and outside our program.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Competency-Based Medical Education**

Competency-Based Medical Education comprises four stages of training. In the
introductory stage, Transition to Discipline (TTD), we provide a comprehensive
Boot-camp that serves to prepare our residents for their first year of
residency and the stages that follow. Residents will receive didactic,
simulation and hands-on OR training in the first month. Courses during the
first month include: Basic Life Support, ATLS, Transthoracic Echocardiography,
CAE ultrasound course, simulation scenarios, and didactic sessions designed to
complement the Entrustable Professional Activities (EPAs) for TTD. The
duration of TTD is 2 months with significant time for hands-on OR experience.

The second phase of our CBME program encompasses 16 Royal College EPAs that
comprise the Foundations portion of the curriculum. Our program believes that
broad exposure to diverse training opportunities will result in well-rounded
physicians capable of meeting the challenge of independent practice. To
achieve these goals, residents will rotate on off-service rotations ranging
from internal medicine, pediatrics and emergency medicine to Cardiology and
Respirology. After completion of EPAs specific to these rotations (see Road
Map), the resident will rotate through more advanced rotations in General
Anesthesia and ICU. A core curriculum of simulation training, online learning
tools and didactic lectures exist to support acquisition of Foundations EPAs.
The expected duration of Foundations for our program is 22 months.

As residents transition to more advanced stages, subspecialty training takes a
more prominent role. During Core, the third stage of training, residents
rotate through anesthesia subspecialties such as Neuroanesthesia, Cardiac,
Pediatrics and further their ICU experience and the acquisition of more
advanced EPAs. A unique feature to the U of M program during this stage is the
opportunity for department-sponsored international electives and eligibility
for up to 6 months of research training with prominent faculty. Residents will
write the written portion of their Royal College exam during the latter
portion of Core, which has an expected duration of 30 months. Our dedicated
faculty has a long history of outstanding teaching which is instrumental to
success on the exam.

Lastly, Transition to Practice features EPAs that focus more on career
planning and truly independent, advanced consultant-level anesthetic care. A
consultant at this stage will be able to manage the most challenging cases in
patients with advanced disease, often during critical stages of illness.
During these last 6 to 12 months of training, residents prepare for
independent practice. A vigorous and comprehensive oral exam course with a
long tradition of outstanding preparation as well as generous time for self-
study has been afforded for this stage. Our goal is to facilitate an overall
CBME program that is responsive to the needs of each resident to make them the
best physician they can be. In situations where a resident has completed the
Royal College EPAs early, all opportunities will be afforded to allow for
advanced training of the resident’s choice or credit toward fellowship
training where appropriate. A large faculty of dedicated professionals exists
to help you meet your goals. We take great pride in our department and the
residents that train with us, as we regard our residents as future colleagues.





**THE UNIVERSITY OF MANITOBA ANESTHESIA PROGRAM: CBME Road Map: What does it
look like?  **



**Training:**

Anesthesia and sub-specialties (including pediatric, obstetric, cardiac,
neuro, Thoracic, regional anesthesia, chronic pain clinic and acute pain
therapy)

  * Critical Care (including medical and surgical ICU, coronary care and pediatric ICU)
  * Internal medicine (including cardiology and respirology, and choices from nephrology, endocrinology, transfusion medicine, perioperative medicine, and infectious disease.)

Training occurs primarily at the tertiary institutions listed above, including
a dedicated Children's Hospital with rotations through the other sites noted
above.

These form an integrated system in the province serving approximately 1.1
million people. Residents have input into their training and rotation
selection. The content of the first two years of training are well-delineated
(see below). Thereafter the resident is able to tailor training to specific
individual goals within the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
requirements and program guidelines. All rotations are taken as four-week
blocks of training; i.e. there are 13 rotations (periods) per year. There are
four weeks of vacation per year; these can be taken in one to four week
segments, totaling four weeks.



**Scholarly Activity** :

All residents are expected to complete a scholarly activity project (clinical
or basic science research, or a systematic literature review) in their PGY 2-4
Years. Residents present this work at the annual Resident's Research
Symposium. The required work of scholarly activity is designed to facilitate
understanding of research methodology and critical appraisal, and potentially
spark interest in some to further a research career. This work can be a
research project or it can be a comprehensive analytical review. Up to 6
periods (of 4 weeks) are allowed to undertake research projects, or the
project may be completed coincidentally with clinical assignments. Projects
are supervised by faculty in our department or in other disciplines, and are
overseen by our Scholarly Activity Coordinator and Research Committee.

**Education, Seminars, Evaluation** :

Resident Education is emphasized throughout training with active teaching
occurring both inside and outside the operating room. All participating
institutions have dedicated, interested, and effective teachers. One-on-one
teaching is an integral part of our program and takes place in all clinical
anesthesia rotations. An ongoing daily evaluation and feedback program is in
place to help the resident achieve a balanced exposure and approach to
anesthesia practice, and to achieve responsibility and independence.

Seminar programs (primarily problem-oriented small group sessions); Basic
Series for PGY-1 to 2, and Advanced Series for PGY-2 to 4.

Rounds, including Case Discussions, formal Grand Rounds, Journal Club, Talk
Rounds, Research in Progress, and a Visiting Professor Program, Canadian and
International experts are invited to give presentations and participate in
resident teaching activity.

Academic time is scheduled and protected from clinical work for all residents,
PGY-1 to 5.

Advanced Seminars are scheduled on Wednesday afternoons for PGY-1 to 4
residents. PGY-1 to 2 residents are also involved in Basic Seminars on
Wednesday mornings. In addition there is a Scholarly Activity Lecture Series
which takes place on Wednesday afternoons for PGY 1-2 residents who are
preparing for their end of third year research blocks. There is also a Faculty
of Medicine Seminar series covering areas of general interest across all
faculty disciplines including Critical Appraisal, Learning to Teach, Ethics,
and Practice Management. Education is directed to further the RCPSC developed
CanMEDS roles for specialist physicians (Medical Expert, Communicator,
Collaborator, Leader, Health Advocate, Scholar and Professional). The
University of Manitoba has an outstanding simulation centre that fully
supports all types of simulation, including standardized patients, a
procedural skills lab and immersive mannequins from infant to adult. Our
trainees begin with basic skills in the skills lab during our Boot Camp. There
is an extensive curriculum of organized immersive simulation from PGY2-5 run
by highly trained faculty. There is also a continually increasing exposure to
interdisciplinary immersive simulation.

Assessment of performance is achieved through daily clinical evaluations for
Conventional stream residents and for CBD residents all the assessments are
done in an on line platform called Entrada.

Residents are encouraged to attend one anesthesia related meeting per year
with some funding department provided to support this.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

**Training Sites**

  * Health Sciences Centre (including the General Hospital, the Women's Hospital, and the Children's Hospital)
  * St. Boniface Hospital
  * Community Hospitals (Grace, Victoria, Concordia)
  * Pan Am Surgical Centre
  * Clinical Learning Simulation Facility (Brodie Centre)

Each teaching hospital site has web-based literature searching available 24
hours. A patient simulator and Airway Lab are accessible to Anesthesia
Residents. The Clinical Learning and Simulation Training Facility actively
engages Residents in simulation throughout their training.

* * *

# Additional Information

About Winnipeg, Manitoba:

Winnipeg offers safe, affordable living and easy commuting while boasting a
vibrant multicultural arts and social scene, as well as, active professional
sports teams such as the Winnipeg Jets, Blue Bombers and Goldeyes. Winnipeg
offers a variety of arts, culture, sports, recreation and entertainment to
satisfy every taste. We’re a four season city that celebrates rich colourful
history through our many historic sites, exhibits, attractions and yearly
festivals.

Manitoba offers five universities, and three community colleges with advanced
education and some of the lowest tuition fees including overall lower cost of
living.

Manitoba is home to over 100,000 lakes and many beautiful provincial parks,
which are year-round havens for campers, fishers, hikers and lovers of the
great outdoors.

Main SITES:

HSC is a fast-paced, dynamic environment for working, learning and conducting
research. Over 8,000 people work at HSC, delivering and supporting diverse and
complex patient care.

At HSC, we foster a culture of hope, discovery, caring, excellence and honour.
Through programs such as wellness, staff appreciation, education and training
opportunities, we support our staff’s professional development and well-being

St. Boniface Hospital, a work of charity of the [**Sisters of Charity of
Montreal “Grey Nuns**](http://www.sgm.qc.ca/), is a Catholic tertiary health
care facility affiliated with the University of Manitoba.

As one of Manitoba’s largest health care facilities, St. Boniface maintains a
campus comprised of more than 180 departments and services, located in seven
separate buildings and situated on 20 acres of land. We also operate several
satellite facilities located at off campus sites, and maintain close
relationships with other health facilities and well as the health facilities
and agencies of the Grey Nun network.

For more information on the City of Winnipeg and what is has to offer, please
visit the websites provided below:

[https://www.tnse.com ](https://www.tnse.com/)
[https://goldeyes.com/](https://goldeyes.com/)  

[https://humanrights.ca/](https://humanrights.ca/)
https://www.wag.ca  

[https://www.bluebombers.com/](https://www.bluebombers.com/)
[https://childrensmuseum.com/](https://childrensmuseum.com/)

[https://www.assiniboinepark.ca](https://www.assiniboinepark.ca/)
[https://wso.ca/](https://wso.ca/)  

[https://www.fortwhyte.org/](https://www.fortwhyte.org/)
[https://www.theforks.com/](https://www.theforks.com/)  

[https://www.oakhammockmarsh.ca/](https://www.oakhammockmarsh.ca/)
[http://www.corydonbiz.com/](http://www.corydonbiz.com/)

[https://roadtripmanitoba.com/manitoba-
beaches/](https://roadtripmanitoba.com/manitoba-beaches/)
[https://valourfc.canpl.ca](https://valourfc.canpl.ca/)  

[https://roadtripmanitoba.com/beautiful-manitoba-
lakes/](https://roadtripmanitoba.com/beautiful-manitoba-lakes/)
[https://www.pc.gc.ca/en/voyage-
travel/promotion/manitoba](https://www.pc.gc.ca/en/voyage-
travel/promotion/manitoba)

* * *

# FAQ

**Will you accept late reference letters?**

         Answer - No, later references will not be accepted. Any applications with references not provided by the deadline will be denied.

**Will you accept incomplete applications?**

         Answer - No, any application with missing documentation or required information will not be accepted.









* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26431?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26431