#  University of Alberta - Family Medicine - Grande Prairie  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on September 20, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Michelle Morros  

Address Family Medicine  
University of Alberta  
5-16 University Terrace  
Edmonton, Alberta, T6G 2T4  

780-492-9961

Websites of Interest [ Family Medicine Residency Program
](https://www.ualberta.ca/en/family-medicine/postgraduate/prospective-
residents/index.html)  
[ Grande Prairie FM Residency ](https://www.ualberta.ca/en/family-
medicine/postgraduate/prospective-residents/rural-stream/grande-prairie.html)  
[ Instagram ](https://www.instagram.com/uofa_ruralfm_grandeprairie/)  
[ Facebook ](http://facebook.com/UofAFM)  
[ Grande Prairie Tourism ](https://gptourism.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Brad Martin

Title: Site Co-Director

  

Name: Dr. Valentin Duta

Title: Site Co-Director

  

Name: Jane Schotz

Title: Academic Site Administrator

Email: rfmgp@ualberta.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

The most up-to-date information about our programs can be found on our
centralized website at: [https://www.ualberta.ca/family-
medicine/postgraduate/prospective-
residents/index.html](https://www.ualberta.ca/family-
medicine/postgraduate/prospective-residents/index.html)

Multiple opportunities to meet with our programs residents, faculty and
administrators will be available throughout the CaRMS season. Please see
[CANPREPP-Grande Prairie](https://canprepp.ca/programs/university-of-alberta-
family-medicine-grande-prairie/) for dates and registration.

**AIMG PROGRAM**

Please read the following information carefully:

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) interested in postgraduate medical
training positions in Alberta are eligible to apply to IMG positions at the
University of Alberta provided they have applied to, and been assessed as
eligible, by the Alberta International Medical Graduate Program (AIMG)
Program. Please refer to the [Alberta Provincial
Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/) and [visit the AIMG Program website](http://www.aimg.ca/)
for details on deadlines, eligibility criteria, and the application process.

Alberta IMG Program (AIMG) Multiple Mini Interview (MMI) results:

Please note that the Multiple Mini Interviews (MMI) scores will be shared
directly to the residency programs by AIMG. MMI results are not submitted by
applicants.

All matched applicants MUST successfully complete an Externship before they
can proceed to residency training. Applicants MUST be available to start
Externship on their set date. CPSA licensure is mandatory for this component.
The AIMG Program will provide information on this process to successful
applicants.

All matched applicants must meet the licensing criteria for registration with
the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA) for postgraduate
education. Please review the requirements at www.cpsa.ab.ca. Any delays in
providing the required documentation to the CPSA may result in a delay in the
issuance of licensure and a delay in the start of Externship and postgraduate
training.

Residency programs determine the final outcome of Externship; the decision is
final and there is no appeal process.

**** ****

To complete an application for the University of Alberta's Urban Family
Medicine Program stream:

1) You will need 3 referees to **submit** the [Family Medicine Structured
Reference Form](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/sample-FM-structured-reference-
letter-CMG.pdf).

2) You must **complete** the Personal Letter as detailed in the “Additional
Documents” section. Please note that the guidelines for the letter differ
slightly between our urban and rural streams.

3) You have the **option of completing** the CaRMS Self-Identification
Questionnaire (CSIQ). The CSIQ is not currently being used as part of the
application or selection process. More information can be found in the
“Additional Information” section.

4) You must **complete** the FMProC (Family Medicine Professional Choices)
test as noted in the “Examination” section.

**FMProC**

All Family Medicine Residency Programs across Canada use the FMProC (Family
Medicine Professional Choices) in their selection process, which is a Family
Medicine-context specific Situational Judgment Test.

**All applicants to the University of Alberta Family Medicine Residency
Program will be required to write the FMProC for their application to be
deemed complete**. More details and information about registration for FMProC
can be found here:[https://fmproc.com/](https://fmproc.com/).

**Applicants should register early and take the test early during the testing
periods posted.**

**CaRMS Round 1:**

**Registration** : Opens 11th September 2024 Wednesday 12 noon ET, closes 7th
November 2024 Thursday 10AM  ET.

****Test Window:** Opens 28th October Monday 8AM ET, closes 11th November
Monday 10AM ET. **

* * *

# Return of Service

There are no return of service requirements at the University of Alberta.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

**_Candidates who match to our program are required to submit proof of ACLS
certification prior to their start date. Without ACLS certification,
candidates who match to our program will not be able to begin training on July
1._**



* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Please see the Alberta [provincial
criteria.](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/)

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) are required to provide proof of
English language proficiency as determined by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) who completed their medical education in
Quebec or at the University of Ottawa (French Stream) are required to provide
proof of English language proficiency as determined by the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

CMGs who completed their medical education at the University of Ottawa must
indicate on their application which stream they completed (either French or
English).

_For more information on the CPSA English language requirements, please visit
the  [CPSA website](https://cpsa.ca/physicians/registration/english-language-
proficiency/)._

Examinations

Required

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

National Assessment Collaboration (NAC) OSCE result is REQUIRED. Both pages of
the report must be submitted.  Please note that Alberta OSCE results are no
longer valid.

Shared through physiciansapply.ca to your CaRMS application.

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

**As the MCCQE1 is a requirement for eligibility with the AIMG program,
applicants will have completed the MCCQE1. Please share your results to CaRMS
through physiciansapply.ca.**

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).



Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Please note that traditional narrative reference letters will NOT be accepted.
Please ask referees to submit a [Family Medicine Structures Reference
Form](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/sample-FM-structured-reference-letter-
CMG.pdf), available on the CaRMS website
[HERE](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/). **If you are
applying for more than one of the University of Alberta Rural and Remote
streams, the same reference forms can be used.**

**Forms completed by physicians with whom the candidate has worked in a
CLINICAL setting are preferred.  **

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Custom Résumé / CV

Detailed outline of medical practice experience

Please use the format below when providing details regarding your experiences.
Organize your experiences chronologically, with the most recent experiences at
the top of the document.

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sXtmww_4kGmyBU-
VrclwQ2TqPcKiKJJlkDGQxN0g9iU/edit?usp=sharing

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Instead of a traditional personal letter, please answer the following
**three** questions as your personal letter. When completing your personal
letter in the CaRMS.ca "Personal Letter" section, please copy and paste the
question stems above your answer.

1) Please highlight three things about yourself that you would like to ensure
we do not miss in our review. Items may include special skills or
accomplishments, or anything else you feel will strengthen your application to
UofA Family Medicine. Your answers will be used to evaluate your interest and
suitability for Rural Family Medicine as well as any connection to our
community. Maximum 75 words per item (Max 225 words total). Please do not
exceed the maximum word count.

2) First year family medicine residents are expected to be able to provide
hands-on patient care with minimal supervision, often from day one. This
involves independent decision making around diagnosis and management of acute
presentations (in hospital as well as in clinic) and may include ordering
investigations, prescribing medications or performing procedures. Please
describe how your clinical experience demonstrates your readiness for entry
into residency. Include where (the setting), when (how long ago and duration)
and what (examples of hands-on work as opposed to observing). (Max 100 words)

3) If you have applied to any of our rural programs, please describe any
special interest or connection you may have to a rural, regional or remote
community either in Alberta or not. Please use no more than 100 words. We
understand that not everybody who is interested in rural medicine actually
comes from a small town and as such, candidates without a specific connection
to a rural, regional or remote community will still be given consideration.



Alberta IMG Program (AIMGP) Multiple Mini Interview (MMI) results

**The AIMG Program will forward MMI results directly to our program. No action
is required from candidate in regards to MMI results.**

Optional - will be reviewed

Alberta IMG Clinical Assessment Placement

If you have completed a CAP, please submit a copy of your final report from
the AIMG Program's Clinical Assessment Placement.

Program questionnaire

**Sometimes applicants are worried about certain items or aspects of their
application. Using the[ Program Questionnaire
Template](https://drive.google.com/file/d/15dgZiafS0fXyOpNwdHd6sFPMAFh79HW6/view?usp=drive_link),
you may optionally upload this “Program Questionnaire” document to explain any
concerns you may have, for example, academic performance, professionalism
concerns, leaves or gaps in training, Family Medicine experience, or other. If
you have no concerns, please do not upload this document.**

Self-identification questionnaire

Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism in residency
selection. We invite applicants to optionally complete and include the CSIQ to
assist our understanding of the diversity of applicant pools, but the CSIQ is
not currently utilized as part of our application or selection process. We are
using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable opportunities
for all applicants.



* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

For details of our file review process see Selection Criteria.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 24, 2025
  * January 25, 2025
  * January 26, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: **Information about the interview process
will be sent directly to applicants if selected for an interview.**  
  
**All interviews will be conducted virtually. Please note that if you are
chosen for interviews and you have applied to both urban and rural programs,
you will only have one interview as they are combined.**  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The Department uses the file ranking
to determine a cut-off level for interview invitations.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

1) CaRMS Files

Factors that will be taken into consideration from the application file in
establishing the candidate's suitability in family medicine residency include:

  * Academic performance
  * Clinical performance
  * Family Medicine experience 
  * References
  * Rural interest/experience

2) Interviews

  * Communication skills
  * People skills
  * Desire to become a rural family physician
  * Maturity
  * Team player
  * Work ethic
  * Readiness for challenge
  * Self-directed learning
  * Suitability for small collegial program

## Program goals

Our goal is to produce competent, caring, full service family physicians with
a passion for serving and living in a rural or remote community.

The University of Alberta Family Medicine Program believes that the best
learning comes from exposure to as many clinical experiences as possible
including diverse settings and challenging levels of responsibility. We
encourage all applicants interested in rural/remote family medicine to apply
to our program as we believe training with us will prepare you for practice
anywhere in the country.

## Selection process goals

The University of Alberta rural family medicine ideal candidate:

  * Demonstrates a genuine passion for rural family medicine
  * Demonstrates a solid knowledge base and excellent critical thinking skills.
  * Demonstrates superior communication skills.
  * Demonstrates a deep sense of responsibility to the community, including diverse populations and rural and remote settings. 
  * Demonstrates adherence to the highest professional standards.



## File review process

Review team composition : Each file is reviewed independently by one faculty
member and one resident using a computer-based, evidence-informed scoring
rubric. Discrepancies or concerns are reviewed by a third party and taken to
the selection committee as appropriate.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 201 - 400  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  
The department endeavours to offer interviews to all eligible candidates, but
uses the file ranking to determine cut-off level if demand for interviews
exceeds resources.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Required; content evaluated as a supplement to the application   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Our program does not favour residents who do electives at our site or numerous electives in our specialty. We consider and value applicants with broad clinical experiences.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  FMProC: professional integrity, adaptability, team-working skills, empathy/compassion. NAC-OSCE- medical knowledge, communication skills MCCQE1 Scores are considered   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Work and volunteer experience(rural favoured); special skills and interests; community engagement   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Community service and engagement; organizations   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic proficiency, professionalism, leadership   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Required   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Medical expert, professionalism, communication, suitability for family medicine   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in (rural) primary care favoured.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic proficiency   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Electives will not be considered a requirement.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

It is beneficial to have completed electives and/or observerships in family
medicine somewhere in Canada. Experience in a broad range of medical settings
that demonstrates an interest in and aptitude for the values and skills of
family medicine will also be favoured.

Our program does not favour residents who do electives at our site or numerous
electives in our specialty. We consider and value applicants with broad
clinical experiences.







## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  not specifically evaluated at interview   
Collegiality |  behaviour, attitude and ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  strong verbal and non-verbal skills   
Health advocacy |  not specifically evaluated at interview   
Interest in the discipline |  understanding of and suitability for rural family medicine   
Interest in the program |  connection to and/or interest in rural community   
Leadership skills |  involvement in teaching, mentoring, organizations etc.   
Professionalism |  interactions with faculty, staff and residents   
Scholarly activities |  not specifically evaluated at interview   
Other interview component(s) |  Clinical reasoning skills   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  The University of Alberta Family Medicine Program believes that all
medical students should endeavour to work to their best abilities and behave
in a professional manner throughout their training. Solicited or unsolicited
feedback received regarding a candidate, in particular relating to the medical
expert, communicator or professional roles MAY be considered if it is felt to
be relevant and/or egregious and can be reasonably verified.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Learner Focused**

The Grande Prairie site is distinctly non-service-based. Residents select
clinical duties based specifically for their learning value, and are given the
flexibility to tailor clinical duties to their individual learning needs. With
only one family medicine resident on a given service at any one time, there is
little or no competition for procedures or other important learning
opportunities. Grande Prairie is fortunate to have a cohort of Royal College
specialists who have a particular interest in the teaching of family medicine
residents, tailoring their teaching to what rural family physicians need to
know.

**Flexibility**

Residents enjoy tremendous flexibility when selecting call days and holiday
time as well as choosing specific rural communities for their training,
tailoring their choices to individual learning needs and future practice
goals.

**Resident Well-being**

The Grande Prairie site prides itself on the emphasis we place on resident
wellbeing and the support we provide to our residents. As a small program,
Grande Prairie residents develop close, supportive relationships with their
fellow residents, as well as with preceptors and administrative staff. This is
actively promoted by the program, through weekly site meetings, and regular
social gatherings in which resident’s families are encouraged to participate.

In addition, Grande Prairie offers its residents a program called “Finding
Meaning in Medicine”. This program involves regular, structured gatherings in
which residents are invited to share with one another their personal responses
to challenging life experiences, allowing residents to provide each other with
mutual support.

**Enhanced Training**

Grande Prairie residents benefit from high-quality academic programming, with
regular academics supplemented by focused workshops and courses. Residents
will receive enhanced training in areas which are crucial for practice in a
rural setting.  These include;  CPoCUS IP certification, CASTED course,
regular practice of critical care simulations and procedures.

**Mentoring**

Grande Prairie residents have the opportunity to be actively involved in the
teaching of medical students and to form mentoring relationships with them,
with a small group of medical students from the University of Alberta choosing
to be placed in Grande Prairie for 8 months during their final year.

**Funding**

It is our belief that training in a rural stream should not be more expensive
than training in a large urban centre. For this reason, additional funding is
available for off site travel expenses and accommodations, as well as
attending conferences.

**Opportunities to Train in the North**

The University of Alberta continues to strive to be a leader in medical
education within Canada's north. To that end, the Grande Prairie site is
working to strengthen its connection with the Yellowknife training site. **New
for this year** , residents matching to Grande Prairie will be offered
preferential  access to rotations in Yellowknife, and in other communities
throughout the north (subject to capacity).

For residents who are truly interested in a career in rural family medicine,
we strongly believe that the training offered by the Grande Prairie site is
second-to-none.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

 **Rotations**

**First Year** | **Second Year**  
---|---  
4 wks Anesthesia | 8 wks Electives  
4 wks Electives | 8 wks Emergency Medicine plus Integrated Palliative Care  
4 wks General Surgery | 8 wks Internal Medicine  
8 wks Obstetrics & Gynecology | 4 wks Psychiatry  
4 wks Orthopedics | 8 wks Rural Family Medicine  
4 wks Pediatrics | 16 wks Rural Family Medicine  
4 wks Pediatric Emergency Medicine |    
4 wks Regional Family Medicine |    
16 wks Rural Family Medicine |    
  


**First Year**

Early in their residency training, each resident will spend a 4-week block in
their “home” family medicine clinic, working with a full-service family
physician from Grande Prairie or one of its neighbouring communities.
Throughout the first year, the resident will return to their home clinic on a
regular basis to maintain continuity in family medicine.

First year also includes a 16-week block of rural family medicine, in a
community of the resident’s choice.

The remainder of the year consists of time spent with Royal College
specialists within the city of Grande Prairie and 4-weeks of elective time.

**Second Year**

In the second year, residents receive even more exposure to rural family
practice, with one 8-week, and one 16-week placement in rural communities.

The remainder of the year consists of time spent with Royal College
specialists within the city of Grande Prairie. Eight weeks of elective time
allows residents to tailor the postgraduate experience to meet the needs of
the communities that they expect to serve. Interprovincial and international
electives are available.

**Academics**

The rural sites follow a structured, two-year academic curriculum, covering
the full range of topics necessary for the practice of rural family medicine.
Strong emphasis is placed on helping residents prepare to write their
licensing examination, with regular practice sessions.

  * Workshops and courses including; Evidence Based Medicine, Behavioural Medicine, CASTED, CPoCUS IP certification, Residents as Teacher, and Practice Management 
  * Monthly Academic days (in person)
  * Weekly hospital teaching rounds include; Family Medicine, Internal Medicine, and ER and topics
  * Lots of interactive, hands on, simulation and case based learning

Academics sessions are also a great way for all rural residents to stay
connected during residency.

**Life Support Courses**

Residents must be ACLS certified before starting the residency program. ALARM,
ATLS, NRP and PALS courses are all reimbursed to the resident when
successfully completed during residency.

**Research**

In the first year, each resident does a workshop in Evidence-Based Medicine
(EBM) and then throughout the year, utilizes these skills to complete four
small EBM research projects to answer clinical questions they have
encountered.  A Practice Quality Improvement (PQI) project is assigned in the
second year and is completed during the rural family medicine block.

Residents are expected to present their research projects to their colleagues.
Residents also have the option to present their research at the annual Family
Medicine Research day. Funding may be available to support the presentation of
resident projects at Family Medicine conferences and meetings, and research
assistance is accessible through the Department of Family Medicine and Alberta
Primary Care Research Unit.



* * *

# Training Sites

**Grande Prairie**

The city of Grande Prairie is home base for our residency program. Located
about 450 km northwest of Edmonton, with a population of about 70,000 people,
Grande Prairie is the economic hub of the “Peace Country” of northwestern
Alberta and northeastern B.C. The economy is driven by the oil and gas
industry, forestry, and agriculture. Grande Prairie’s modern airport offers
several flights per day to Edmonton and Calgary.

The new 172-bed Grande Prairie Regional Hospital is the site of all hospital-
based resident training in Grande Prairie. It is a regional referral centre
with a catchment area of approximately 300,000, and offers most specialty
services.  Family Physicians in Grande Prairie provide a substantial amount of
inpatient care, as well as care within the Emergency Department. Royal College
specialists often perform a traditional “consultant” role. The practice of
medicine in Grande Prairie offers an example of efficient and effective
coordination of care between family physicians and their specialist
colleagues.

With regard to life outside of medicine, the city of Grande Prairie is large
enough to offer an extremely wide array of amenities, while still maintaining
its small-town feel. It offers a great variety of recreational and leisure
pursuits, (including sports, music, and theatre) in addition to a wide range
of shopping and dining options. Some Grande Prairie highlights include the
Wapiti Nordic Ski Area, the Bear Creek Folk Music Festival, and the Eastlink
Centre recreational complex.

In addition, Grande Prairie offers easy access to the beauty and recreational
opportunities found in nearby mountain wilderness areas such as Grande Cache,
Tumbler Ridge and Jasper. Check out more things to do using this link: [GP
Tourism](https://gptourism.ca/)

Grande Prairie is also an excellent community in which to raise a family. In
addition to strong schools, Grande Prairie offers almost every imaginable
recreational activity for children of all ages, all within a community that
you can drive through in 15 minutes.

Residents are responsible for their own housing in Grande Prairie during
residency.

**Rural Sites**

Training in rural sites occupies 16 weeks of the first year and 24 weeks of
the second year. Rural sites are specifically chosen for the quality of
learning opportunities available. These sites are generally medium-sized
communities with active surgical and obstetrical programs in addition to a
high-volume emergency department. Residents will train with experienced full-
service rural family physician preceptors. The length of each rural placement
allows residents the opportunity to follow a panel of their own patients, with
progressively increasing independence and responsibility.

Residents enjoy considerable flexibility in their choice of the rural site and
many of the rural sites can accommodate more than one resident at a time. Find
out more about the rural training sites using this link: [Community Site
Profiles](https://www.ualberta.ca/medicine/programs/rural-
regional/communities.html)

Access to a vehicle is necessary during these rural rotations as public
transport is minimal in rural Alberta.

Accommodations for rotations outside of the regional home base of Grande
Prairie are arranged and funded by RhPAP. Accommodation at a rural site could
be an apartment, condo or a house. Accommodations suitable for a couple or a
family may be requested. Residents should not assume that their rural
accommodations will accept pets.

The program also provides or reimburses travel expenses for rural rotations
and mandatory academics.

Outside of their training, residents often find that they become quite
integrated into the local community, and are able to take advantage of the
unique social and recreational opportunities available at each site.

* * *

# Additional Information

**Travel Requirements**

It is expected that residents in the Rural programs utilize their own
transport when traveling to and from teaching sites, within Grande Prairie,
and for rotations outside of Grande Prairie. A current driver's license and
access to a vehicle are mandatory in the U of A Rural Residency Program due to
the distances between teaching sites.

**Rural residents will also be required to attend several**mandatory**
academic workshops during residency. These workshops are held in numerous
locations in Alberta and the Northwest Territories and can be up to a week in
length. Travel and accommodations costs are provided or reimbursed by the
program for the resident only.**

**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)**

The University of Alberta recognizes the importance of diversity, equity,
inclusivity, decolonization, and indigenization (EDIDI) and is committed to
the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry’s policy on anti-racism.

Further, the University is committed to implementing the Truth and
Reconciliation Commission calls to action that are relevant to education and
medicine.The pursuit of diversity and equitable opportunities is a core value
that guides our selection practices.

The University encourages applications from underrepresented groups, including
Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women,
persons of a minority gender identity or sexual orientation, and individuals
who would contribute to the diversity of the medical community. The CaRMS
Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) is an optional form that candidates
can fill out.

Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism in residency
selection. We invite applicants to optionally complete and include the CSIQ to
assist our understanding of the diversity of applicant pools, but the CSIQ is
not currently utilized as part of our application or selection process. We are
using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable opportunities
for all applicants.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26975?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26975