#  University of Alberta - Family Medicine - Edmonton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream including MOTP/MMTP for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 46

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Michelle Morros  

Address Family Medicine  
5-16 University Terrace  
University of Alberta  
Edmonton, Alberta, T6G 2T4  

Work  (780) 492-9961

Fax  (780) 492-8191

Websites of Interest [ Family Medicine Residents' Association
](http://www.fmra.ualberta.ca/)  
[ Dept of Family Medicine - Prospective Residents
](https://www.ualberta.ca/en/family-medicine/postgraduate/prospective-
residents/index.html)  
[ CanPrepp ](https://canprepp.ca/programs/university-of-alberta-family-
medicine-edmonton/)  
[ Department of Family Medicine Facebook ](http://facebook.com/UofAFM)  
[ Instagram ](http://instagram.com/ualberta_dofm/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Michelle Morros

Title: Program Director

  

Name: Erika Siroski

Title: Program Team Lead

Email: erika.siroski@ualberta.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

The most up-to-date information about our programs can be found on our
centralized website at: [https://www.ualberta.ca/family-
medicine/postgraduate/prospective-
residents/index.html](https://www.ualberta.ca/family-
medicine/postgraduate/prospective-residents/index.html)

Multiple opportunities to meet with our programs residents, faculty and
administrators will be available throughout the CaRMS season. Please see
[CANPREPP - Edmonton](https://canprepp.ca/programs/university-of-alberta-
family-medicine-edmonton/) for dates and registration.

**To complete an application for the University of Alberta's Family Medicine
Urban Program stream:**

1) You will need 3 referees to **submit** the [Family Medicine Structured
Reference Form](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/sample-FM-structured-reference-
letter-CMG.pdf).

2) You must **complete** the Personal Letter as detailed in the “Additional
Documents” section. Please note that the guidelines for the letter differ
slightly between our urban and rural streams.

3) You have the **option of completing** the CaRMS Self-Identification
Questionnaire (CSIQ). The CSIQ is not currently being used as part of the
application or selection process. More information can be found in the
“Additional Information” section.

4) You must **complete** the FMProC (Family Medicine Professional Choices)
test as noted in the “Examination” section.

**FMProC**

All Family Medicine Residency Programs across Canada use the FMProC (Family
Medicine Professional Choices) in their selection process, which is a Family
Medicine-context specific Situational Judgment Test.

**All applicants to the University of Alberta Family Medicine Residency
Program will be required to write the FMProC for their application to be
deemed complete**. More details and information about registration for FMProC
can be found here:[https://fmproc.com/](https://fmproc.com/).

**Applicants should register early and take the test early during the testing
periods posted.**

**CaRMS Round 1:**

**Registration** : Opens 11th September 2024 Wednesday 12 noon ET, closes 7th
November 2024 Thursday 10AM  ET.

**Test Window:** Opens 28th October Monday 8AM ET, closes 11th November Monday
10AM ET.

**CaRMS Round 2:**

**Registration:** Opens 25th February 2025 Tuesday 12 noon ET, closes 10th
March 2025 Monday 12 noon ET.

**Test Window:** Opens 27th February 2025 Thursday 10AM ET, closes; 12th March
2025 Wednesday 10AM ET.

  
  

* * *

# Return of Service

There are no return of service requirements at the University of Alberta.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

**_Candidates who match to our program are required to submit proof of ACLS
certification prior to their start date. Without ACLS certification,
candidates who match to our program will not be able to begin training on July
1._**



* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Please see the Alberta [provincial
criteria.](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/)

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) are required to provide proof of
English language proficiency as determined by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) who completed their medical education in
Quebec or at the University of Ottawa (French Stream) are required to provide
proof of English language proficiency as determined by the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

CMGs who completed their medical education at the University of Ottawa must
indicate on their application which stream they completed (either French or
English).

_For more information on the CPSA English language requirements, please visit
the  [CPSA website](https://cpsa.ca/physicians/registration/english-language-
proficiency/)._

Examinations

Required

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).



Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Please note that traditional narrative reference letters will NOT be accepted.
Please ask referees to submit a [FAMILY MEDICINE STRUCTURED REFERENCE
FORM](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/sample-FM-structured-reference-letter-
CMG.pdf), available on the CaRMS website.

Forms completed by physicians with whom the candidate has worked in a CLINICAL
setting are preferred.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Instead of a traditional personal letter, please answer the following **two**
questions as your personal letter. When completing your personal letter in the
CaRMS.ca "Personal Letter" section, please copy and paste the question stems
above your answer.

1) Please highlight three things about yourself that you would like to ensure
we do not miss in our review. Items may include special skills or
accomplishments, or anything else you feel will strengthen your application to
UofA Family Medicine. Maximum 75 words per item (Max 225 words total). Please
do not exceed the maximum word count.

2) Please tell us about a passion or hobby that you enjoy outside of medicine.
(Max 100 words).



Optional - will be reviewed

Program questionnaire

**Sometimes applicants are worried about certain items or aspects of their
application. Using the[ Program Questionnaire
Template](https://drive.google.com/file/d/15dgZiafS0fXyOpNwdHd6sFPMAFh79HW6/view?usp=drive_link),
you may optionally upload this “Program Questionnaire” document to explain any
concerns you may have, for example, academic performance, professionalism
concerns, leaves or gaps in training, Family Medicine experience, or other. If
you have no concerns, please do not upload this document.**

Self-identification questionnaire

**Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism in residency
selection. We invite applicants to optionally complete and include the CSIQ to
assist our understanding of the diversity of applicant pools, but the CSIQ is
not currently utilized as part of our application or selection process. We are
using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable opportunities
for all applicants.**

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

For details of our file review process, see "selection criteria".

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 18, 2025
  * January 19, 2025
  * January 22, 2025
  * January 26, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Family Medicine interview dates in
Edmonton: January 18, 19, 22 and 26  
  
Dress code is business casual, even via virtual interview.  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Applicants will be able to schedule
their own interview date and time. Interview status will be updated on
December 17, 2024.  Scheduling will begin on **December 18, 2024 at 6:00 p.m.
(MT)**  
  
Details regarding the interview process: We will offer virtual interviews
only. The department endeavors to offer interviews to all eligible candidates,
but uses file scores to determine a cut-off level if demand for interviews
exceeds resources.  
  
During the interview period, opportunities will be offered for applicants to
meet with faculty and residents, as well as to learn about the program.  
  
**** ****  
  
For further details of our interview process, see "Selection Criteria".  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

#1 - CaRMS Files

Factors that will be taken into consideration from the application file in
establishing the candidate's suitability in family medicine residency include:

  * Academic performance
  * Clinical performance
  * Family Medicine experience (family medicine electives will be considered but are not required)
  * References
  * Professionalism

#2 - Interviews

  * Communication skills
  * People skills
  * Desire to become a family physician
  * Maturity
  * Team player
  * Work ethic
  * Self-directed learning

## Program goals

Our **GOAL** is to produce competent, caring, full service family physicians
with a passion for serving their community.** **

The University of Alberta Family Medicine Program believes that the best
learning comes from exposure to as many clinical experiences as possible
including diverse settings and challenging levels of responsibility. We
encourage all medical students interested in family medicine to apply to our
program as we believe training with us will prepare you for practice anywhere
in the country.



## Selection process goals

The University of Alberta ideal candidate:

1\. Demonstrates a genuine passion for family medicine.

2\. Demonstrates a solid knowledge base and excellent critical thinking
skills.

3\. Demonstrates superior communication skills.

4\. Demonstrates a deep sense of responsibility to the community, including
diverse populations and multiple settings.

5\. Demonstrates adherence to the highest professional standards.



## File review process

Review team composition : Each file is reviewed independently by one faculty
member and one resident using a computer-based, evidence-informed scoring
rubric. Discrepancies or concerns are reviewed by a third party and taken to
the selection committee as appropriate.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 401 - 600  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  
The department endeavours to offer interviews to all eligible candidates.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Required: content evaluated as a supplement to the application   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Our program does not favour residents who do electives at our site or numerous electives in our specialty. We consider and value applicants with broad clinical experiences.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  FMProC: professional integrity, adaptability, team-working skills, empathy/compassion   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Work and volunteer experience; special skills and interests; community engagement   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Community service and engagement; family medicine oriented organizations and associations   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evaluated for academic performance and professionalism   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Required as detailed   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Required: THREE STRUCTURED REFERENCE FORMS. Traditional narrative letters of reference will not be reviewed.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Not required   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evaluated for academic proficiency   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Electives will not be considered as part of the
interview offer criteria.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Our program does not favour residents who do electives at our site or numerous
electives in our specialty. We consider and value applicants with broad
clinical experiences.



## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Not specifically evaluated at interview   
Collegiality |  Behaviour, attitude and ability to interact well with others   
Communication skills |  Strong verbal and non-verbal skills   
Health advocacy |  Not specifically evaluated in interview   
Interest in the discipline |  Understanding of family medicine   
Interest in the program |  Connection to and/or interest in our community   
Leadership skills |  Involvement in teaching, mentoring, organizations etc.   
Professionalism |  Interactions with faculty, staff and residents   
Scholarly activities |  Not specifically evaluated in interview   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  The University of Alberta Family Medicine Program believes that all
medical students should endeavour to work to their best abilities and behave
in a professional manner throughout their training. Solicited or unsolicited
feedback received regarding a candidate, in particular relating to the medical
expert, communicator or professional roles MAY be considered only if it can be
reasonably verified.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**We are Caring, Dedicated, and Responsive**  
The main strength of our program is in its personnel. Our program leadership,
administrators, preceptors, residents, and in some instances our patients,
exhibit a true desire to provide excellent clinical care and prioritize our
resident’s training. Our program is exceptionally receptive to feedback and
responsive. Annually we hold a “resident feedback” session during an Academic
Day, to field organized feedback regarding areas of strength and improvement
from the entire resident cohort.  Examples of changes made to prioritize
resident learning and wellbeing include:

  * Addition and/or removal of rotations as learning experiences and clinical expectations change
  * Increasing flexibility of vacation scheduling
  * Simplifying residents’ experience in tracking graduation requirements
  * Introducing a “Transition to Residency” curriculum in block 1 of the R1 year
  * Increasing program assistance to Family Medicine Residents’ Association (FMRA) activity

****  
******Residents are a Priority**  
Residents are treated with the utmost respect as junior colleagues in our
program. We respect your status as adult, self-driven learners by providing
flexibility through electives, horizontal programming, and options for
integration.  We recognize that the breadth of Family Medicine’s scope can be
intimidating. To that end, our curriculum allows ample opportunities for
exposure to diverse clinical settings, including acute care. Maintaining a
balance between acute and outpatient care, resident wellness, and the clinical
confidence of our graduates is one of our highest priorities. We respect that
residency training can be demanding. To provide dedicated, individualized
support, we have a designated Assistant Program Director, Resident Support
whose main focus is to support residents in need, and to provide guidance for
navigating residency. Flex days, float days, educational days, and a recent
increase in vacation flexibility are additional ways we support resident
wellness. Post-call taxi rides (both to and from the hospital) are reimbursed
to ensure resident safety. ****  
******Our Graduates Are Prepared**  
Our curriculum is deliberate in its design to ensure residents leave our
program prepared to practice in any setting. Exposure to a solid foundation of
family medicine, bolstered by experiences in rural, acute, and specialty care
help to equip our graduates with the competencies they need to confidently
provide care to their patients and communities. Family physicians learn
throughout their career, and our curriculum helps our residents build skills
to continually adapt to a dynamic medical landscape. ****  
******Our Residents have Fun**  
Our program leans heavily on a sense of community. We have an active Family
Medicine Residents Association (FMRA) with regular social activities, a
welcome BBQ each summer, and a graduation celebration at the end of training.
Post-Covid19, we are actively reviving in-person, social activities to ensure
our residents enjoy time together, outside of clinical settings. Come join our
family - we would love to have you! **Clinical Highlights:**

  * Fantastic and enthusiastic preceptors who are passionate about teaching.
  * Continuity Clinics - 1 full-day back to your home family medicine clinic every 2 weeks.
  * Tailored Rural Family Medicine - up to 5 months of training can be rural.
  * Reproductive and sexual health integrated into your family medicine experience.
  * Optional integrated programming experiences in psychiatry, palliative care, care of the elderly, PCHT, etc.
  * Horizontal electives throughout Family Medicine rotations.
  * Electronic medical records in all Family Medicine Centres. 
  * NetCare online health records connecting Alberta Health Services medical centres and hospitals.
  * Connect-Care - Integrated electronic medical records across most hospital systems in Edmonton allowing dynamic, real-time informational continuity. [Connect Care](https://www.albertahealthservices.ca/cis/cis.aspx)
  * Interprovincial and international elective opportunities are available to residents.

  
  
  
---  
  
  
  
  
* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**First-Year Curriculum**  
---  
  | 

  * Foundations - 4 weeks (Block 1) - Completion of required courses (First Aid, NRP, PALS), workshops, and a general transition to residency.
  * Family Medicine - 20 weeks minimum -integrating maternity and newborn care, Behavioural Medicine workshops and opportunities for horizontal electives
  * Adult In-patient Medicine - 8 weeks. Experience will be divided between Internal Medicine and Family Medicine In-patient units.  
  * CCU - 4 weeks
  * Pediatrics - 6 weeks total  -  4 weeks Peds ER, 2 weeks community hospital based
  * Emergency - 4 weeks 
  * Obstetrics - 2 weeks
  * Vacation - 4 weeks - Can be taken all at once or split into 2 - 2 week 
  * Integrated Options - Care of the Elderly, Palliative Care, Psychiatry, Primary Care Hospital Teams. Internal applications for integration are reviewed once accepted to the program.** **
  * Continuity clinics - full day clinics every 2 weeks throughout residency at your home site for teaching and clinic continuity

  
  
**Second-Year Curriculum**  
  | 

  * Family Medicine - up to 16 weeks of family medicine may be spent with either urban or rural based community family physician(s). A minimum of 8 weeks of rural family medicine is required, but all 16 weeks can be done in rural location(s) should you choose.
  * Geriatrics - 4 weeks
  * Emergency - 4 weeks 
  * General Surgery - 4 weeks
  * MSK/Ortho Selective - 2 weeks 
  * Palliative Care - 2 weeks
  * Psychiatry - 4 weeks
  * Electives/Selectives - minimum of 12 weeks
  * Vacation - 4 weeks Can be taken all at once or split into 2 - 2 week 
  * Continuity clinics \- bi-weekly full day clinics at your home site for teaching and clinic continuity
  * Selectives can include: Family Medicine, Obstetrics, Primary Care Obstetrics, Intensive Care (ICU), Family Medicine Hospital or In-patient Team, Palliative Care, Inner City Medicine, Anesthesia, Long Term Care and others as approved individually.
  * Electives are chosen individually by each resident with the guidance of the resident's faculty advisor. Electives can include but are not limited to: Dermatology, Sports Medicine, Rheumatology, ER, Child Psychiatry, Cardiology, Diabetic Care, Ophthalmology, Plastics, Urology, etc.  They may include interprovincial and international experiences if approved.

  
  
**Academic Curriculum**  
  |  **Foundations Block "Transition to Residency"** The first block in R1 is dedicated to transitioning to residency. This will prioritize familiarization with your home clinic and faculty advisor, organized completion of mandatory requirements such as simulations, Pediatric Advanced Life Support (PALS), EBM workshop and others. This block also allows residents to connect with each other and build community and support.   **Academic Days (AD)** The Academic curriculum consists of 24 rotating monthly topics on a two-year schedule. Monthly academic days include small group case-based learning, journal review, ethics cases, practice exam (SAMP) questions, literature updates, and didactic lectures by family doctors and other specialists and professionals. We use online tools, including recorded video lectures to enhance learning. **Acute Care Simulation Sessions** **Exam Preparation -** Simulated Office Orals (SOO) practice exam workshops for R2’s Monthly practice SAMP questions for both years. **Evidence-Based Medicine Workshop (EBM) (2 days)** **Procedural Skills workshops** \- Including (but not limited to) IUDs, Endometrial biopsies, obstetric perineal repairs, central lines, lumbar punctures, joint injections, skin biopsies and excisions, and more. **Behavioural Medicine Workshop -** training in communication skills, ethics, and physician wellness **Resident As Teacher (RAT)** \- Residents will have sessions and education on how to be an effective teacher, and teach small group sessions to Y1 to Y4 medical students. **Practice Management   \- **Workshop for R2’s as they transition to independent practice **CASTED Course -** Enhanced Orthopedics Training **Point of Care Ultrasound Intro Course -** Introduction to the use of Ultrasound in Primary Care **Planetary Health** \- new initiatives being developed in collaboration with our Yellowknife stream. **Other Postgraduate Courses:** ACLS is required before a resident starts the program on July 1st.  ALARM, PALS and NRP courses are mandatory and will be coordinated with the 1st R1 “Foundations” block. Costs will be reimbursed by Alberta Health Services upon successful completion.  
  
**Research Opportunities**  
  |  All residents are required to complete **Practice Quality Improvement** projects to develop skills required to implement the process of quality assessment and improvement in the practice setting.   Residents interested in developing research skills have the additional optional opportunity to do a **research project**. The research project is supervised by a faculty member. Residents have the opportunity to do a **research elective** in either the first or second year of the residency program. During year 1, the research elective is offered as a 2-week horizontal elective, while in year 2 it can be 2-6 weeks. The research elective can be adapted to the needs of the resident. The **Family Medicine Research Day** occurs each year in June. Faculty members and residents have the opportunity to present their scholarly work (oral presentation and posters).  **The**Research Committee** of the Department is comprised of faculty and resident representation (one first year and one second year resident representative). The committee meets monthly during September to June and acts as a resource to family medicine residents on matters related to research and scholarly activity.**  
  
**Special Events and Conferences**  
  |  **In September, residents can participate in the Wilderness Retreat, which has been very popular every year and focuses on wilderness or remote medicine managing with limited resources in austere environments.  In addition, residents are allotted some money each year for conference registration fees.  In June, we celebrate the completion of residency with a Graduation dinner. **  
  


* * *

# Training Sites

**Teaching sites:**

  * Grey Nuns Family Medicine Centre
  * MacEwan University Health Centre
  * Misericordia Family Medicine Centre
  * Northeast Family Medicine Centre
  * Family Medicine Clinic - Kaye Edmonton Clinic
  * _Westview* Physician Collaborative Community Teaching Sites in Spruce Grove_
  * Community teaching sites (including those in St. Albert*, Leduc*, south and west Edmonton areas) affiliate with core sites for administration and academic activities. 

*Westview, Leduc and St. Albert sites are considered suburban or rural-like in their settings, utilize their local community hospitals, and each is located within a 15 minute commute from the city boundaries.

Inner City Stream:  Based at Radius Community Health Centre.

Women's Health Stream: Based at St. Albert Medical.

All residents enter an internal match after CaRMS for their choice of site.
Requests are considered based on interest and plans for future practice and
accommodated as much as possible.

**Other resources:**

Outpatient departments, family physicians' offices in Edmonton and rural
locations, specialists' offices, and other community hospitals outside major
metropolitan areas.

* * *

# Additional Information

**Driver's License:** A current driver's license and access to a vehicle are
mandatory due to the distance between teaching sites.

**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)**

The University of Alberta recognizes the importance of diversity, equity,
inclusivity, decolonization, and indigenization (EDIDI) and is committed to
the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry’s policy on anti-racism.

Further, the University is committed to implementing the Truth and
Reconciliation Commission calls to action that are relevant to education and
medicine.The pursuit of diversity and equitable opportunities is a core value
that guides our selection practices.

**** ****

The University encourages applications from underrepresented groups, including
Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women,
persons of a minority gender identity or sexual orientation, and individuals
who would contribute to the diversity of the medical community. The CaRMS
Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) is an optional form that candidates
can fill out.

Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism in residency
selection. We invite applicants to optionally complete and include the CSIQ to
assist our understanding of the diversity of applicant pools, but the CSIQ is
not currently utilized as part of our application or selection process. We are
using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable opportunities
for all applicants.



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26418?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26418