#  University of Saskatchewan - Family Medicine - Regina - Urban

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Competitive Stream for All  

##  Last approved on September 06, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Sheila Smith  

Address Department of Family Medicine  
Regina Centre Crossing  
#172 - 1621 Albert Street  
Regina , Saskatchewan, S4P 2S5  

Work  306-766-0448

Work  306-766-0473

Websites of Interest [ Find Your Place in Regina
](https://medicine.usask.ca/familymedicine/learners/regina.php)  
[ Facebook - USask Family Med ](https://www.facebook.com/usaskfamilymed)  
[ Instagram - USask Family Med ](https://www.instagram.com/usaskfamilymed/)  
[ City of Regina ](https://www.regina.ca/)  
[ Tourism Regina ](https://tourismregina.com/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Megan Clark

Title: Regina Site Director

  

Name: Tracy Arnold

Title: Program Administrator

Email: regina.fm.pgme@usask.ca

Phone: 306-766-0448

  

Name: Taryn Ashbee

Title: Program Administrative Assistant

Email: regina.fm.pgme@usask.ca

Phone: 306-766-0473

  

* * *

# Important Information

## Welcome from Regina Site Director

Since the 1970s, the Regina family medicine program has provided flexible,
hands-on generalist training in a tertiary centre, a small city with a small-
town feel. Program graduates have highlighted the program’s supportive nature,
flexibility, and strong base in generalist family medicine training with the
opportunity to pursue unique interests. Gynecology, obstetrics,
musculoskeletal medicine, and health equity are especial strengths of the
site. Program graduates practice in various environments, from urban
generalist to rural/remote to emergency medicine to hospitalist practices.
Even on “off-service” rotations, many preceptors are family medicine trained
(including on hospitalist, emergency medicine, palliative care, and obstetrics
rotations).  

Best of luck in the match process.  

**Welcome from the Program Director**

Welcome to the University of Saskatchewan Family Medicine Program! My name is
Sheila Smith and I will be your program director. We want to support you to do
your best work. Our program provides opportunities to practice inclusive and
equitable care to our patients and our communities. You will experience
learning environments that are strengthened by our diverse and inclusive
teams. Our program is constantly learning and innovating and we welcome you to
be part of our journey.

## **Important Information for Applicants**

The Family Medicine competitive stream is open to CMGs and IMGs/graduates of
US osteopathic medical schools. Applicants are responsible for reviewing the
[University of Saskatchewan Policies for the R1
Match](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/saskatchewan/) to determine if they meet all requirements and
eligibility criteria. Failure to meet or provide proof of any of the stated
requirements or documents may result in an applicant’s file not being reviewed
or ranked.

**Casper Test**  
All applicants must complete the Casper test. Please refer to the Examinations
section for more information.

**Family Medicine Professional Choices Assessment (FMProC)  
** All applicants must complete the Family Medicine Professional Choices
Assessment (FMProC). Please refer to the Examinations section for more
information.

**Licensing**  
Matched applicants must be eligible for an educational register license with
the [College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan](http://www.cps.sk.ca)
(CPSS) for a July 1st start date and must maintain eligibility for an
educational register license throughout their entire training program. Any
delays in providing all required documentation to CPSS may result in the
following:

  * delay in issuance of an educational register license and a delay in start of postgraduate training beyond July 1st
  * release from CaRMS match contract

Applicants will be required to provide proof of proficiency in the English
language to meet licensing requirements of the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Saskatchewan. More information is available under Supporting
Documentation-Language Proficiency.

**NOTE:**  Applicants who are considering a delay to their convocation date
must be aware that a medical degree cannot be issued to a student until they
have convocated. CPSS bylaws require that new residents must have received
their medical degree prior to the commencement of residency training. Choosing
to delay convocation will affect a matched applicant’s ability to commence
their residency training program in Saskatchewan on July 1. Please refer to
the [U of S CaRMS Deferral Policy](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/carms-
deferral-of-training-start-date---match-violation-release-from-
match.php#relatedForms) for additional information.

**Credentialing  
** In order to commence and continue in Postgraduate Medical Education
training programs, matched applicants must be eligible for and maintain
privileges within the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) as determined by
their credentialing process. The Saskatchewan Health Authority requires
successful applicants to submit immunization records and a current criminal
record check as part of their pre-resident application for appointment.
Applicants with criminal records will be considered on a case by case basis by
the College of Medicine in consultation with the Health Authority.

Any delays in providing all required documentation to the Saskatchewan Health
Authority may result in a delay in the start of postgraduate training beyond
July 1st.

**Resident Boot Camp  
** All matched applicants must attend a mandatory three-day Resident Boot Camp
scheduled for late June. The purpose of the Boot Camp is to provide additional
support to trainees as they transition to residency by introducing and
consolidating baseline skills and knowledge needed to flourish during their
residency years. The program will include interactive case-based and hands-on
practice sessions. Stipends will be provided to trainees.

Attendance is required and absences are only permitted in exceptional
circumstances, with prior approval of PGME.

**Advanced Cardiac Life Support**  
Matched applicants are required to provide proof of ACLS certification
(current as of July 1, 2025) to the PGME office prior to starting their
training program. The ACLS course must be endorsed by the Heart and Stroke
Foundation of Canada and/or the American Heart Association. ACLS training that
is not certified by these two organizations and/or is completed entirely
through an online course will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for
all costs associated with obtaining ACLS certification.

**Personal Transportation**  
Applicants who match to the Family Medicine residency training program are
required to have a valid driver’s license and access to a vehicle in order to
drive to mandatory rural and remote educational experiences. Residents are
also expected to be able to travel within communities for educational
experiences. Applicants should be aware that not all training sites have
access to public transportation and residents are required to provide their
own transportation. Residents receive mileage reimbursement as per PGME
guidelines.

* * *

# Return of Service

**CMGs/USMGs:**  There is no Return of Service requirement for CMGs/USMGs.

**IMGs:  **IMGs (including graduates from US osteopathic medical schools) who
match to Family Medicine positions in the first or second iteration of the
CaRMS match will be required to sign a Return of Service Agreement with the
Province of Saskatchewan. The Return of Service Agreement must be signed
before the matched applicant can commence their Family Medicine residency
training program. Applicants who do not sign their Return of Service Agreement
prior to July 1 will not be allowed to commence their residency training
program.

If a candidate does not fulfill their return of service commitment in a
Saskatchewan community, they will be required to repay their funding (resident
salary and associated training costs) plus accumulated interest.

Click [here ](https://medicine.usask.ca/documents/pgme/international-medical-
graduate-img-agreement.pdf)to view a copy of the Return of Service Agreement
for Saskatchewan. For more information on the return of service commitment,
please contact:

Bev Horne  
Provincial Practitioner Staff Affairs  
Saskatchewan Health Authority  
Email:  [beverly.horne@saskdocs.ca](mailto:beverly.horne@saskdocs.ca)

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

  

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

All applicants must be Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents at the time of
application and must submit a notarized/certified photocopy of one of the
accepted citizenship documents.

Proof of citizenship must be current at the time of application and expired
documents will not be accepted.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum of 7.0 in each of the components

**Language assessment document accepted:**

  1. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on paper at a test venue
  2. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on a computer at a test venue
  3. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine at Home

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of B

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of 9 in all sections

Applicants may be required to provide proof of proficiency in the English
language to meet licensing requirements of the [College of Physicians and
Surgeons (CPSS) of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Licensure/Requirements_Content/English_Language_Proficiency.aspx).

Applicants who are required to complete a language exam must submit a valid
test score in their CaRMS application **by the deadline for submission and
assignment of applications and documents.**  Applicants who do not provide
acceptable proof of language proficiency, if required, will not be ranked.

Applicants who are required to complete a language exam must meet all of the
criteria in one of the IELTS, OET or CELPIP examinations. Please note that
results from examinations cannot be combined, unless the testing institution
offers a sub-test.  
NOTE: Only OET offers sub-tests. The CPSS will accept sub-tests obtained
within the same 24-month period as the original OET exam was sat.

Please direct any questions about language requirements to
[della.toews@usask.ca](mailto:della.toews@usask.ca). Applicants should not
contact CPSS directly about their eligibility for licensure.

**CMG Applicants  
** CMGs/USMGs who completed their medical education at an English medical
school in Canada or the US **are not**  required to submit proof of English
language proficiency.

**Canadian applicants with medical education from the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)  are required
**to meet the English language proficiency requirements of the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan and must complete one of the language
exams listed above.

**IMG Applicants  
** International medical graduates (IMGs) **are not** required to provide a
language exam if their medical education was obtained in one of the following
countries or Caribbean Islands identified by the Federation of Medical
Regulatory Authorities of Canada as having English as a first or native
language:

  * Anguilla
  * Antigua & Barbuda
  * Australia
  * Bahamas
  * Barbados
  * Bermuda
  * British Virgin Islands
  * Dominica
  * Grenada
  * Grenadines
  * Ireland
  * Jamaica
  * New Zealand
  * Singapore
  * South Africa
  * Kitts & Nevis
  * Lucia
  * Vincent
  * Trinidad & Tobago
  * United Kingdom
  * United States of America
  * US Virgin Islands

Applicants whose medical education was in a country not listed above will be
required to complete a language exam.

The following documents **will not**  be accepted as proof of English language
proficiency for IMG applicants:

  * a copy of the FAIMER page for the applicant's medical school
  * a letter of English attestation from the Dean of the applicant's medical school
  * a Canadian high school transcript

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).

Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

Exam results and supplemental feedback reports must be submitted by the File
Review deadline. All licensing exams are administered by the Medical Council
of Canada. Any clarification or questions should be directed to the
[MCC](https://mcc.ca/).

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

Exam results and supplemental feedback reports must be submitted by the File
Review deadline. All licensing exams are administered by the Medical Council
of Canada. Any clarification or questions should be directed to the
[MCC](https://mcc.ca/).

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Family Medicine programs have adopted the Canadian Family Medicine Structured
Reference Form (SRF). All FM programs requesting a reference will require the
form. Traditional narrative letters will NOT be accepted. Should your referee
submit a traditional letter it will not be reviewed and your application may
be deemed incomplete.  New references are mandatory with each admissions
cycle.

Three (3) reference letters using the Canadian Family Medicine Structured
Reference Form are required. Please submit the same reference letters to each
site you apply to. Applicants should familiarize themselves with [how to
request](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408366069133-How-do-I-
request-a-Family-Medicine-Structured-Reference-Letter-) a Family Medicine
Structured Reference Letter on the CaRMS website. Applicants can direct their
referees to the [example](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/sample-FM-structured-
reference-letter-CMG.pdf) of the reference letter on the CaRMS website.
Letters by Primary Care Providers are strongly recommended.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter describing yourself and your career interest is required.
Please address the personal letter to the overall program "Dr. Sheila Smith
and Selection Committee" and NOT to each site. Submit the same personal letter
to each site you are applying to.

As Family Physicians, we are interested in learning about you in the same way
we are interested in learning about the context of our patients.  Your letter
must include your motivations for applying to Family Medicine and selecting
the University of Saskatchewan for training. Please also reflect on qualities
that are critical to being a Family Physician, service to rural, remote and
underserved populations and strengths that you will contribute to our program.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Applicants who have attended more than one medical school are required to
submit the transcript from **each**  medical school they have attended.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Applicants who have attended more than one medical school are required to
submit the MSPR from **each**  medical school they have attended.

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Applicants who have attended more than one medical school are required to
submit the following documents from **each**  medical school they have
attended:

  * Transcript
  * Medical student performance record (Dean's letter)
  * Diploma/degree (if granted)

Matched applicants who are graduating in the spring will need to provide a
copy of their medical degree/diploma to the PGME office and
[CPSS](https://www.cps.sk.ca/) prior to the start of residency training.

Matched IMG applicants must have their medical education documents verified by
[physiciansapply.ca](https://physiciansapply.ca/). The verification process
can take several months and applicants are advised to contact
[physiciansapply.ca](https://physiciansapply.ca/) at the time of application.

Optional - will be reviewed

RCPSC Assessment of Training

Copy of any rulings from the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Canada relating to assessment of previous training (if available) and/or copy
of any assessments from Canadian standardized IMG assessment programs (if
available).

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025
  * January 25, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interview dates:  
  

  * January 22, 23, 24, 25, 2025

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Details regarding interview date and
time will be forwarded upon notification of the applicant. One interview will
be offered for all sites on a first come first serve basis. Our interview team
consists of program and site leadership, designated faculty and residents and
program administrators. Applicants rotate through four 15-20 minute interviews
conducted by faculty and resident interviewers. Interviewers may be from
various sites. Applicants must attend all interview stations to be considered.  
  
CaRMS has mandated that only virtual interviews can be offered for the 2025
match; in person interviews cannot be considered for any applicants. Virtual
interviews will be conducted using Zoom.  
  
During the interview period, those applicants selected for interviews will be
offered the following information sessions and wellness opportunities.  
  

  1. Site lounges - these sessions are hosted by the sites as an informal way to provide site specific information and opportunities for personal and focused interaction.
  2. Community spaces - these sessions are hosted by the University of Sasktachewan medical school clubs and are offered as safe spaces for applicants. To protect applicant confidentiality the program is not involved beyond arranging for hosts to be available and providing applicants with information to access the spaces.

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

The goal of the Department of Family Medicine and the Postgraduate Family
Medicine Residency Program at the University of Saskatchewan is to produce
caring and compassionate Family Physicians who are ready to provide
comprehensive care to all patients in Saskatchewan, especially those serving
rural, remote and underserved populations.

Our mission is to create, teach and develop the knowledge, skills and
attitudes specific to the discipline of Family Medicine.

  * We will work to optimize health by demonstrating excellence and innovation in service, education and scholarly activity.
  * We will provide university, hospital and community-based education consistent with the principles of Family Medicine.
  * We will focus our efforts on working with communities in response to their health needs.

## Selection process goals

Identify applicants who have shown an interest in and commitment to generalist
Family Medicine.

Identify applicants who have shown an interest in and commitment to rural,
remote and underserved populations.

Identify applicants and who have clinical and life experiences that will
assist them in understanding the context of their patients, and adapt to the
communities they will train in and serve, in the future.

Identify applicants who are self-directed that seek out feedback and
opportunities to learn.

Identify applicants who work well with other residents, patients, and staff
and team members.

Identify applicants who are interested in providing care across the family
medicine professional profile as described in the practice narratives found in
the CFPC's Residency Training Profile.

Identify applicants who can demonstrate attributes highlighted in the CFPC
Skill Dimensions and CanMEDS-FM 2017/2025 roles.

Identify applicants who are eligible for licensure in the province of
Saskatchewan and have an interest in providing primary care to the patients of
Saskatchewan.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team consists of the program and site
leadership, designated faculty and program administrators.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 601 +  
Our program accepts applications from IMGs in the first round of the match.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  
Resource limitations may result in the inability to interview all qualified
candidates.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Demonstrate a high level of achievement in diverse activities and interests. Demonstrate evidence of life and work experience that indicates applicant's ability to adapt to future communities they will train and serve in.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Elective experience in Saskatchewan is encouraged, if possible, but is not significantly weighted in terms of selection criteria for interviews or positions.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  All applicants must complete a Casper exam to be eligible for consideration. The PGME Office has provided programs with guidelines on how scoring can be used for file review and ranking. The FMProC exam is also mandatory for our program. It is for information only and will not be weighted until it is validated further. IMG applicants (and graduates of US osteopathic schools) are required to pass the MCCQE1 and NAC exams.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Demonstrate evidence of varied interests outside of medicine.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Demonstrate evidence of leadership experience.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evaluated for any identified concerns regarding the applicant, as well as exceptional achievements.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstrate evidence of suitability for generalist Family Medicine and experience with rural, remote and underserved populations. Demonstrate evidence of life and work experience that indicates applicant's ability to understand the context of their patients and adapt to future communities they will train and serve in. Evaluated for style.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Demonstrate evidence of suitability for generalist Family Medicine and experience with rural, remote and underserved populations.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Demonstrate evidence of Family Medicine scholarly work experience.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evaluated for indications of difficulty with the academic requirements for a medical degree.   
Other file component(s) |  Candidates are assessed for their willingness to practice in Saskatchewan, as well as their ties to the province.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  Applicants rotate through four 15-20 minute interviews conducted by
faculty and resident interviewers. Interviewers may be from various sites.
Applicants must attend all interview stations to be considered.  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Demonstrate effective collaborative skills.   
Collegiality |  Demonstrate collegiality.   
Communication skills |  Demonstrate effective communication skills.   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrate health advocacy.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrate interest in generalist Family Medicine and/or rural Family Medicine.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrate interest in the University of Saskatchewan's Family Medicine program and experience with rural, remote and underserved populations.   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrate effective leadership skills.   
Professionalism |  Display professional behaviour.   
Scholarly activities |  Demonstrate interest in life long learning.   
Other interview component(s) |  Demonstrate understanding of cultural safety and sensitivity.   
Demonstrate clinical reasoning and effective integration of clinical
information.  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  All interactions with the program, program staff, preceptors, and
residents may be considered in the application and interview process.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  All interactions exhibited outside the interview process with our
program, program staff, preceptors, and residents may also be considered.
Final eligibility for ranking is determined by the selection committee which
has representatives from all sites. A final assessment is made as to whether
the applicant is considered a good overall fit for each site.  
  
Our program strives to be inclusive. All applicants, regardless of gender,
gender identity, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity or religious affiliation,
are encouraged to apply.  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

## Regina

Why should you apply to our program? With a metropolitan area population of
almost 250,000, Regina is Saskatchewan's capital and second largest city, with
a small-town feel! It’s big enough to have substantial patient volume in a
tertiary centre to be able to learn and grow as a resident, but it’s also
small enough that you receive one-on-one learning from supervising physicians
on most of your rotations, and you aren’t competing with other learners for
clinical opportunities. Staff are very collegial, supportive, and genuinely
invested in teaching. Family physicians in Regina enjoy a hands-on,
comprehensive generalist practice, with the option of tailoring their practice
to their diverse interests, and residents are encouraged to explore individual
interests.  

Our Family Medicine “headquarters” is the Family Medicine Unit - a clinic
staffed by faculty who practice general Family Medicine in addition to
providing care focusing on women’s health, sports medicine, geriatrics,
transgender medicine, and inner-city populations. The Family Medicine Unit has
a procedure clinic, a full-time Registered Nurse, an in-house pharmacist,
mental health services, and exceptional administrative staff that enable
residents to prioritize both learning and patient care. Residents are also
provided opportunities to learn from one another and to teach medical
students.  On academic family medicine blocks (for 18 weeks in FMR1 and 24
weeks in FMR2), you will experience comprehensive family medicine care
including integrated cirriculum in health equity, women's-maternal-child
health, geriatrics, musculoskeletal medicine, chronic disease management,
mental health, procedural skills, men's health and working with adults with
intellectual and developmental disabilities.

Your clinical experiences will also include working in both of our hospitals -
Regina General Hospital and Pasqua Hospital.  These two locations are where
you will experience your off-service rotations including obstetrics,
palliative care, emergency medicine, pediatrics, medicine selectives, surgery
selectives and acute care selectives.

In addition to everything our residency program has to offer, the city of
Regina is a great place to call home. Regina is home to Wascana Centre - a
2,300 acre urban park built around Wascana Lake. It’s also home to the world's
longest bridge over the shortest span of water. You can rent canoes, kayaks,
and stand-up paddle boards to explore Wascana Lake and enjoy the view of the
beautiful flower displays in front of the Saskatchewan Legislative Building.
With hundreds of parks and an abundance of sport and recreation facilities,
arts and cultural centres, museums and performance spaces, sports teams,
fantastic restaurants, and events all year round, there is something for
everyone. Of course, Regina is a four-season city with generally warm springs
and summers, beautiful falls, and cold, dry winters; but Regina is one of the
sunniest capital cities in Canada!

So, why Regina?

  * Collegial and supportive group of residents, faculty, and staff committed to YOUR learning and growth!
  * Flexibility and support to meet personal career goals
  * Robust academic infrastructure that provides the necessary tools for resident learning
  * Exposure to a variety of focused disciplines and practices within Family Medicine
  * Supportive environment committed to resident wellness
  * Competitive PGY-1 and PGY-2 salaries
  * A growing, thriving Canadian city with a low cost of living and a vibrant culture

To see more about our program and Regina, please check out the video at this
link:

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g3t7z84iKGU>

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Regina Curriculum**

**R1 Rotations/longitudinal:**

Orientation / Foundations - 1 week

Academic Family Medicine - 18 weeks (includes Community Health, Chronic
Disease Management, Geriatrics, Gynecology, Health Equity, Inner City,
Musculoskeletal, Procedures, Psychiatry, Transgender Health, and working with
adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities)

Electives - 4 weeks

Emergency Medicine - 4 weeks  
  
Hospitalist - 4 weeks

Medicine Selective - 4 weeks (Choice of 2 - Cardiology, CTU / GIM,
Dermatology, Endocrinology, Gastroenterology, Geriatrics, Hematology,
Infectious Disease, Medical Oncology, Nephrology, Neurology, PM&R, Radiation
Oncology, Respiratory Medicine, Rheumatology)

Obstetrics - 4 weeks

Palliative Care - 4 weeks

Pediatrics - 4 weeks  
  
Surgery Selective - 4 weeks (Choice of 2 - Cardiothoracic Surgery, ENT,
General Surgery, Neuro Surgery, Pediatric Surgery, Plastic Surgery,
Ophthalmology Surgery, Orthopedics Surgery, Urology and Vascular Surgery)

**  During Consolidation Week and Seasonal Slowdown rotations lengths are
increased by 1 week in order for residents to meet competencies.

**R2 Rotations/longitudinal:**

Academic Family Medicine - 24 weeks

Acute Care Selective - 2 weeks (options: Anesthesia, MSU, NICU, Vascular
Surgery, Trauma [NOTE: For Trauma, resident needs to have ATLS])

Community Family Medicine - 4 weeks

Dermatology - 2 weeks (opt out for 2 additional weeks of electives)

Electives - 4 weeks (option:  ICU - four weeks)

Emergency Medicine - 4 weeks  
  
Rural Family Medicine - 8 weeks

**  During Consolidation Week, Exam Week and Seasonal Slowdown rotations
lengths are increased by 1 week in order for residents to meet competencies.

**Experiences:  
**Behavioural skills training  
Evidence-based medicine training  
Academic half-day program  
Integrated clinical experiences (Sim Lab, Refugee Health, Obstetrics, Home
Visits, Geriatrics, Gynecology, Musculoskeletal, 4 Directions, Psychiatry,
Procedures, Transgender Health, working with adults with intellectual and
developmental disabilities)

**Elective time:  
**4 weeks in each year

**Unique features of  Regina site: **

  * our program is housed at the Regina Center Crossings which is located near the core area in Regina that includes both individuals from disadvantaged communities as well as newcomers to Canada. This facility includes a 9,000 ft2 clinical space, one procedure room, resident room, and two conference rooms that can be opened into the kitchen area for large (60-70) gatherings.  The practice has almost 8500 active patients.
  * our Clinical Care Team includes: Nurse Practitioner, Clinical Pharmacist, Community Psychiatrist, Registered Nurse Coordinator, and Behavioural Medicine Coordinator
  * in-patient Obstetrical work is done at the Regina General Hospital
  * several faculty have special interests/training in: working with immigrant populations, Transgender health, Gynecology, Quality Improvement, musculoskeletal/sports medicine, palliative care, care of the elderly, Emergency Medicine, child abuse, ethics, inner-city health, Indigenous health, chronic pain, substance use disorder
  * procedural skills training and practice opportunities; eg: IUD & Nexplanon insertions, endometrial biopsy, skin lesion biopsy, joint injections and opportunity to practice suturing skills
  * access to Sim Lab at Regina General Hospital for procedural practice 

**Rural or Urban, time spent in the other environment:  
**Rural experience x 8 weeks (choices of sites include Fort Qu’Appelle, , Gull
Lake, Humboldt, Ile a la Crosse, La Ronge,  Meadow Lake, Melfort, Moosomin,
Nipawin, Rosthern, Shellbrook, Weyburn and Yorkton).  Additional rural
rotations can also be done during elective time.

**Number of Residents**

Total Number of Family Medicine Residents on site: 29

2025 Quota: 14 CMG, 1 Competitive

**Additional Learners on Site**

**Number of Royal College learners on site:**  
RC Learners – only occasionally on site at Academic Family Medicine Unit  
RC Learners in Regina/in hospital/on rotations - 54

**Number of undergraduate learners on site:**  
Year 4 electives are done in Unit when we have capacity (approximately
2/month)  
Year 3 split their core family medicine block between the Academic Family
Medicine Unit and community-based practices  
40 medical students per year are based in Regina (residents will often work
with medical students on hospital-based rotations)

* * *

# Training Sites

**Site name:  
** Regina Family Medicine Residency Program

**Training sites:  
** Regina

**Size of community and catchment area:  
** Regina and surrounding area – 249,217 residents (2021 census)  
Regina population - 226, 404 (2021 census)

* * *

# Additional Information

**Regina:**

  1. Most successful CFL Franchise and oldest North American professional sports team west of St Louis. Fourth oldest football team in the world.
  2. Serves the inner city population of Regina. Unique health equity curriculum including working with Indigenous people, newcomers to Canada, people with substance use disorder, and adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities.
  3. Great training in women’s health and intrapartum obstetrics.
  4. Integrated geriatric program.
  5. Transgender consultation service on-site with medical management.
  6. Shared Care psychiatric model.
  7. FM block with continuity patients assigned.
  8. Sport & Exercise Medicine R3 with well-developed curriculum for MSK assessment and treatment training in R1 and R2.
  9. Low faculty to resident ratio.

**Connect with us on social media!**  
Facebook: [@usaskfamilymed](https://www.facebook.com/usaskfamilymed)  
Instagram: [@usaskfamilymed](https://www.instagram.com/usaskfamilymed/)

* * *

# FAQ

### **What types of training sites are offered through the University of
Saskatchewan?**

The University of Saskatchewan’s Department of Family Medicine is distributed
into 8 unique sites throughout the province. These postgraduate training sites
are designated as Urban, Regional, Rural or Northern.

  * **Urban** : A community with at least one Provincial Hospital (Regina and Saskatoon)
  * **Regional** : A community with health services that include a regional hospital
  * **Rural** : A community with health services that include a community or district hospital or other facility (Integrated Health Facility, Collaborative Emergency Centre).
  * **Northern** : A community situated in the Northern Saskatchewan Administrative District

Prospective residents are encouraged to attend virtual information sessions to
learn more about the various programs offered at each unique site:

  * La Ronge - Rural/Northern
  * Moose Jaw – Regional
  * North West – Regional/Rural
  * Prince Albert - Regional/Rural
  * Regina – Urban
  * Saskatoon - Urban
  * South East – Rural
  * Swift Current – Regional



### **What application streams are available through the University of
Saskatchewan?**

All sites have two streams (CMG and competitive) except La Ronge (competitive
only). Canadian and US allopathic medical school graduates are encouraged to
apply to both streams. IMGs including graduates from US osteopathic schools
may apply to the competitive stream of each site.



### What is the ratio of CMGs to IMGs matched to the University of
Saskatchewan Family Medicine Program?

Over the past 3 years, the ratio of CMGs to IMGs matched to the University of
Saskatchewan’s Family Medicine Program has been nearly equal. IMGs have
consistently made up close to 50% of the matched residents in the program.
This balanced representation ensures a diverse and inclusive training
environment where IMGs can find peer support and camaraderie throughout their
residency experience.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27186?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27186