#  McMaster University - Vascular Surgery - Hamilton

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 20, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Notice of intent to withdraw accreditation

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Fadi Elias  

Address Department of Surgery - Vascular Surgery  
McMaster University  
237 Barton Street East  
Hamilton, Ontario, L8L 2X2  

Work  905-521-2100 Ext 44147

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Vascular Surgery
](http://surgery.mcmaster.ca/divisions/vascular-surgery)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr Fadi Elias

Title: Program Director

Email: eliasf2@mcmaster.ca

Phone: 9055212100

44147

  

Name: Victoria Evans

Title: Senior Education Program Associate

Email: vascular@mcmaster.ca

Phone: 905-521-2100 x 44644

  

* * *

# Important Information

Our program has recently undergone a Royal College review and have received a
notice of intent to withdrawal. The division of Vascular Surgery at McMaster
University is committed to support vascular surgery trainees and residents. We
have already taken steps to evolve our program and are dedicated to providing
the highest quality training experience for our residents. Please reach out
the Program Director Dr. Fadi Elias
[eliasf2@mcmaster.ca](mailto:eliasf2@mcmaster.ca) if you have any questions.

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Examinations

Optional - will be reviewed

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 29, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held via Zoom. Dates to
be determined. Chosen applicants will be contacted directly with schedule and
zoom link details.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will take place on one day
and will consist of the individual being interviewed by 1 or 2 teams composed
of faculty members and residents.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates are graded based on their academic records, the curriculum vitae,
the CaRMS application, the strength of the references and electives completed.
Candidates are encouraged to undertake an elective at McMaster University,
Division of Vascular Surgery.

## Program goals

Our program is a growing residency program dedicated to the delivery of
quality and contemporary vascular surgery care to our patients. As a Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada accredited training program in
Vascular Surgery our commitment extends to the education and development of
current and future leaders in the management of vascular disease.

It is our objective and our mission to provide comprehensive and current care
to patients with arterial, venous, and lymphatic disease. Additionally, all
residents are will partake in academics and extra-curriculars beyond the
surgical requirements, and explore interests in medical education, research,
and/or administrative studies, with the eventual goal of having a career in
vascular surgery that extends beyond the operating room.

## Selection process goals

Our program is best suited for applicants who have demonstrated a strong
interest in Vascular Surgery. You must show a continual desire to learn and
improve, along with a thirst for knowledge. Hard-work and a strong work ethic
are highly sought after.

A keen interest in research and/or other academic endeavours are strongly
recommended. Successful applicants will also highlight extra-curricular
activities that show them to be well-rounded individuals, with interests and
hobbies beyond the clinical realm.  

## File review process

Review team composition : Residency selection committee -  
Min. two vascular surgeons; program director, faculty attending  
Min. two senior residents

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Awards, accomplishments, and highlighted extra-curriculars.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Candidates must demonstrate that they have clinical experience to ensure they are making an informed decision about entering a surgical specialty.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Highlight activities that demonstrate hobbies and interests outside of medicine and surgery.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Experience in leading teams in a variety of settings.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Must not have any remarks of concerns or issues with professionalism.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Highlight how and why you chose vascular surgery. Demonstrate a strong interest.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Prefer at least two from vascular surgeons.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Not mandatory, but strongly suggested.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Must not have any failed rotations or remarks of concerns.   
Other file component(s) |  Notes on CV: We consider the awards, accomplishments and highlighted extra-curriculars to be the most important after personal letters and reference documents.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Understands the importance of working in a team, and how to interact with potentially difficult persons.   
Collegiality |  Kind, respectful, and professional. Good listening skills.   
Communication skills |  Clear and concise. Rationale and reasoning for answers verbalized.   
Health advocacy |  We do not evaluate this interview component.   
Interest in the discipline |  We do not evaluate this interview component.   
Interest in the program |  We do not evaluate this interview component.   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrate understanding of nuances of leading a group of diverse individuals. Especially in a crisis.   
Professionalism |  Dress in professional and appropriate attire. Evidence of good moral reasoning in face of difficult situations.   
Scholarly activities |  Interest is weighed.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The residency training rotation plan is designed for the achieve of
competencies in the Entrustable Professional Acts (EPAs) in Vascular Surgery
under the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

McMaster University provides an initial boot camp in Surgical Foundations to
better prepare new trainees for residency.  We also support our trainees to
complete specialty boot camp, as well as ATLS and ACLS courses.  We believe
that a solid foundation will lead to a more successful residency.

**PGY 1 and 2**

There are two years of foundational training in surgery. At the completion of
the two years, all the residents are required to pass the principles of
surgery examinations and the MCCQE part II examinations. Throughout the first
two years the resident will have the opportunity to rotate through 8 blocks of
Vascular surgery, 2 blocks Internal Medicine subspecialties Nephrology and
Cardiology, 2 blocks General Surgery (ACS & HPB), 2 blocks Plastic Surgery, 2
blocks Emergency Medicine, 1 block Vascular Medicine, 2 blocks Cardiac
Surgery, 3 blocks Intensive Care, 1 block Coronary Care Unit, and 3 blocks
elective.

**PGY 3**

Throughout the third year, the resident will have an opportunity to rotate
through 8 blocks Vascular Surgery, 4 blocks of Community Vascular Surgery, 2
blocks Vascular Radiology/Non Invasive Vascular lab and 1 block of
selective/research.

**PGY 4**

Throughout the fourth year, the resident will have the opportunity to rotate
through 11 blocks of Vascular Surgery and 2 blocks of Interventional
Radiology.

Chief Residency begins at PGY4 1/2 in Vascular Surgery at McMaster University.
We believe our residents are competent for the this role at this stage.  This
timing also allows for focused training and study time for exam preparations
in the final 6 months of training.

**PGY 5**

Throughout the fifth year the resident will have the opportunity to rotate
through Vascular Surgery at Hamilton General Hospital and electives during the
Transition to Practice stage.

**Research**

Residents will be required to complete two research projects throughout their
training-one while being a junior resident in Surgical Foundations and another
as a senior level resident. Residents will have much time and support for
scholarly activity, including research. There are regular research committee
meetings for our staff and residents where research goals and methods for our
program are discussed. Also, the McMaster Surgeon Scientist Program (SSP)
operates as part of McMaster's CIP.

**Education Sessions**

All residents will be required to attend the vascular teaching rounds from
0730-0830 each Wednesday at the Hamilton General Hospital or via Zoom.

PGY-1 and PGY-2 residents will be required to attend Surgical Foundations each
Wednesday from 0900-1200 at McMaster University Medical Centre. All residents
attend academic half day each Thursday afternoon (currently both in person and
via Zoom). All residents will be required to attend the journal clubs
throughout the year.

Two OSCE's (practice orals) are held each academic year, with residents graded
for training level in order to assist in preparation for final certification
examinations.  Practice oral exams are scheduled for the PGY5 residents with
faculty.  McMaster provides an annual in-training exam for all vascular
residents each winter (VSITE).

In addition, residents are required to present at the Annual Vascular Surgery
Research Day.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Resources   **

There are two teaching institutions involved with the vascular surgery
program. These are the Hamilton Health Sciences (HHS) and St. Joseph's
Hospital. All of the mandatory rotations will take place at these
institutions. Hamilton Health Sciences incorporates the Hamilton General
Hospital where the bulk of the vascular surgery occurs.  The are some
rotations completed at Juravinski Hospital which is closely affiliated with
the cancer centre.

The **Division of Vascular Surgery** encompasses a comprehensive regional
program.  Its clinical activities are divided between Hamilton Health Sciences
Corporation, primarily at the Hamilton General Hospital site, as well as St.
Joseph's Healthcare. The program serves the regional community of 2.5 million
people for all primary and secondary vascular surgical needs. It also
functions as a major tertiary and quaternary referral centre for Southern
Ontario. It is now recognized as a Canadian referral centre for
thoracoabdominal aortic reconstructions and complex thoracic aortic
reconstructions as a whole.

Our Mission:

To be recognized as a regional and national centre of excellence in the care
and teaching of both simple and complex vascular surgery cases including
thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair.

Division Profile:

The Division of Vascular Surgery was amalgamated to one site, the **Hamilton
General Hospital** in 1997 leading to a rapid advancement as a centre of
excellence in vascular surgery.

Vascular Surgery's presence in Hamilton is mainly at two sites: the **Hamilton
General** and **St Joseph's Hospital** with coverage of the surrounding
Hamilton-Wentworth and Niagara/Cambridge regions.

The Division of Vascular Surgery at the Hamilton General has one of the
highest volumes of surgical cases for vascular surgery in Canada. As such, it
is an ideal site for the educational experience of medical students and
surgical residents.

A centre of excellence:

Our surgeons provide comprehensive and current care to patients with arterial,
venous, and lymphatic disease.  This care encompasses the diagnosis,
investigation, treatment and follow-up of all vascular disorders whether they
are common or rare, routine or complex. Over the years our referral population
has expanded well beyond Hamilton and area hospitals and we now serve as a
regional referral centre for patients from Niagara, Haldimand-Norfolk, Brant
and Halton. We are also often asked to provide emergency and or complex care
for patients throughout the province. The Division of Vascular Surgery
actively collaborates with and supports many of the other McMaster University
Regional programs including Trauma, Hemodialysis and Renal Transplant, Cardiac
Surgery and Surgical Oncology. Our division members with diverse interests and
training, collectively bring an extensive experience and skillset capable of
addressing any or all challenges in vascular surgery.

Beyond the clinical realm we are actively involved with clinical and
educational research.  In particular we enjoy an excellent relationship with
the internationally renowned research group at the David Braley Cardiac,
Vascular and Stroke Research Institute and are especially privileged to have
been endowed with the Beamish Family Chair in Vascular Surgery which provides
invaluable support for our academic activities. Our surgeons have played and
continue to play leadership administrative roles with provincial and national
organizations such as the Ontario Medical Association, The Canadian Society
for Vascular Surgery and the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Canada.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26504?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26504