#  University of Ottawa - Neurology - Pediatric - Ottawa

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1 click here

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Katie Muir  

Address Pediatric Neurology  
401 Smyth Road  
Ottawa, Ontario, K1H 8L1  

Work  613-737-7600

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Pediatric Neurology Program
](https://www.uottawa.ca/faculty-medicine/pediatrics/pgme/neurology)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: Program Director

Name: Katie Muir

Title: Program Director

Email: kmuir@cheo.on.ca

Phone: 613-737-7600 ext. 3953

  

Name: Cynthia Parisien-Taillon

Title: Program Administrator

Email: CParisien-Taillon@cheo.on.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

**All candidates must meet the Ontario Criteria of Eligibility**  found
[here](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-criteria/provincial-
criteria/ontario/).

**COVID-19 vaccination**

Please be aware that most, if not all, hospitals in Ontario have mandatory
COVID-19 vaccination policies in place that require, in the absence of a valid
medical or human rights exemption, proof of vaccination. Acceptable
vaccination must be in accordance with Health Canada. You will be required to
provide an attestation that you meet this requirement as part of the CaRMS
application process and any actual documentation will be collected by the
appropriate institution if matched. These guidelines could change at any time
in accordance with future direction from the Ministry of Health or the
Universities based on information from Public Health.

**MCCQE (Medical Council of Canada qualifying examination) Part 1 results** :

Trainees will be required to disclose their MCCQE Part 1 examination results
**if taken** , upon entry into any of the University of Ottawa's training
programs. **Please note that the MCCQE Part 1 is  not a requirement to begin
residency.** The purpose of this disclosure is to allow for resources to be
provided to the few residents who would benefit from extra support early in
their residency in an effort to maximize their success.

**Failure to meet or provide proof of any of the stated requirements may
result in an applicant’s file not being reviewed or removed from the Rank
Order List**

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

The Pediatric Neurology Residency Training Program is open to applicants who
have successfully completed medical school training in Canada.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  * Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  * Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  * Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  * Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. The reference letters are required
from academic physicians familiar with the candidate's abilities and should
attest to knowledge, integrity, leadership, interpersonal skills and problem
solving.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

A personal letter is required and should include the following: Career goals,
reason for choosing pediatric neurology, and assessment of personal strengths.
The letter should be no more than 1000 words in length.

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applications submitted after the CaRMS deadline has passed (check website for
dates) will not be considered.

References and other supporting documents arriving after the CaRMS file review
has opened will not be considered.

Documents sent outside of the CaRMS portal will not be considered.



* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 7, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Date of interview: January 26, 2024  
  
The Resideny Planning Committee will review all applicant files and acceptable
candidates will be invited to a virtual interview at the Children's Hospital
of Eastern Ontario (CHEO)**.**  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The interview process includes
several interviews with Pediatric Neurologists and Pediatric Neurology
Residents.  
  
Applicants will also be given a virtual tour of the Children's Hospital of
Eastern Ontario facility and an opportunity to speak individually with
Pediatric Neurology Residents.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates with the following experience and qualities will be given priority:  
  
1\. Applicants who demonstrate a strong sense of ethics, empathy, integrity
and ability to work well within a team.

2\. Prior interest in Pediatric Neurology (through clinical electives and
rotations, residency, other scholarly activity or life experiences).

3.  Prior interest and/or experience in clinical or basic science research, epidemiology, bio-statistics or ethics.   
  
4.  Strong letters of reference, at least one preferably from a Pediatric Neurologist.

All candidates must meet the Ontario criteria of eligibility.

## Program goals

Upon completion of training, a resident is expected to be a competent
consultant within the speciality of Pediatric Neurology.

The resident will acquire a working knowledge of the theoretical basis of the
specialty, including its foundations in the basic medical sciences and
research. Residents will demonstrate the requisite knowledge, skills, and
attitudes for effective patient-centered care and service to a diverse
population. In all aspects of specialist practice, the graduate will be able
to address issues of gender, sexual orientation, age, culture, ethnicity and
ethics in a professional manner.

During the residency program in Pediatric Neurology, residents will
participate in a wide range of clinical experiences involving the care of
inpatients and outpatients with acute and chronic neurological disorders, as
well as the prevention and rehabilitation of neurological disorders. They will
follow a program of formal educational activities and be exposed to current
research activities.

## Selection process goals

The University of Ottawa Pediatric Neurology Program is focused on training
residents to become well-rounded practitioners. Successful applicants will
have strong academic backgrounds, be able to communicate effectively with
patients, families and multidisciplinary teams, collaborate within a
multidisciplinary team, manage time and balance clinical responsibilities,
have demonstrated leadership and advocacy skills and show a lifelong
commitment to reflective learning.

## File review process

Review team composition : Review team composition : All Pediatric Neurology
staff physicians and all residents participate in the file review process.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  organization, clarity   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  electives and rotations in pediatric neurology, or other specialties that provide insight into a career in pediatric neurology   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  well rounded, volunteer/community involvement   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  in program development or in an already establish program   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  indication of above average performance   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  unique to the individual, providing new information about the candidate   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  description of applicant skills, ability to comment on candidates performance in all Canmeds roles   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  publishing in peer reviewed journals or presenting abstracts   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  indication of above average academic performance (awards, ranking within the class)   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We do not preferentially rank applicants who have only
pursued electives in one discipline or sub-discipline. We support the concept
that students should do a minimum of at least 2 week electives in 3 different
specialties. We understand that elective choices both intra- and inter-
university may be limited.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  works well within a team environment   
Collegiality |  works well in a multidisciplinary setting   
Communication skills |  communicates effectively within a multidisciplinary team as well as with patients and families   
Health advocacy |  advocates for resources and supports for the patient   
Interest in the discipline |  clinical or other relevant experience in pediatric neurology   
Interest in the program |  expresses sincere interest in the program   
Leadership skills |  leadership experience in either established programs or in creating new programs   
Professionalism |  always maintains a professional attitude   
Scholarly activities |  experience in scholarship projects   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Pediatric Neurology Residency Program the Children’s Hospital of Eastern
Ontario (CHEO) offers training for individuals to become a Consultant Academic
or Community Pediatric Neurologist.  Our program is fully accredited with the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. Residents will be exposed
to a full range of neurological diseases affecting infants, children and
adolescents.  Our six full-time and two part-time Pediatric Neurologists
possess subspecialty fellowship training and/or additional expertise in:
epilepsy/EEG, neuromuscular/EMG, demyelinating diseases, neuro-oncology, sleep
neurology, neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative disorders, movement
disorders, stroke and headache.  Other Pediatric Subspecialists at our site
offer additional expertise in neuroradiology, neurosurgery, neurogenetics,
metabolics, ophthalmology and physical medicine and rehabilitation,
neuropsychology and palliative care.

Our Residency Program has very strong links with the Adult Neurology Residency
Training Program (at The Ottawa Hospital, Civic and General campuses), The
Ottawa Eye Institute (neuroophthalmology) as well as the Ottawa Children’s
Treatment Center (OCTC) (developmental pediatrics).  Our centre also offers
Residents the unique opportunity to participate in subspecialty clinics in
Nunavut (Qikiqtani General Hospital) and care for patients in the
neuromuscular clinic, ketogenic diet clinic, Rett syndrome and Angelman
syndrome clinics, headache clinic, neurodegenerative disease clinic, Tourette
Multi-disciplinary clinic and Epilepsy Monitoring Unit. During their training,
residents will run their own continuity clinic with supervision by a staff
neurologist. Residents will have the opportunity to complete community
neurology rotations. Research is strongly encouraged throughout training and
will be supported by a research mentor.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Pediatric neurology programs in Canada are 5 year Competency by Design (CBD)
programs. Training is divided into 4 stages: Transition to Discipline,
Foundations, Core and Transition to Practice. In order to be promoted to the
next stage of learning, specific entrustable professional activities (EPAs)
must be completed.

  
During the first 2 months, Transition to Discipline, residents will rotate
through rotations which will orient them to the hospital environment and
pediatric neurology.  These rotations could include pediatric wards, the
emergency room or pediatric neurology clinics/wards.

The next stage, Foundations, runs until approximately the end of year 2 and
will include both rotations pertinent to pediatric medicine and pediatric
neurology. These would include rotations in the Pediatric Clinical Teaching
Unit (CTU), Emergency Room, Neonatal Intensive Care Unit, Pediatric Neurology
and Neurosurgery, Genetics and Metabolics, Developmental Pediatrics, Pediatric
Intensive Care Unit and Pediatric Rehabilitation.

Core, the next stage of learning, encompasses approximately 2.5 years. This
stage focuses on neurology specific rotations.  The first 6 months consists of
adult neurology rotations (Eg. inpatient wards, consultation service,
clinics), followed by rotations in pediatric neurology (inpatient wards and
clinic, Epilepsy/EEG, Neuromuscular/EMG, Neuropathology, Neuroradiology,
Neurosurgery, Neuroophthalmology, Neuropathology). Residents will also have
their own continuity clinic during this stage. In addition, time will be
available for research blocks, community neurology rotations, as well as
subspecialty electives of interest. It is during this stage, residents may
also opt to work one week in the Iqaluit, Nunavut outreach clinic.

Towards the end of the 4th year of training, during the Core stage, the RCPSC
Neurology Examination takes place.

The last 6 months of training is the Transition to Practice stage when
residents will have the opportunity to take on the role of junior attending
and pursue further electives pertinent to their future goals.

Residents are expected to participate in scholarly work during their Residency
Training and will be given Research Block(s) to facilitate this.  Residents
are encouraged to present their work during an annual Resident Research Day as
well as at National or International conferences.  Residents will also be
expected to prepare oral presentations to their colleagues / staff and to
present at one Pediatric Grand Rounds in their senior year.   Residents are
encouraged to attend scientific meetings, including the Canadian Congress of
Neurological Sciences (every June), the Child Neurology Society (every
November) and the American Academy of Neurology (every Spring). The program
will provide funding to assist residents with conference registration and/or
travel expenses. Pediatric Neurology Residents will attend an Annual Pediatric
Neurology Retreat held in Montebello, QC in conjunction with Montreal
Children’s Hospital (McGill University) and Ste-Justine (University de
Montréal).  

* * *

# Training Sites

The Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO) is the primary training
site.  This tertiary pediatric hospital is a 167-bed teaching hospital. 10
beds are devoted to the pediatric intensive care unit and 20 beds to the
neonatal intensive care unit.

CHEO is the only tertiary-level facility exclusively for pediatric care in
eastern Ontario and western Quebec and covers a large portion of eastern and
northern Ontario. We serve a population of over 1.5 million. The Pediatric
Neurology service acts predominantly as a consultation service. Most patients
are admitted under the care of pediatric or surgical services with neurology
acting as consultant. Occasional patients, especially patients assessed for
epilepsy monitoring, are admitted directly under the neurology in-patient
service. The Faculty also specializes in a wide range of Pediatric Neurology
subspecialties. These include Neurophysiology (EEG, EMG, evoked potentials),
epilepsy monitoring, epilepsy surgery, neuromuscular diseases,
neuroimmunological diseases, neurooncology, cerebral palsy, movement
disorders, headache, telehealth as well as outreach clinics to Nunavut (Baffin
Island).  
  
The CHEO neurophysiology laboratory performs all aspects of pediatric
electroencephalography (EEG) including video telemetry.  As of Jan 1, 2014 our
service will be opening a two bed epilepsy monitoring units (EMU).  Sleep
studies are offered.  Nerve conduction studies and electromyography (EMG)
including single fiber and stimulated single fiber EMG are offered.  The CHEO
Radiology has both 1.5T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 3T MRI machines for
clinical care as well as CT studies, ultrasonography, radioisotope studies,
SPECT scanning.

Pediatric Neurology Residents will also complete clinical rotations at The
Ottawa Hospital (General and Civic Campus; Adult Neurology), The Ottawa Eye
Institute (Neuroopthalmology), and The Ottawa Children’s Treatment Centre
(OCTC; Developmental Pediatrics).

* * *

# Additional Information

The pediatric neurology training program in Ottawa offers a unique opportunity
to practice in a bilingual and multicultural environment. The catchment of
this program is wide running from Nunavut to Western Quebec to Eastern
Ontario. The numerous subspecialty services at CHEO allow for excellent
multidisciplinary care.

Residents are appreciative of the individualized training they receive from
dedicated staff with various expertise.

Ottawa itself has the amenities of a big city within a small environment.
Residents will have an opportunity to explore the wide range of outdoor and
cultural activities our city has to offer.

* * *

# FAQ

1\. How can I find out more about the Pediatric Neurology Program at the
University of Ottawa?

We will be hosting multiple virtual information nights. Information about
dates and times for these as well as further information about our program can
be found by following our instagram account (Ottawapedsneuro) or on the
CANPREPP website.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27233?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27233