#  University of Toronto - Psychiatry - Indigenous communities  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG - Indigenous stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Adrienne Tan  

Address Department of Psychiatry  
CAMH - College Street Site  
Suite 832, 250 College Street  
Toronto, Ontario, M5T 1R8  

Websites of Interest [ Department of Psychiatry Postgraduate Education
](https://www.psychiatry.utoronto.ca/postgraduate-education-home)  
[ PGME at U of T ](https://pgme.utoronto.ca/)  
[ Toronto: The World at Your Doorstep
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ElmVUKUgVig&feature=youtu.be)  
[ NOSM U ](https://www.nosm.ca/)  
[ McMaster University ](https://www.mcmaster.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Samantha Wallenius

Title: Assistant Program Director, Indigenous Stream

Email: samantha.wallenius@alumni.utoronto.ca

  

Name: Tammy Mok

Title: Postgraduate Officer

Email: tammy.mok@utoronto.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion**  
All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of the
University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

  
**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)  
** The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.  
  
_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

**Important Information**  

The Department of Psychiatry in the Temerty Faculty of Medicine, University of
Toronto, with its unique breadth and depth of expertise, is well positioned to
shape the future of psychiatry. Our vision is to improve access and transform
mental health care through education, research, and professional development
that meets the needs of our communities.

The core general psychiatry residency program at the Department of Psychiatry,
University of Toronto is built on a strong foundation of research and
education. Teaching, fostering lifelong learning, continuous performance
improvement, and a strong sense of professional identity are central to our
residency program’s mission.

Wellness and Community

Resident wellness and community is supported in a variety of ways – through
the PRAT (Psychiatry Residents’ Association of Toronto), strong resident
leadership through our Chief Residents alongside faculty who are dedicated to
fostering and welcoming the next generation of psychiatrists. We deeply value
the learner experience and our faculty teachers endeavor to role model a high
standard of professional behaviour.

Teaching and Learning: Competence by Design (CBD)

Our residency program is a leader in competency-based medical education (CBME)
with the implementation of [CBD](https://www.royalcollege.ca/en/standards-and-
accreditation/competence-by-design.html), Canada’s model for CBME in
postgraduate medical education. Education leadership in the Department of
Psychiatry have led innovations in key components of CBD including workplace-
based leaning and assessment, coaching, feedback and personalized learning
plans. For more information on CBD in the residency program, please see our
[website](https://www.psychiatry.utoronto.ca/competence-design).  The
residency program leverages the size and capacity of the department to deliver
a dynamic and responsive curriculum to prepare residents for independent
practice.

Collaboration and Integration

The broader community within the Department of Psychiatry at the University of
Toronto creates a powerful network that influences and leads all aspects of
mental health care. Through strong relationships between clinicians and
researchers, alumni and faculty, the university and hospitals, our residents
have the opportunity to participate in training experiences at the vanguard of
cutting edge research, clinical excellence, and education.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

The Indigenous* Residency Stream is open to applicants who are First Nations,
Inuit or Métis. Members of Tribal Nations in the United States will be
considered.  Please note that regardless of Indigenous ancestry, all
applicants must meet the Canadian Citizenship or Permanent Resident status, as
described, below.  All applicants will be reviewed on a case by case basis. In
some circumstances, additional information may be requested/required.

*Indigenous refers to individuals who are First Nations, Inuit or Métis in Canada or an enrolled member of a Tribal Nation in the United States, Hawaii or Alaska.

Our admissions process includes providing training in Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion as well as unconscious bias for all members of the admissions
committee. Our admissions process will recognize and value a wide range of
accomplishments and experiences, while using the same metrics for all
applicants at both the file review and interview stages.

Applicants should provide all required information. Any questions about the
required information or the interview process should be directed to Tammy Mok
at the contact information above.



**Please note:** If you would like to be considered for the general psychiatry
residency program **and** a stream at UofT (either Indigenous or Clinician-
Researcher) please apply to **both** the general psychiatry program and the
specialized stream. You will be able to rank both streams in CaRMS following
the interviews.

In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Applicant support form  Number requested: 3

Traditional letters of reference are no longer accepted for this program. Your
referee must complete the required structured reference form. Please include
this link in your reference request:
<https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/2025-Psychiatry-Structured-Reference-Letter-EN.pdf>

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry

**If you have** previously self-identified as Indigenous with your current
Institution/Undergraduate Medical Education Administration and had your
Indigenous status verified by your program, please provide a letter confirming
this from the Registrar or equivalent from your Institution’s Medical
Education Office.

**If you have not** had your Indigenous identity verified, please provide the
following information:

Provide documentation regarding applicant’s First Nation (status and non-
status), Inuit, Métis, Band Council, Treaty, community, nation or
organizational affiliation. Photocopies should be clear, showing all
information, and include the front and back of documents. Acceptable
documentation may include:

  * A copy of a Status or Treaty card;
  * A copy of a Nunavut Trust Certificate card, roll number or any other proof accepted by Inuit communities;
  * A copy of a membership card in a Métis registry recognized by the Métis National Council (the Métis Nation of Ontario, Manitoba Métis Federation, Métis Nation – Saskatchewan, Métis Nation of Alberta and Métis Nation British Columbia) or similar organization;
  * Proof that an ancestor’s name has been entered in the Indian Register according to the Indian Act, on the band list of an individual band or the Inuit roll;
  * Written confirmation of Indigenous ancestry from the Department of Indigenous and Northern Affairs Canada;
  * Written confirmation of membership in a band council that has its own membership code;

_Files/Applications will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and involve the
input & guidance of an Elder._

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

Word Count

Minimum: None

Maximum: 1000 words

Write a personal letter that tells the University of Toronto General
Psychiatry Residency Program and _Indigenous Admissions Subcommittee_ about
you. The letter must not be longer than 1000 words and should address the
following:

  1. Why would you like to train at the University of Toronto?
  2. What are your potential plans or aspirations in a future career as a psychiatrist?
  3. Why you would like to be considered as an applicant in the Indigenous Residency Stream;
  4. Details about your cultural, linguistic and personal background. Provide specific information about your background and how you are involved with strengthening your own Indigenous identity, language and culture and/or working with Indigenous service organizations in community or urban areas and/or have lived experience in Indigenous communities. Indigenous communities could be First Nation, Treaty community or organizational affiliation, such as a Student Centre, Friendship Centre, or a Volunteer Organization that support Indigenous people and communities;
  5. Examples of how you are culturally connected to Indigenous communities (activities, ceremonies, celebrations, traditions, language, etc.);
  6. Throughout your medical school training, how have you continued to maintain or develop a relationship with your Indigenous identity and/or Indigenous communities?
  7. How will you use your medical training to advance Indigenous health in Canada?

_Important Note: Please address any gaps in training or remediation periods in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count._

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Application and Interview Day assessments are combined to assist the selection
committee in candidate selection and CaRMS ranking.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 6, 2025
  * February 7, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will take place on either
February 6 or 7, 2025. These are the only available interview days.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify applicants regarding selection
for interview by January 19, 2024 at the latest.

Details regarding the interview process: Applications are reviewed with
respect to academic trajectory, communication skills, reflective capacity,
interest/aptitude for Psychiatry practice and training.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Applicants invited for a virtual  interview will have the opportunity to
attend a full day 9:45am - 5:30pm EST with our program which will combine
informational sessions about our program, opportunities to meet informally
with residents and faculty, and structured interviews/assessments. All
interviews and information sessions will take place virtually via Zoom.

The Interview/Information Day will be used to explore and assess a variety of
skills and aptitudes needed for psychiatric training and practice, including
communication skills, problem solving skills, reﬂective capacity and
interest/aptitude for psychiatry practice and training.

Applicants will also have the opportunity to meet the Program Directors and
speak with residents. There will opportunities to learn more about our
Clinician Scientist Program, Clinician Scholar Program, Competence by Design
(CBD), and our specialized streams.

PGY1s are selected based on examination of the written application submission
and the interviews/assessments.

## Program goals

The state of mental health care amongst most Indigenous Peoples and
communities is unacceptable in Canada. The Department of Psychiatry at
University of Toronto strives to provide the best care to today's patients and
to transform the understanding and treatment of mental illness and addiction
for the patients of tomorrow. We have endeavored to develop a collaborative
Indigenous stream training program in partnership with Indigenous Communities,
educators, learners, Knowledge Keepers and Elders, for Indigenous learners in
the field of psychiatry that meets national accreditation standards while
providing appropriate, relevant, diverse and culturally safe mental health
care to Indigenous peoples and communities in Ontario, and enriching the lives
of community members, patients and students.

The curriculum offers training in both Western medicine, as well as cultural
safety with respect to traditional approaches to physical, mental, emotional
and spiritual wellbeing - the traditional approaches must be validated,
delivered, and developed by traditional medicine knowledge keepers and was
developed to address priority mental health and wellness needs of Indigenous
communities (as defined by those communities) e.g. trauma informed care,
intergenerational trauma, etc.

The curriculum contains elements of advocacy at the levels of both individual
and systems.  Additionally, the curriculum offers ongoing education and
reflection that incorporates principles of culturally safe care, anti-racism,
and decolonization.  

We are building the future of psychiatry: we collaborate with our hospital
partners to create capacity and improve access to care; we ensure quality
care; we promote brain health and social inclusion of people with mental
illnesses and their families.

Our unique breadth and depth allow us to provide sound clinical care, create
novel knowledge, translate research discoveries and train the future
generations of psychiatry clinicians, educators and researchers.

## Selection process goals

The PGY1 Admissions Subcommittee recognizes that many applicants develop an
interest in Psychiatry later in medical school training and/or have limited
access to multiple electives; as such, we encourage ALL applicants with strong
interest and aptitude for Psychiatry to apply, even if applicants have not had
extensive Psychiatry elective experience.

The applicant's combined score on the application and interview day
assessments will inform their position on the rank order list. The PGY1
Admission Subcommittee may, after thoughtful and thorough deliberation, decide
not to rank a candidate, regardless of their score if the committee identifies
a concern that brings into legitimate question the candidate's suitability for
the specialty or readiness for the residency program.

## File review process

Review team composition : Each file is reviewed by an Elder, an Indigenous
faculty member and a resident.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 201 - 400  
This is a new stream being introduced for the CaRMS 2024 R-1 Cycle.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  All components considered.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted candidates’ opportunities to arrange and complete electives and would like to reassure you that a lack of elective activity will not negatively impact your application to our program.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  All components considered.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  All components considered.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  All components considered.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  All components considered.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  All components considered.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  All components considered.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  All components considered.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  All components considered.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted
candidates’ opportunities to arrange and complete electives and would like to
reassure you that a lack of elective activity will not negatively impact your
application to our program.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  All interviews will be conducted via Zoom.  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  All components are considered.   
Collegiality |  All components are considered.   
Communication skills |  All components are considered.   
Health advocacy |  All components are considered.   
Interest in the discipline |  All components are considered.   
Interest in the program |  All components are considered.   
Leadership skills |  All components are considered.   
Professionalism |  All components are considered.   
Scholarly activities |  All components are considered.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Program strengths identified at our recent Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Canada (RCPSC) accreditation visit in November 2023 include:**

  1. Very engaged program director and leadership team which is empowered and effective to make changes to the program as needed.
  2. The program is responsive to learner concerns with several avenues for resident feedback at the local site leve, program wide, and centrally at the postgraduate medical education (PGME) office. The program has made several major changes in response to learner feedback since the last accreditation visit.
  3. Exceptionally broad training experience with significant depth and expertise across all of psychiatry.
  4. Commitment to underserved and unique populations including an underserved elective experience as part of the training program and a new indigenous clinical experience coming online in July 2024.
  5. Clinician Scholar and Clinician Scientist program provides unique opportunities for research and promote scholarly success.
  6. Program wide culture of learner safety and wellness.

**Program strengths identified at our recent Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Canada (RCPSC) accreditation visit in November 2020 include:**

  1. Breadth of clinical care opportunities.
  2. Plethora of resources, both academically and administratively.
  3. Engaged and highly respected faculty known for excellence in the general quality of 1:1 supervision and teaching.
  4. Program Director who is approachable, engaged and knowledgeable about the program, eager to engage in education scholarship.
  5. Large cadre of leaders with educational expertise, willing to embark upon a major innovative change despite the size of the program, and who have developed a theoretically sound medical education program.
  6. Stellar Program Administrative staff who work cohesively as a team.

In addition to the aforementioned highlights, the Indigenous Stream offers:

  1. Training in both Western medicine, as well as cultural safety with respect to traditional approaches to physical, mental, emotional and spiritual wellbeing
  2. Traditional approaches are validated, delivered, and developed by traditional medicine knowledge keepers and have been developed to address priority mental health and wellness needs of Indigenous communities (as defined by those communities), such as trauma-informed care and intergenerational trauma.
  3. The curriculum contains elements of advocacy at the levels of both individual and systems. Additionally, the curriculum offers ongoing education and reflection that incorporates principles of culturally safe care, anti-racism, and decolonization.
  4. Training experiences are available in both rural and remote settings, with opportunities and an expectation to participate in clinical rotations through the University of Toronto, as well as NOSM U and McMaster University, as this is a collaboration amongst all three institutions. 
     1. PGY1 rotations at the University of Toronto with a PGY1 outpatient half-day clinic serving Indigenous communities; 1-month PLEX (personalized learning experience) block during which Indigenous Stream residents may choose to participate in a rotation at one of our partner institutions (NOSM U and McMaster)
     2. PGY2 Inpatient and Outpatient Psychiatry with outpatient psychiatry integrating work with Indigenous communities.
     3. PGY3 rotations include Serious Mental Illness, Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, and Geriatric Psychiatry – residents in the Indigenous Stream can work with the Assistant Program Director, Indigenous Stream and Program Director regarding integrating care of Indigenous communities within the core rotations.
     4. PGY4 – 5 months available during Personalized Learning Experience and Underserved/Marginalized Population rotations to work in Indigenous communities, tailored to the resident’s interests at UofT or one of our partner institutions.
     5. PGY5 – Integrated Mental Health Care (IMHC) and Transition to Practice/PGY5 Personalized Learning Experiences (PLEX) to prepare residents for practice can occur at UofT or at one or more of the partner institutions (maximum 6-months outside of Toronto).

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Ratio of Faculty to Residents 950:200

Elective Time Away: Maximum 6 months during residency training (out of
province or international electives)

As of the 2020-21 academic year, all Canadian psychiatry residency programs
have transitioned to Competence by Design (CBD). Traditionally residents’
developmental stages were referred to by Postgraduate Year (PGY) – and whilst
this convention still exists, with CBD, residents’ developmental trajectory is
also described by developmental stage:

  * Transition to Discipline (TTD)
  * Foundations of Discipline (FOD)
  * Core of Discipline (COD)
  * Transition to Practice (TTP)

PGY1 (TTD and FOD)

PGY1 year consists of an initial transition to discipline (TTD) curriculum
called Ground School. This is intended to provide all trainees with a strong
foundation in medical and psychiatric skills before they advance to their
clinical rotations. Each trainee works directly with a coach throughout
residency training to review and reﬁne their learning goals. The rest of PGY1
consists of 12 four-week rotations/[blocks](https://pgme.utoronto.ca/common-
rotation-dates) in a variety of disciplines.

Clinical rotations

In addition to addressing priority mental health and wellness needs of
Indigenous communities, as defined by those communities, there will be
exposure to traditional ways of knowing and being (such as healing
ceremonies).  The curriculum offers training in both Western medicine, as well
as cultural safety with respect to traditional approaches to physical, mental,
emotional and spiritual wellbeing, which are validated, delivered, and
developed by Traditional medicine knowledge keepers.

PGCorEd

All University of Toronto Residents will be required to complete the web-based
[PGCorEd ](https://pgme.utoronto.ca/pgcored-overview)Teaching in Residency
module within the first 3 months of residency training.

Rotation Structure  
For PGY2-5 rotation structure, please see information on our
[website](https://www.psychiatry.utoronto.ca/) (Department of Psychiatry >
Education > Postgraduate Education > Current Residents > Rotation Structure).
Throughout residency training, core rotation-based teaching offered via a
variety of instructional methods is also provided by award-winning teachers
and educators.

Opportunity for Subspecialty, Fellowship, and Area of Focused Competence
training

Towards the end of the general psychiatry residency program, residents may
apply for subspecialty training in any of the three Royal College subspecialty
programs: Child & Adolescent, Geriatric, or Forensic Psychiatry. In addition,
numerous post-residency fellowships are available for advanced training. There
are also opportunities to train in Royal College approved Areas of Focused
Competence (AFC) in Addiction Medicine with two AFCs in development
Consultation-Liaison Psychiatry and Sleep Disorders Medicine.

**Psychotherapy Training**

PGY2 through PGY5 residents will obtain extensive psychotherapy training
through supervision and seminars in: long- term and short-term psychodynamic
therapy, cognitive-behavioural therapy, interpersonal therapy, and multi-
person therapies including couple, family and group therapy. Training
experiences are also available in MBSR (mindfulness-based stress reduction),
ACT (Acceptance and Commitment Therapy), and DBT (Dialectical Behavior
Therapy).

**Research**

Clinician Scientist Program

The Department has a large Clinician Scientist Program, comprised of
mentorship, a seminar/workshop series, protected research time (1/2 day a
week), conference funding to support resident travel, and other research
activities. The CSP includes a general stream for psychiatry residents in
PGY3-4 who are interested in a research career, and a graduate stream for
psychiatry residents in PGY-5, and potentially PGY-6 if in sub-specialty
residency training, who have a substantial interest in research and wish to
pursue graduate school. Graduate-stream CSP Residents are encouraged to
register in the Royal College Clinician Investigator Program. There are also
many opportunities for more limited engagement in research projects, such as
through research electives.

Clinician Scholar Program

The Clinician Scholar Program provides enhanced training for residents
interested in pursuing education scholarship, quality improvement, and other
creative professional activities (including the social sciences and
humanities). Residents apply to the program with a specific project and
supervisor, and receive additional training, mentorship and protected time in
PGY3 and PGY4. The Clinician Scholar Program also supports senior residents in
pursuing graduate studies and further training in these areas, including
doctoral and masters degrees. Outside of the program, there are many
opportunities for residents to engage in scholarship throughout their
training.

**Training Streams:**

In 2024, the University of Toronto piloted two new streams – the Indigenous
Stream as well as the Clinician-Researcher Track. Please see program
descriptions for further details. Applicants interested in applying for these
training streams will need to submit an application for both the specialized
stream and the general CMG Program. Applicants for the specialized streams
will have additional interview processes and information sessions alongside
participating in standard CaRMS interview process.

**Seminars**

In PGY1 one half day each week is devoted to core curriculum seminars covering
the topics of psychiatry required by the Royal College and University of
Toronto. In PGY2-4, residents will continue to receive teaching in a variety
of ways – through seminars, activities and online interactive modules.
Starting the 2023-24 academic year, residents will write their Royal College
exams in PGY4 and will receive support in doing so from the residency program.
In PGY5, residents participate in a Transition to Practice (TTP) Curriculum.
In addition, each teaching hospital has an active teaching program consisting
of didactic seminars, grand rounds, journal clubs, and interview courses.

* * *

# Training Sites

Several hospitals in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA) are affiliated with the
University of Toronto and together they are members of the Toronto Academic
Health Science Network ([TAHSN](https://www.tahsn.ca/)). In general, core
rotations for psychiatry training occur at fully affiliated hospitals. There
is also elective time integrated into the residency program to explore
training experiences at a variety of hospitals across the GTA. For further
information about specific clinical programs/training sites, please refer to
information on the Department of Psychiatry
[website](https://www.psychiatry.utoronto.ca/) > Divisions and Programs >
Education (for each division).

**Travel to training sites  
** In this unique Indigenous Stream program, travel for rotations at McMaster
University and NOSMU will be required.

There is a commitment between the University of Toronto and partner
institutions to provide financial support for travel and accommodations for
rotations at NOSM U and McMaster.

For University of Toronto rotations, most core training sites are easily
accessible by public transportation or pedestrian/cycling transportation,
depending on where trainees choose to live in the GTA. Some training site
options are more easily accessible by car. The training program’s internal
rotation match system does allow for residents to be placed at sites up to 60
km away from downtown core. Under those circumstances, a car maybe desirable
but is not mandatory.



For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>

* * *

# Additional Information

  1. **Permanent Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education office in order to comply with current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry of Colleges and Universities
  2. **Matched applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data file to the matched university’s postgraduate education office. The postgraduate office will share the information as needed, but not limited to, the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:**  The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure to meet or provide proof**  of any of the stated requirements may result in applicant file being removed at any point during the match.

Strengths of the program include:

  * Leveraging size to offer breadth and depth of educational experiences whilst also fostering sense of community (e.g. through PRAT, Chief Residents at hospital sites, departmental events such as Don Wasylenki Education Day and Annual Department Research Day)
  * Focus on learner experience and professional development 
    * Wellness and learning environment are a core part of residency program’s mission
    * Inclusion of resident representation in core residency program activities (e.g. Residency Program Committee)
    * Coaching and Mentorship Program to support career development
    * Choice of rotations informed by trainee preference/ranking
    * Time for career exploration embedded throughout residency (through elective time or PLEX – personalized learning experiences)
    * Protected time for annual wellness retreats and career development events
    * Opportunities for subsequent advanced training in subspecialties and areas of focused competence (AFCs)
  * Opportunities for research through the Clinician Scientist and Scholar Programs
  * Opportunities for rural, out of province, and international training experiences
  * Exam Preparation 
    * Exam preparation curriculum
    * Protected time to attend review courses
  * Transition to Practice
    * Curriculum to support transition to unsupervised/independent practice
    * Personalized learning plan for trainees with coaching and mentorship



* * *

# FAQ

**Is the program holding any information sessions for potential CaRMS
candidates this year?**

Join us for an informative presentation about the U of T general psychiatry
program followed by a question-and-answer period. Program leadership may make
a guest appearance at these sessions. This is a chance to meet some of the U
of T residents, learn more about the program structure and culture, and get
your questions answered. We look forward to seeing you there!

**Session 1:  **Wednesday, October 9, 2024, from 7pm to 8pm EST

**Session 2:   **Wednesday, October 16, 2024, from 2pm to 3pm EST

**Session 3:**  Thursday, November 21, 2024, from 7pm to 8pm EST

For meeting links please visit [CANPREPP website](https://canprepp.ca/) >
Events page



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27076?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27076