#  University of British Columbia - Neurology - Vancouver

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Competitive RoS Stream for All  

##  Last approved on September 25, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Samuel Yip  

Address Neurology  
8219-2775 Laurel Street  
8/F Gordon & Leslie Diamond Health Care Centre  
Vancouver, British Columbia, V5Z 1M9  

604-875-5198

Websites of Interest

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: UBC Neurology Residency Program

Title: Program Administration

Email: neuro.residency@ubc.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

## For more information: [Competitive
Stream](https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/health/practitioner-professional-
resources/physician-compensation/return-service-programs/competitive-stream-
program)

  * The new stream will be open in the first iteration of the Canadian Residency Matching Service (CaRMS) R-1 Match to both Canadian Medical Graduates and International Medical Graduates who meet the eligibility criteria.
  * This new stream is in addition to the existing Canadian Medical Graduate Stream and International Medical Graduate Stream in British Columbia (IMG-BC Program). 
  * Successful applicants will be required to make a return of service commitment to stay and practice anywhere in B.C. for three years upon completion of their training. 
  * For International Medical Graduates, please note the IMG Clinical Assessment Program will be required for eligibility, noting the application cycle is open from August 1 to August 22, 2023. 

This new initiative is part of the B.C. Government’s broader commitment and
investment in the expansion of medical education opportunities to train more
physicians for B.C. and is funded through B.C.’s Health Human Resources
Strategy.



* * *

# Return of Service

The Competitive Stream is subject to a Return of Service (ROS). Successfully
matched applicants are required to sign a contract with the Ministry of Health
as a condition of accepting a medical residency position. Templates of the ROS
contract and allocation details can be reviewed on the MOH ROS website here:
[Competitive Stream (Medical Residency
Stream)](https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content?id=91E6BE5924ED4D80BB8FBB0094900CD5
"Competitive Stream \(Medical Residency Stream\)")

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Application must be filled out in English.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG applicants:**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



**IMG applicants:**

IMG applicants need not provide evidence of English language testing if the
primary language of medical education or patient care was in English. If the
primary language of medical education or patient care was NOT in English then
applicants must fulfill the English language proficiency requirements by the
start of Ranking Period.



See CPSBC English Language Proficiency Requirements here for more information:
<https://www.cpsbc.ca/files/pdf/REG-ELP.pdf>

Examinations

Additional required IMG documents

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

Not applicable for CMG applicants.

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

Not applicable for CMG applicants.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  600

  

Medical School Transcript

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical Student Performance Record

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

Copy of certificate

Additional required IMG documents

IMG-BC Clinical Assessment Program

**IMG Applicants only** \- The UBC Clinical Assessment Program (CAP) letter is
provided to CaRMS by the UBC IMG Office.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Files are reviewed by members of the Residency Program Committee. Decision
will be made regarding candidates to be interviewed.

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: TBA  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: There will be a preliminary screening
of applications for the granting of interviews. Interviews will consist of
four 15-minute interviews conducted by members of our Residency Program
Committee.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Selection is made through an interview process with our Residency Program
committee. While marks are considered, previous accomplishments, character and
interpersonal skills are very important.

## Program goals

Our residents will demonstrate exceptional interpersonal skills, clinical
skills and academic excellence as demonstrated through clinical care,
teaching, research and/or quality assurance/health advocacy initiatives.  They
will be active members of the community, witnessed through their volunteer
and/or extracurricular activities.  They will demonstrate the ability to
collaborate with peers, supervisors, and allied health colleagues.

## Selection process goals

Identify applicants who have demonstrated an interest in clinical neurology
and the aptitude to develop into exceptional clinical neurologists.

Identify applicants who demonstrate the ability to interact appropriately with
colleagues and patients.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated the ability and enthusiasm to learn
and who are able to adapt to the demands of residency training.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated aptitudes consistent with the
CanMEDS 2015 roles.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team consists of the members of our
Residency Program Committee. This includes the program director, associate
program director, two resident representatives, and faculty members from our
various training sites.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We evaluate the content including electives, academic activities and extracurricular activities.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Clinical aptitude, particularly in neurology, and interpersonal skills.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Involvement in the community through paid and/or volunteer work.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Ability to take initiative in appropriate settings.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Professionalism, clinical aptitude, and interpersonal skills in all areas, not restricted to neurology.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstrate interest in neurology.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Clinical acumen, particularly in neurology, professionalism, and interpersonal skills.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Demonstrate interest in research and/or other scholarly pursuits.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high quality patient care through working in a team environment.   
Collegiality |  Ability to work well with others.   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak, write, and communicate in English, be articulate.   
Health advocacy |  N/A   
Interest in the discipline |  Enthusiasm for clinical neurology.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrate interest in the UBC program and living in Vancouver.   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrate ability to take initiative in appropriate settings.   
Professionalism |  Presentation of self during the interview and interaction with others through the interview process.   
Scholarly activities |  Demonstrate interest in research and/or other scholarly pursuits.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Throughout all rotations, residents see a large breadth of pathology from all
over BC and the Yukon.

Opportunity to participate in outreach clinics in under serviced areas in
PGY4/5 years (Haida Gwaii, Whitehorse, Kitimat, etc.)

Opportunity to get involved in medical student teaching, including second year
neuroanatomy course and the medical student neurology clinical skills course.

Active neuroethics program and neuroethics movie nights designed to stimulate
discussion around ethical issues in clinical neurology.

Brain Research Centre with extensive clinical and basic science research
ongoing in many subspecialties of neurology.

Very supportive neurology faculty, with varied clinical and research
interests, keen to work with residents.

Annual neuroscience resident retreat weekend at Whistler to build camaraderie
between staff and residents and between different neuroscience specialties
(pediatrics, neurosurgery, and neurology).

Strong support in our residency program to foster individual resident
interests and aptitudes and to create opportunities for residents to pursue
these, whether residents are focused on an academic track (clinician-
scientist, clinician-teacher) or in practicing general neurology in the
community.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27363?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27363