#  University of Ottawa - Anesthesiology - Ottawa  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on September 23, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2 click here

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Asadollah Mir ghassemi  

Address Anesthesiology  
1053 Carling Ave.  
Room B302  
Ottawa, Ontario, K1Y 4E9  

Work  613-798-5555 ext.19207

Websites of Interest [ Dept of Anesthesia
](https://med.uottawa.ca/anesthesiology/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Danielle Ninclaus

Title: Program Administrator

  

General Information: Program Administration

Name: Julie Ghatalia

Title: Program Adminstration

Email: jghatalia@toh.ca

Phone: 798-5555 Ext 16407

  

* * *

# Important Information

**All candidates must meet the Ontario Criteria of Eligibility**  found
[here](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-criteria/provincial-
criteria/ontario/).

**COVID-19 vaccination**

Please be aware that most, if not all, hospitals in Ontario have mandatory
COVID-19 vaccination policies in place that require, in the absence of a valid
medical or human rights exemption, proof of vaccination. Acceptable
vaccination must be in accordance with Health Canada. You will be required to
provide an attestation that you meet this requirement as part of the CaRMS
application process and any actual documentation will be collected by the
appropriate institution if matched. These guidelines could change at any time
in accordance with future direction from the Ministry of Health or the
Universities based on information from Public Health.

**Failure to meet or provide proof of any of the stated requirements may
result in an applicant’s file not being reviewed or removed from the Rank
Order List.**

* * *

# Return of Service

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Please be sure you have reviewed and understood the requirements for your
application before submitting.

 In addition, all candidates must meet the Ontario criteria of eligibility.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  * Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  * Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  * Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  * Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Language assessment document accepted:  **TOEFL-iBT

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum score of 93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section. The TOEFL iBT Home Edition will be accepted as a substitute for the TOEFL iBT

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:**  must have minimum score of 7.0 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Occupational English Test (OET)
-Medicine

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP)

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum score of 9.0 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Letter of language proficiency

  * Letter of language proficiency is a letter from your Dean attesting that your medical school program of instruction was completed solely in English or French
  * Alternatively, candidates can submit a printout from the [World Directory of Medical Schools](http://www.wdoms.org/) which clearly states that the language of instruction is English or French.

Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site. Please
review specific program descriptions for more information.

Examinations

Required

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

**Results must be provided by File Review Date.**

  * **Note:  MCCQE part II passing score can be used to apply instead of the NAC passing score.**

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three current letters of reference from staff physicians are required. Strong
references from attending specialties supporting the applicant's choice of
Anesthesia as a specialty are welcomed. Reference letters must be dated from
August 2024 onwards. Letters dated prior to August 2024 will NOT be
considered.

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  600

  

 A personal letter is required:

A narrative (a maximum of 600 words) is required outlining:

  * Your aptitude for self-directed learning and organization. 
  * How you demonstrated resiliency and ability to handle stress. 
  * How you work well in a team environment. 

Candidates may wish to describe important achievements, extracurricular
activities, job experiences inside or outside of medicine, and why the
applicant would be a good fit with our program.

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

**Must be a graduate from an acceptable medical school listed on the World
Directory of Medical Schools website at<http://www.wdoms.org/>.**

Order from your Registrar. Must be English original or certified translation.

** **



* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applicants are chosen based on the following characteristics (no particular
order):

  * Aptitude for independent learning and organization 
  * knowledge and interest in the specialty 
  * Academic potential 
  * Aptitude for anesthesia - technical and non-technical 
  * Ability to handle stress 
  * Communication skills 
  * Teamwork and leadership potential 
  * Professionalism 
  * Participation in extracurricular activities 
  * Diversity 

\- Letters of recommendation from an anesthesiologists, or from other
specialists or supervisors supporting the applicant's choice of anesthesiology
as a specialty.

\- Performance on the Interview.

\- Personal letter and curriculum vitae.

\- References or Medical Student Performance Record suggesting good problem-
solving skills, knowledge base, attitude, Team Player/Collaborator, and
communication skills.

All applications to the program are reviewed in-depth by a panel of faculty
members and our chief resident. we will be screening applicants based on the
completed application.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will take place January 23 & 24,
2025. Interviews will be virtual. Teams invitations will be sent to successful
applicants.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Applicants that are felt to be
competitive for admission to the program will be offered an interview. the
program administrator will contact all applicants and those who are selected
for an interview will be asked to book a date and time.  
  
The CaRMS interview committee will be comprised of the Program Director, site
coordinators, competence committee chair, curriculum director and selected
residents by RPC.  
  
In accordance with the Best Practices in Applications and Selection (BPAS)
initiative we will be conducting several structured independent objective
assessments (10-15 minute interviews) conducted over a 90 minute period. Each
candidate will get the same question from the same interviewer(s). A
standardized grading matrix is used to grade each candidate's performance with
a balanced emphasis on the CanMeds roles. Our hope is to provide a fair,
reliable and valid assessment of the candidate's performance. Questions may be
behavioral or situational in nature and be designed to predict future success
in Anesthesiology training and practice.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

**Pre-Residency Program**

All International Medical Graduates accepted to all residency programs will be
required to complete the Pre-Residency Program (PRP) prior to entering a
residency program. Matched IMGs will be expected to attend the PRP virtually
and in-person through [Touchstone
Institute](https://linkprotect.cudasvc.com/url?a=https%3a%2f%2ftouchstoneinstitute.ca%2flearning%2fpreresidencyprogram%2f&c=E,1,1pmrj0brjE1Jtncubl-
JoSDah37A3ms-
KR6XMa7AWTWe9dQvR_LhM7FKM0qLPbW_NCHZBUn6R0tVjUDhVPsJvfh8LE-D64PuqwplO4izE85kVVicROo2ibQ,&typo=1).

**Specific Criteria for IMG candidates:**

Only candidates that have demonstrated exposure to anesthesia will be
considered, for example; having completed electives in anesthesiology, and/or
advanced training etc.

Recent graduate from Medical School or an advanced training program. It is
preferable that IMG candidates have no longer than 3 years away from clinical
exposure at the time of application.

At least one reference letter must be from an anesthesiologist. Demonstrated
interest in and knowledge of the Canadian Health Care System

Proficiency in Canmeds roles (see website Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Canada for more information).
[https://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/canmeds/canmeds-
framework-e](https://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/canmeds/canmeds-framework-e)

All international medical graduates will be required to sign a return of
service contract with the Ministry of Health and Long Term Care of the
Province of Ontario, in the specialty (including Family Medicine) to which
they have been matched.

## Program goals

Our residency program strives to create a learner-centered competency-based
program to effectively train anesthesiologists to respond to the evolving
needs of 21st century healthcare and residency education. Our Department and
faculty are dedicated to supporting our trainees work and learning experience
in becoming the best Anesthesiologists possible.

The University of Ottawa Anesthesiology post-graduate training program has
been approved by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons Canada.

## Selection process goals

Our residency program strives to manage a selection process that ensures
diversity and equity. In doing so, we are dedicated to the Best Practices in
Applicant Selection (BPAS) spirit of objectivity and transparency in the
selection process. We realize that a persons' strengths come from many lived
experiences that do not necessarily relate to achievements in academics or
research. The uOttawa DAPM aims to create an equitable and diverse community
of anesthesiologists. As such, we encourage applicants to share what
illustrates them as a whole person who has a vision to become a great
clinician. Our Department's mission is to provide high quality and safe care
to our patients, provide the best possible educational experience to our
trainees and to support high quality academic research/Scholarship. Our goal
is to seek out candidates who can help us achieve these goals.

## File review process

Review team composition : Program Director, Site Coordinators, RPC Residents,
etc.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 201 - 400  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  
25% of applicants are offered an interview.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We use a standardized scoring matrix to rank the candidates.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We use a standardized scoring matrix to rank the candidates.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We use a standardized scoring matrix to rank the candidates.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We use a standardized scoring matrix to rank the candidates.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  We use a standardized scoring matrix to rank the candidates.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  We use a standardized scoring matrix to rank the candidates.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  We use a standardized scoring matrix to rank the candidates.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  We use a standardized scoring matrix to rank the candidates.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We use a standardized scoring matrix to rank the candidates.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We use a standardized scoring matrix to rank the candidates.   
Other file component(s) |  Each applicant’s file will be reviewed by members of our selection committee. We use a standardized scoring matrix to rank the candidates. A score is assigned to each category in the file; personal letter, Dean’s letter, academic scholarship such as research or teaching involvement, leadership experience, reference letters, and extracurricular activities. We currently have space for 60 candidates to be invited for an interview.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Questions may be behavioral or situational in nature and be designed to predict future success in Anesthesia   
Collegiality |  Questions may be behavioral or situational in nature and be designed to predict future success in Anesthesia   
Communication skills |  Questions may be behavioral or situational in nature and be designed to predict future success in Anesthesia   
Health advocacy |  Questions may be behavioral or situational in nature and be designed to predict future success in Anesthesia   
Interest in the discipline |  Questions may be behavioral or situational in nature and be designed to predict future success in Anesthesia   
Interest in the program |  Questions may be behavioral or situational in nature and be designed to predict future success in Anesthesia   
Leadership skills |  Questions may be behavioral or situational in nature and be designed to predict future success in Anesthesia   
Professionalism |  Questions may be behavioral or situational in nature and be designed to predict future success in Anesthesia   
Scholarly activities |  Questions may be behavioral or situational in nature and be designed to predict future success in Anesthesia   
Other interview component(s) |  In accordance with the Best Practices in Applications and Selection (BPAS) initiative we will be conducting several structured independent objective assessments (10-15 minute interviews) conducted over a 90 minute period. Each candidate will get the same question from the same interviewer(s). A standardized grading matrix is used to grade each candidate’s performance with a balanced emphasis on the CanMeds roles. Our hope is to provide a fair, reliable and valid assessment of the candidate’s performance. Questions may be behavioral or situational in nature and be designed to predict future success in Anesthesiology training and practice.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  Our CaRMS selection committee will rank the applicant’s files based
on the criteria noted above, the top 60 candidates will be invited for an
interview. Candidate’s interview performance will be scored at each station
and tabulated for final ranking. At the end of the interview process the
committee will verify the rank list prior to submission to the CaRMS website.  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

We are the Department of Anesthesia and Pain Medicine at the University of
Ottawa. Our residency program prides itself in being national leaders in
Anesthesia education. We offer flexibility and accessibility by being small
enough to individualize each resident's experience while also being large
enough to offer a full range of anesthesia and tertiary care experiences. The
department has many enthusiastic teachers on staff who are committed to
resident education. The 145 faculty members in Ottawa provide a wide breadth
of clinical skill and research experience. We foster a close support
relationship between faculty and residents through our social activities and a
formal mentorship program.

A particular strength of the Ottawa program results from being pioneers in
Competency Based Medical Education. Our national leaders in specialty training
include regional anesthesia, pediatric anesthesia, cardiac anesthesia and Pain
Medicine. Our simulation program is a national leader in innovative programs
to support residents training in Crisis Management and managing rare events.
We have a newly accredited Pain Medicine Residency Program and are the first
center in Canada to have a formal perioperative echocardiography program. Our
research agenda focuses on enhancing perioperative care, pain management and
medical education.

The program meets or exceeds all of the Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Canada specialty training requirements. Our program successfully
underwent full accreditation in 2016. Our program includes an internationally
recognized model Pre- Admission Unit, a Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy Unit and a
multidisciplinary Chronic Pain Clinic. One of the unique assets of our
Anesthesia Program is proximal access to the headquarters of the Royal College
of Physician and Surgeons that is also located in Ottawa. As such, we have a
number of individuals within the Program that have major affiliations with the
Royal College and are also previous or current Royal College examiners.

Ottawa, as the Nation's capital, has many excellent cultural activities -
theatre, orchestra, restaurants, museums, art galleries, etc. Annual festivals
include the Jazz festival, Blues festival, Folk festival, Chamber music and
dance festivals to name but a few! Access to outdoor opportunities abound -
skating on the Rideau Canal; cross-country skiing, hiking or mountain biking
in the Gatineau hills is minutes away. World-class downhill skiing at Mont
Tremblant is 2 hours away; other good ski slopes are within a 1 hour drive
from downtown.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

This residency program curriculum is 5 years in duration, the Royal College or
College of Family Physicians of Canada standard. In July 2015, our training
program was the very first to launch a competency-based curriculum. In keeping
with the Royal College's overall CBD mandate, there will be a strong focus on
ensuring residents successfully demonstrate competencies within the defined
entrustable professional activities (EPA's) and milestones as defined by the
national curriculum of Royal College.

The CBD program is structured according to the Royal College template for all
specialties and includes four stages: Transition to Discipline, Foundations,
Core and Transition to Practice. In our new innovative program, we give our
residents a head start into their Anesthesia training by providing an
intensive Anesthesia Bootcamp early on in their Foundations block with a heavy
focus on simulation. We hope the intensive training early on will ensure our
residents are confident and able to meet the demands of clinical care.

Stages:

Transition to Discipline is 1 block in duration and consists of general
orientation and exposure to the operating rooms, acute pain service and pre-
admission unit.

Foundations stage is 24 blocks in duration. The initial blocks are "boot camp"
style, during this time, residents will acquire basic anesthesia knowledge and
skills that will allow them to successfully make the transition to the
clinical realm and to solo call responsibilities. The boot camp period
includes a significant amount of simulation, academic sessions, hands-on
workshops and case studies, in addition to ACLS and ATLS courses. During the
following blocks of foundations, the residents will practice their skills in
the general OR setting, the Pre-Anesthesia Unit (PAU), experience with the
Acute Pain Service, Trauma, ICU, Emergency, Pediatric ER

Ambulatory Anesthesia, Respirology, Cardiology and the Obstetrical unit.
Residents also get a transitioned exposure to anesthesia call as they shadow a
more senior anesthesia resident for the first 6 blocks of training.

Core stage is the mainstay of our curriculum where residents will complete
sub-specialty modules in such areas as: Chronic pain, vascular anesthesia,
regional anesthesia, obstetrical anesthesia, thoracic anesthesia, neuro
anesthesia and cardiac anesthesia. Operating room experiences in each of these
areas are supplemented by learner centered on-line case based modules and
other e-Learning strategies. Core is divided into a spiral-based curriculum
wherein the residents are able to complete both a junior and senior rotation
within major sub-specialties.

Transition to Practice stage is planned for 9 months at the end of residency.
It allows residents to practice in a more independent fashion as they prepare
to move on to practice as consultant anesthesiologists. Emphasis will be
placed on increasingly independent work and career planning - creating
physicians who are truly ready for independent practice.

For further information on the curriculum and program please visit our
websites

<http://med.uottawa.ca/anesthesiology/>



**Simulation:**  

The University of Ottawa Skills and Simulation Center is one of the largest
and most comprehensive simulation centers in North America. We play a pivotal
role in new developments in areas of innovative program and curricula
development. We offer the most extensive Simulation curriculum in Canada. Our
Anesthesia Bootcamp runs for three months in the first year of residency and
provides access to high and low fidelity simulation 1 day per week. Within the
Core years of residency each resident attends a minimum of two simulation
sessions per year. There are additional simulation experiences provided
outside the simulation centre via crisis management courses, team based
sessions, workshops, bootcamps and medical education related research
involvement. Our own faculty Dr. Michelle Chiu, is the Chair of the committee
to initiate and develop a Canadian National Anesthesia Simulation Curriculum
(CanNASC)



**Resources:**  

We have state of the art anesthetic machines in all our OR's (Adult GE-Aisys
CS2; Pediatric Draeger Zeus). Since June 2019, we have moved to the EPIC
electronic records management system to help provide world class care to our
patients. Access to the EPIC Electronic Medical Record (EMR) can be obtained
through an iPAD or a personal computer. Residents receive financial support
through the Department of Anesthesia to attend the annual CAS meeting, LUCAS
conference, present research papers at National Conferences, and are also
fully supported to complete ACLS, ATLS and NRP certifications.



**Program Evaluation:**

 The glue of our program is the Residency Program Committee (RPC) and Clinical
Competency Committee (CCC). These committees meet regularly throughout the
year to discuss all sites, rotations, and specific resident issues. Members of
this committee include the Program Director, Vice Chair of Education, Resident
Coordinators from the University of Ottawa Heart Institute, TOH General and
Civic Campuses, CHEO, chief residents and elected resident representative. We
have several ad hoc members covering the realm of education research,
simulation, family practice-anesthesia and undergraduate anesthesia. In order
to ensure that resident concerns and feedback are heard, not only are there
regular updates from RPC reps but we also have an annual program survey
(anonymous), bi-annual All Resident Meetings and a yearly meeting with the
Program Director.

The resident coordinators at all sites conduct regular face-to-face exit
interview with each resident at the conclusion of each stage and module, and
every resident meets with their assigned Faculty Academic Coach bi-annually,
together they track all performance data which gets submitted to the
Competence Committee.

The Anesthesia Program at the university of Ottawa has a solid accreditation
record with many strengths and no major weaknesses identified at the last
accreditation visit. Our end of year University of Ottawa program survey
reflects strengths in every aspect of our program: Leadership, curriculum,
resident well-being, collegiality, professional development and career
guidance. Also, the success rates on the Royal College Examinations remain
higher than national average with a 100% pass rate on the first attempt for
our Canadian Medical Graduates over the past many years.

* * *

# Training Sites

-Ottawa Hospital, General Campus

-Ottawa Hospital, Civic Campus

-Ottawa Hospital, Riverside Campus

-Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario

-University of Ottawa Heart Institute

-Community Rotations:  Queensway Carleton Hospital, Montfort Hospital

* * *

# Additional Information

For more information on our training program, please check out our University
of Ottawa Anesthesia Web Site at:

<https://www.uottawa.ca/faculty-medicine/anesthesiology/education-and-
training/postgraduate-anesthesiology>

**Enrichment Training Pathway:**  The enrichment pathway within the University
of Ottawa Anesthesiology Residency Program is designed to allow residents the
flexibility to seek out further professional opportunities or deviate from the
standard curriculum while still achieving the residency program requirements
set out by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. Residents
must meet the criteria outlined to be accepted into the pathway with the
guiding principle that residents must demonstrate capacity to fulfill BOTH
their residency program requirements AND those of their enrichment pathway
prior to acceptance.

This program was created to support residents who have educational endeavors
outside of the formal anesthesiology curriculum, and who have also
demonstrated that they will be able to accomplish these endeavors through a
strong academic and professional portfolio. This is an OPTIONAL program.



**The City:**

Ottawa, as the Nation's capital, has many excellent cultural activities -
theatre, orchestra, restaurants, museums, art galleries, etc. Annual festivals
include the Jazz festival, Blues festival, Folk festival, Winterlude to name
but a few! Access to outdoor opportunities abound -skating on the Rideau
canal, cross-country skiing, hiking or mountain biking in the Gatineau hills
is minutes away. World class downhill skiing a Mont Tremblant is 2 hours away,
other good ski slopes are within a 1-hour drive from downtown. We're central
and proximal to many other major cities such as Montreal (2 hours), Toronto (4
hours) and New York City (6 hours) which make perfect weekend getaways after a
busy week.  

Information about the City of Ottawa can be obtained from City of Ottawa
website
[http://ottawa.ca/en](../../../list/This%20program%20residency%20is%20for%204%20years.%20Program%20length%20of%20training%20does%20not%20exceed%20the%20Royal%20College%20or%20College%20of%20Family%20Physicians%20of%20Canada%20standard.%20Ottawa%20is%20the%20major%20referral%20for%20Eastern%20Ontario,%20offering%20excellent%20research%20and%20educational%20opportunities.%20The%20program%20meets%20or%20exceeds%20all%20of%20the%20Royal%20College%20of%20Physicians%20and%20Surgeons%20of%20Canada%20specialty%20training%20requirements,%20and%20is%20flexible%20enough%20to%20incorporate%20any%20specific%20resident%20training%20needs%20or%20objectives.%20Our%20program%20includes%20an%20internationally%20recognized%20model%20Pre-
Admission%20Unit,%20a%20Hyperbaric%20Oxygen%20Therapy%20Unit%20and%20a%20multidisciplinary%20Chronic%20Pain%20Clinic.%20%20The%20University%20of%20Ottawa%20Skills%20and%20Simulation%20Center%20is%20one%20of%20the%20largest%20and%20most%20comprehensive%20simulation%20centres%20in%20North%20America.%20%20This%20is%20a%20university-
wide%20simulation%20centre%20representing%20all%20of%20the%20specialties.%20Our%20unique%20close%20proximity%20to%20the%20headquarters%20of%20the%20Royal%20College%20of%20Physicians%20and%20Surgeons%20of%20Canada%20in%20Ottawa%20allows%20us%20to%20take%20a%20pivotal%20role%20in%20new%20developments%20in%20areas%20of%20innovative%20program%20and%20curricula%20development.%20The%20130%20faculty%20members%20in%20Ottawa%20have%20a%20strong%20commitment%20to%20resident%20education%20and%20research.%20Our%20program%20is%20small%20enough%20to%20foster%20a%20close%20support%20relationship%20between%20faculty%20and%20residents,%20yet%20large%20enough%20to%20offer%20a%20comprehensive%20and%20broad-
based%20training%20program.%20Residents%20receive%20support%20to%20attend%20annual%20conferences,%20present%20research%20papers,%20and%20also%20are%20supported%20to%20complete%20ACLS,%20ATLS,%20ACES,%20PALS%20and%20NRP%20courses.%20%20%20The%20glue%20of%20our%20program%20is%20the%20Residency%20)

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26697?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26697