#  University of Calgary - Medical Genetics and Genomics - Calgary

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on October 23, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Eliza Phillips  

Address Medical Genetics  
Alberta Children's Hospital  
28 Oki Drive NW  
Calgary, Alberta, T3B 6A8  

Work  403-955-7613

Websites of Interest [ PGME program link
](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/departments/medical-genetics/home)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Eliza Phillips, MD, FRCPC, FCCMG

Title: Program Director

Email: eliza.phillips@ahs.ca

  

Name: Brenda Gallagher

Title: Program Administrator

Email: brenda.gallagher@ahs.ca

Phone: 403-955-7613

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please note that the University of Calgary will have TWO positions for
Canadian Medical Graduates for the 2025 match.

Join an interactive session with faculty and residents from Medical Genetics
programs across Canada. Learn about our patient populations, practice models,
future career opportunities, and training routes to become a medical
geneticist.

Register at: https://forms.gle/1B4SARMko8TFApNj8

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required and should be from faculty members.
Only the first three letters of reference will be reviewed. Reference letters
should be sent directly to CaRMS by the referee and should arrive at the CaRMS
office by the stated CaRMs deadline.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

Each applicant is expected to submit a personal letter (maximum word count
750), outlining his/her interest in and aptitude for training in Medical
Genetics and Genomics, and his/her reasons for applying to the University of
Calgary program specifically.

Custom Résumé / CV

The review committee will require a Curriculum Vitae with your application

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applications and the supporting documents will be reviewed by the Residency
Program Committee. Short-listed candidates will be contacted for an interview.

Supporting documents or letters of reference could be considered on a case-by-
case bases.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 30, 2025
  * January 31, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will take place on Thursday,
January 30, 2025 and Friday, January 31, 2025. Depending on the number of
candidates, interviews may only be offered on one of the two days.  
  
If a qualified applicant is unable to attend on this day, he/she is encouraged
to contact the program for alternate arrangements.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Our interviews in 2025 will be on a
virtual platform and will include an opportunity to meet with several clinical
geneticists and metabolic physicians, genetic residents/trainees, genetic
counsellors and laboratory geneticists. Candidates will also be asked to
deliver a short presentation about an interesting patient or research relevant
to Medical Genetics and Genomics.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

All selection to the program is through the Canadian Resident Matching
Service.  Preferred candidates will have a B.Sc or graduate degree with a
emphasis on genetics. Additional work experience or elective in a related
field is desirable. However, all applicants with a genuine interest in Medical
Genetics and Genomics will be considered. In addition to academic standing,
the candidate should have good communication skills which are confirmed in
his/her references.

## Program goals

The overarching goal of Medical Genetics and Genomics is to serve the needs of
patients and families with rare genetic diseases, through diagnosis,
treatment, research and advocacy. We aim for graduates of our residency
program to be prepared for practice across the broad scope of Medical
Genetics, or to be ready for entry into a clinical or research fellowship of
their choice.

1\. Environment: We aim to provide a safe, supportive, collaborative teaching
and learning environment and to support the health and well-being of our
residents, preceptors and program staff.

2\. Residents: We endeavor to recruit high quality medical students and to
fill the available residency training position(s) on the first iteration of
the CaRMS match.

3\. Teaching: Our goal is to support preceptors and faculty who are effective
teachers and strong clinicians, in order to provide high quality teaching,
supervision and mentoring to residents.

4\. Curriculum: We strive to provide an effective, consistent and integrated
curriculum in line with the future role of medical geneticists.

5\. Administration: We aim to provide effective and efficient administrative
processes to support all aspects of our program.

6\. Learning: Our goal is to graduate competent medical geneticists capable of
working in a variety of settings.

7\. Accreditation: We endeavor to maintain full accreditation by the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

8\. Social accountability: Our goal is to produce graduates who can deliver
clinical care and conduct research in Medical Genetics and Genomics in an
ethical manner, and to play their role in meeting local and national health
care needs.

9\. Assessment and evaluation: We strive to use rigorous, transparent and
constructive methods of resident assessment, faculty evaluation and feedback.
Our goal is for all residents to pass the RCPSC certifying examination. We aim
to undertake regular, consistent and effective program evaluation.

## Selection process goals

Given the overarching goal of Medical Genetics and Genomics and our program
goals (as outlined above), we endeavor to select residents with the necessary
skills and attributes to meet these goals. Successful applicants to our
program must have excellent clinical reasoning and communication skills. They
should demonstrate intellectual curiosity, an enthusiasm for learning, and
academic potential. They should be empathetic and compassionate. A high degree
of integrity and professionalism are important. Personal resilience,
perseverence, and responsiveness to feedback are valued attributes.  

## File review process

Review team composition : The Admissions Subcommittee of the Residency Program
Committee includes the Program Director, Assistant Program Director, at least
two other clinical geneticists, and at least one of each of the following:
laboratory geneticists, genetic counselors, and resident physicians.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Writing and organization skills; academic activities and interests   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Demonstration of an interest and understanding of the field by completing one or more electives in medical genetics is encouraged, along with exposure to a variety of disciplines   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Not specifically evaluated   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Experiences and activities that demonstrate communication, collaboration, or leadership skills are taken into account   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Formal/informal leadership roles; teaching and mentorship   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Unexplained gaps in training, red flags   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Communication skills; motivation; interest in and aptitude for Medical Genetics   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Professionalism; communication skills; collaboration; clinical reasoning   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Academic productivity and potential   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Anticipated successful completion of undergraduate medical education requirements   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Behavior, attitude, ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  English language proficiency; oral presentation skills   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrated experience in patient advocacy   
Interest in the discipline |  Genuine understanding of and enthusiasm for Medical Genetics   
Interest in the program |  Genuine understanding of and movitation for living and training in Calgary   
Leadership skills |  Not specifically evaluated   
Professionalism |  Behavior, attitude   
Scholarly activities |  Academic potential   
Other interview component(s) |  Oral presentation   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Calgary Medical Genetics and Genomics program provides comprehensive
training in all areas of Medical Genetics, with an excellent balance between
teaching and clinical service.  Starting in the third year, our residents
typically participate in monthly outreach genetics clinics in smaller cites
(Lethbridge and Medicine Hat) which provides exposure to community based
genetics practice.

Starting in the third year, there is a monthly resident clinic featuring
classic syndromes/genetic conditions selected specifically for this clinic to
ensure that residents gain experience working through important diagnoses and
clinical approaches.  This clinic also allows residents to gain experience in
longitudinal patient care and managing an outpatient clinic.

Our centre has an active training program in the clinical diagnostic
laboratories. The Canadian College of Medical Geneticists (CCMG) laboratory
trainees regularly interact with the genetics residents at teaching and
seminars, which provides a mutually enriching learning environment.

Our residency program organizes one or two clinical genetics symposia per year
with invited external speakers who are experts in the field.  Time is
allocated for residents to interact with the speakers, typically including a
dinner.  Recent topics have included neurogenetics, genodermatoses,
embryology, cardiovascular genetics, skeletal dysplasias, pediatric cancer
genetics, newborn screening, neurodevelopmental disorders, inherited
ophthalmologic disorders and somatic mosaicism.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Program Outline

The first two years of the program involve training in Pediatrics, Internal
Medicine, Obstetric/Maternal Fetal Medicine, and crisis counseling. The third
year is focused on Clinical Metabolics and laboratory experience with
rotations in Cytogenetics, Molecular Genetics, and Biochemical Genetics.
Clinical genetics exposure also starts in the third year, including monthly
resident clinics.

The core Clinical Genetics training during the fourth and fifth years of
training is largely based at the Alberta Children's Hospital (ACH), with
consultation services also provided to the four other acute care sites in
Calgary. Dedicated rotations in Adult Genetics will occur at a separate adult
genetics out-patient clinic. Adult and pediatric in-patients and out-patients
with a wide range of conditions are seen, including malformation syndromes and
inherited metabolic disorders. The Hereditary Cancer Program provides
counselling and testing for adults with personal and/or family histories of
cancer. Other specialty clinics include Neurogenetics, Connective Tissue
Disorders, Cardiovascular Genetics, and Ophthalmic Genetics. In addition, the
Prenatal Genetics Clinic is nearby and closely affiliated with the Maternal
Fetal Medicine service. Senior residents also attend outreach clinics in
Lethbridge and Medicine Hat.

PGY-1

General and subspecialty Pediatrics rotations.

PGY-2

General and subspecialty Internal Medicine, crisis counseling, Maternal Fetal
Medicine rotations, and fertility clinic.

PGY-3

Cytogenetics, Biochemical Genetics, Molecular Genetics, Clinical Metabolics,
and Clinical Genetics.

PGY-4

Clinical Genetics, with the possibility of research and electives.

PGY-5

Clinical Genetics, research and/or electives.

Research

Completion of a scholarly project is expected.  Many of the Medical Genetics
faculty are actively involved in research.  Guidance for the development of a
research project is provided early in training by a research mentor as well as
by Genetics faculty. Most genetics residents participate in a one-month
research course, coordinated for residents of various programs, during their
first or second year and this can help establish a research project. Residents
can receive funding to attend at least one conference per year, if they have
submitted an abstract.

Seminars & Rounds

Educational opportunities include Medical Genetics Grand Rounds/Seminar
series, weekly Fetal Diagnosis and Therapy Rounds, monthly Cytogenetics
abnormal case reviews, monthly Molecular Genetics Review, bi-weekly
Dysmorphology case reviews, monthly Metabolics teaching, monthly Exome Rounds
and monthly Journal Club.  The bulk of the core curriculum is covered in Core
Month, which involves one month of protected teaching per year, in each of the
five years.  Additional teaching time is protected for senior residents.

Teaching is provided by the faculty in the Department of Medical Genetics and
Genomics.  Their areas of expertise encompass all general and subspecialty
aspects of Clinical Genetics, Biochemical Genetics, Molecular Genetics,
Cytogenetics, Population Genetics, Teratology, among other topics.  In
addition, teaching is also provided by colleagues from other specialties whose
skills and qualifications are complimentary and relevant to Genetics.

Courses

The residency program provides funding to the NAMA course, once during
training.

Our residents participate in an advanced cytogenetics and molecular genetics
University course in second or third year.

* * *

# Training Sites

Most of the five-year Medical Genetics and Genomics residency is spent at the
Alberta Children's Hospital (ACH), except for those rotations in Internal
Medicine at other adult health care sites. The Prenatal Genetics Clinic is
situated adjacent to Maternal Fetal Medicine, which is off-site. The
Hereditary Cancer Clinic and Adult Genetics Clinic is located off site. The
three diagnostic laboratories are located in the same location at the ACH,
which enhances collaborative teaching.  There is dedicated workspace for
residents, including computer access, at all the Genetics Clinics and
Laboratory spaces.

There is a library in the Genetics Clinic which contains an extensive
collection of up-to-date textbooks in all areas of genetics as well as other
areas in medicine.

Our program supports and encourages attendance at national and international
courses and conferences, and local meetings and retreats, both in person (when
possible) or virtual. There is a regular discussion with the program director
about opportunities and funding options.

* * *

# Additional Information

The Medical Genetics and Genomics Residency Training Program at the University
of Calgary transitioned to competency-based medical education (CBME) in July
2022 with all trainees entering the program after this date affiliated with
[Competence by Design (CBD)](https://www.royalcollege.ca/en/standards-and-
accreditation/competence-by-design.html), which aims to enhance patient care
by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving patient
needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education process.

CBD uses time as a framework for competency assessment rather than the basis
for progression. It is not anticipated that the duration of training will
change for the majority of trainees. Residency training is broken down into
[stages](https://canmeds.royalcollege.ca/en/milestones), and each stage will
have a series of entrustable professional activities (EPAs) and milestones
based on the required competencies. These EPAs and milestones improve learning
outcomes and will involve more frequent, formative assessments within the
clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving feedback
on the skills they need.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27432?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27432