#  McMaster University - Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology - Hamilton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 27, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Ipshita Kak  

Address Pathology and Molecular Medicine  
Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology  
McMaster University  
Hamilton, Ontario, L8N 3Z5  

Websites of Interest [ Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology
](https://pathologymolecularmedicine.healthsci.mcmaster.ca/education/laboratory-
medicine-clinical-postgraduate-training-programs/residency-programs/general-
pathology/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Katie Wang

Title: Education Associate Team Lead

Email: pmmgp@mcmaster.ca

Phone: 3653667234

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/).  It is important to review the
requirements carefully.

To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit:
<https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/>

Please review the General Pathology [website](https://pathres.mcmaster.ca/)
for more program information.

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

**Additional criteria for IMGs:**

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site.**

**CELPIP:  **must have minimum score of 9 in each of the four skills in the
same sitting

**IELTS ACADEMIC:  **must have minimum score of 7.0 in each of the four skills
in the same sitting

**Letter of language proficiency** is a letter from your Dean attesting that
your medical school program of instruction was completed solely in English or
French.

**OET MEDICINE** : must have minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in
the same sitting

**TOEFL IBT:  **must have minimum score of 93 with a minimum score of 24 on
the speaking section. The **TOEFL iBT Home Edition**  will be accepted as a
substitute for the TOEFL iBT.

Examinations

Required

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

 **The National Assessment Collaboration (NAC) Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE)  is mandatory for all IMGs. **The results are required by the file review opening date. For more information click on the following link [National Assessment Collaboration | Medical Council of Canada](http://mcc.ca/examinations/nac-overview/)

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

For the 2025 CaRMS match IMGs must have written and passed the Medical Council
of Canada Qualifying Examination Part 1 ([MCCQE1](https://mcc.ca/)). Exam
results must be provided by the File Review Opening Date.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Your application will not be reviewed without THREE letters of reference, and
only three letters will be reviewed. References due by CaRMS document
deadline.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Your application will not be reviewed without a Personal Letter. Due by CaRMS
document deadline

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Photo is used as a memory aid, only

Custom Résumé / CV

Due by CaRMS document deadline.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed. Documents that are
not in English must be accompanied by a notarized translation.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applications, files, late paperwork etc., submitted past CaRMS document
deadline will not be reviewed, or considered.

Reference letters from the institution/ discipline will not be required for
consideration of interview.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Details regarding interview dates: Virtual
Interviews will take place during the CaRMS interview period, Monday, January
20th and Tuesday, January 21st.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews are required.  
  
To be initiated by the Program. The Program will notify all applicants through
CaRMS Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected
for an interview.  
  
Candidates are typically interviewed by two to five staff from the Education
Subcommittee.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

\- Good academic standing

\- Broad-based science background

\- Genuine interest in General Pathology

\- Transfers between Laboratory Medicine sub-specialties will not be
encouraged

## Program goals

**Medical Knowledge:  **The resident will be knowledgeable in
clinicopathological information in anatomical pathology, hematological
pathology, medical biochemistry and medical microbiology. This will include
the basic pathogenesis and related pathological and other laboratory
investigations finding with correspondence clinical findings for different
disease in variable patients population. **Communication Skills** : The
resident will be able to function as a member of the laboratory health care
team. By communicating effectively with technical staff, support staff,
supervisors and colleagues. **Collaborator:  **The resident will understand
the role of the general pathologist in the health care team. This will be
obtained by gaining an appreciation of the collaborative role of the
pathologist with other clinical services and researchers and understands some
of the issues around the use of tissues for research purposes. **Manager:
**The resident will gain an appreciation of the laboratory management
structure and they may be exposed to issues surrounding workload in the
laboratory. The resident will be aware of safety and quality assurance issues
as well as issues surrounding storage of material. **Health advocate:  **The
resident will understand the role of the laboratory in providing accurate
information pertaining to public health issues, particularly related to
infectious diseases and understand the importance of promoting and reinforcing
to the public and the essential contribution of laboratory medicine to health.
**Scholar:  **The resident will be capable of self-directed study using
appropriate texts and information sources, including literature and Internet
searches. The resident is expected to identify gaps in knowledge and
expertise. **Professional:**  The resident is expected to perform their duties
within the laboratory ethically, by showing respect to all staff, colleagues
and learners. As well as responding appropriately to constructive criticism
and acting in a collegial manner.

## Selection process goals

Residents documents, reference letters and interview performance demonstrate:

  * Good academic standing and broad based science background including basic and clinical medical knowledge. As well as, expression of genuine interest in general pathology 

  * Exceptional verbal and nonverbal communication skills, in addition to the ability to communicate complex ideas clearly and effectively. 

  * Ability to work adequately in a team setting, and establish relationships based on trust and respect with other team members. 

  * Effective personal time management skills, and ability to balance between professional and personal responsibilities. 

  * Active involvement within the community to advocate current and rising social and healthcare issues, and address the needs of the population. 

  * Active participation in enhancing the practice and advancing general pathology. 

  * Respect and punctuality. 

## File review process

Review team composition : The interview performance will be scored and
conjoined with CaRMS application scores; accordingly, a ranking list will be
issued. Interview members will consist of the program director, chief resident
and other pathology staff members including Medical Microbiologist and Medical
Biochemist.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  To evaluate experience, elective and researches in general pathology disciplines.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Optional, could be valued, in particular those from laboratory medicine specialties and related clinical discipline, but are not mandatory.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  MCCQE Part 1 statement of results and NAC exam statement of results   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering in committee service medical and non-medical.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Positions in office, members in clubs& groups to exhibit ability to deal with challenges & conflicts   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  To express interest in general pathology and why you are suited for General Pathology program at McMaster University.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive personal qualities and interactions with colleagues and patients.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Demonstrating interest in researches particularly in pathology   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
Other file component(s) |  Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Examination Part I.  
For IMG applicants: Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Examination Part II
and/or National Assessment Collaboration (NAC) examination.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Candidates should demonstrate genuine interest in
general pathology by previous elective rotations in Anatomical pathology or
other pathology disciplines or in research. We recognize that the COVID-19
pandemic has impacted candidates' opportunities to arrange and complete
electives and would like to reassure you that a lack of elective activity this
year will not negatively impact your application to our program.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Able to work efficiently with other health workers, patients and their families.   
Collegiality |  Working in a team sharing responsibility and authority.   
Communication skills |  Having verbal and non-verbal communication skills in dealing with patients and challenging situation   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrate an interest and ability to respond to an individual patient's diagnostic needs and gain a basic knowledge about the importance of screening in the early detection and treatment including the role of molecular diagnosis.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrating genuine interest in general pathology   
Interest in the program |  Interested in living in Hamilton   
Leadership skills |  Develop a respectful relationship with other colleagues in the health care professions to promote he   
Professionalism |  Express ethical behavior with others   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this file component   
Other interview component(s) |  We may consider information gathered outside of the CaRMS application and local interview processes   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The McMaster Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology (DCP)/General Pathology Program
has a stellar reputation for graduating residents who are valued for the depth
of skill and expertise they provide in the wide breadth of the discipline. The
Program's strengths are an organized, yet flexible curriculum plan tailored to
fit each resident’s needs, a cohesive resident group, highly responsive
program admin, dedicated faculty and a driven Program Director who is a
previous graduate of the Program.  
  
**I. CONTENT AND ORGANIZATION OF THE PROGRAM**  

**Please see Program Curriculum Section**  

  
**II. RESOURCES**  

The Program provides numerous funds for residents for books, travel to
conferences as well as research grants. The Program appoints academic coaches
for each resident early in PGY1 to help monitor progress. McMaster Diagnostic
and Clinical Pathology (DCP)/General Pathology also offers a mentorship
program in addition to academic coaches which allows residents to approach
staff within their areas of interest for career planning advice. We are also
affiliated with numerous community sites (which are reimbursed through
MacCare) including but not limited to Oakville, Brantford, Kitchener Waterloo
etc. The Program is also extremely proud to have liasioned with Mackenzie
Health to provide residents the opportunity to be involved with Digital
Pathology sign-out.  
  
**III. ACADEMIC AND SCHOLARLY ASPECTS OF THE PROGRAM**  
  
Mandatory academic half days are every Wednesday morning (anatomical
pathology) and afternoon session (Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology
(DCP)/General Pathology) . Residents also present journal clubs and
interesting slide review rounds. DCP residents routinely attend Transfusion
Medicine Boot camp. Furthermore, PGME McMaster has numerous sessions on career
development, teaching to teach, financial planning, wellness etc.  

  
Residents are expected to present at the Annual Residents Research Day. PGY 2
residents often work up an interesting case; however in later years they are
encouraged to undertake more comprehensive projects. DCP residents present at
various local, national and international conferences.  
  
**IV. EVALUATION OF RESIDENT PERFORMANCE**  
  
During rotations, residents submit relevant Entrustable Professional Activity
forms (EPAs) to staff they work with. A midterm evaluation is completed by the
rotation supervisor. At the end of each rotation a standard resident
evaluation form will be completed by the rotation supervisor with input from
other staff as appropriate. Residents will also complete an exit exam after
the end of most rotations. Yearly subscription to the American Society of
Clinical Pathology exam (RISE) Exam is paid for by the Program. The Program
also organizes Annual in-house exams as well as May slide Exam for additional
testing to help residents prepare for their Royal College examination.



The Competence Committee evaluates resident progress and provides feedback
regularly to the resident and their academic coach. The CC uses numerous data
to help inform decisions related to promotion including but not limited to
number of EPAs generated, number of specimens seen (based on resident’s
electronic log), number of successful EPAs, ITARs, Exam scores, academic coach
report etc.

**V.   RESEARCH FUNDING**

Residents have access to the Pathology and Molecular Medicine (PMM) Department
Resident Research Grant to which they can submit at any given time. This is in
addition to multiple different grants available through hospital services,
McMaster and the Royal College.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Competency-Based Medical Education (CBME):**  

Physician training focuses on achievement of outcomes and based on a framework
of competencies (CanMEDS). The Competence Continuum divides residency training
into four stages: Transition to discipline, Foundations of discipline, Core of
discipline and, finally, Transition to practice.



PGY 1:

_Transition to Discipline stage (TTD):_ 2 blocks: First block introductory
Boot camp covering basics of the laboratory including normal histology
followed by 1 Block Anatomical Pathology  

_Foundation stage:_ 11 blocks:  Autopsy (1 block), Surgical Oncology,
Hematology, infectious disease, Medical Oncology, Endocrinology, Pediatric
Oncology, and remainder Anatomical Pathology blocks



PGY 2-5 :

_Core stage:_ 46 blocks: Anatomical Pathology (including subspecialties),
Hematopathology/hematology, Medical Microbiology, Medical Biochemistry,
Community Hospitals and Elective/Research rotations. Royal College Examination
will take place at the end of Core stage in a 2 step manner: written and
practical in Spring of PGY4 and Oral exam in Fall of PGY5 unless otherwise
mentioned on the Royal College website.



_Transition to Practice stage (TTP):_ 6 blocks: Senior resident rotations in
Anatomical Pathology Hematopathology/hematology, Medical Microbiology, Medical
Biochemistry, and research/elective



* * *

# Training Sites

McMaster University postgraduate programs are integrated in cooperation with
the affiliated teaching hospitals St. Joseph's Healthcare and Hamilton Health
Sciences. The regionalized laboratory services in Hamilton, one of the first
in Canada, provide cost-effective patient care through 4 main hospital sites:
McMaster University Medical Center, St. Joseph’s Hospital, Juravinski Hospital
and Cancer center and Hamilton General Hospital.  

Each site in Hamilton has specific areas of expertise with associated
clinicopathological rounds providing a broad experience in Diagnostic and
Clinical Pathology (DCP)/General Pathology. Each site has designated resident
spaces with full workstations and a wide resident library that is frequently
updated (in addition to electronic resources access through the McMaster
library). Site and rotation supervisors have clear guidelines for resident
orientation, scheduling, and wellness. In addition, residents have access to a
wellness coordinator and ombudsperson for support as required.

* * *

# Additional Information

LIVING IN HAMILTON  
  
Hamilton is uniquely situated in the Golden Horseshoe region – close to
Toronto and all of its attractions, yet far enough away from the fast city
pace of the big city. Hamilton is immersed in rich cultural activities and
events. There is easy access to parks, conservation areas, walking and biking
trails. For individuals with families, there are many family orientated
communities with good schooling.  
  
For more information please visit [City of
Waterfalls](http://www.cityofwaterfalls.ca/) and [Tourism
Hamilton](http://tourismhamilton.com/).

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26522?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26522