#  University of Manitoba - Radiation Oncology - Winnipeg

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Saranya  Kakumanu  

Address Radiation Oncology  
ON2114 - 675 McDermot Avenue  
Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3E 0V9  

Work  (204) 787-1356

Fax  (204) 786-0194

Websites of Interest [ CancerCare Manitoba ](http://www.cancercare.mb.ca)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Saranya Kakumanu

Title: Director, Radiation Oncology Residency Program

Email: skakumanu@cancercare.mb.ca

Phone: 204-787-2116

  

Name: Julianna Van Den Bueken

Title: Program Administrator

Email: jvandenbeuken2@hsc.mb.ca

Phone: 204-787-1328

  

* * *

# Important Information

The University of Manitoba campuses are located on original lands of
Anishinaabeg, Cree, Oji-Cree, Dakota, and Dene peoples, and on the homeland of
the Métis Nation.  The Department of insert name additionally participates in
clinical programs in Inuit communities.  We respect the Treaties and
Agreements that were made on these territories, we acknowledge the harms and
mistakes of the past, and we dedicate ourselves to move forward in partnership
with Indigenous communities in a spirit of reconciliation and collaboration.

MANDATORY ORIENTATION SESSIONS:  
The mandatory full day Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation for all
residents will be held on **Thursday, June 26, 2025** _**.**_**  
**

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Program application language: English

  
You are required to fulfill ALL of the most current Provincial Criteria for
Canadian Medical Graduates for Manitoba.

The criteria can be found at: https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. We ask that your referees to speak to
your clinical abilities and to

your interpersonal and communication skills. Please select supervisors,
preceptors or other individuals who  
have had ample opportunity to assess you as a candidate for the program. The
reference letters should be  
both descriptive and objective and comply with CaRMS recommendations.

  
All letters of reference must be current and dated on or after January 1,
2023. Undated reference letters will  
not be accepted. Do not arrange for more than three letters of reference as
additional letters will not be  
reviewed.  

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Order from your Registrar. Must be English original or certified translation.

If your transcript indicates poor academic standing, course failure(s),
leave(s) of absence, or breach of professionalism, please attach a
supplementary statement to the beginning of your e-CaRMS Personal Statement
entitled "Transcript Addendum" addressing the respective circumstance(s).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Candidates should submit a personal letter indicating their interest in
Radiation Oncology, their reasons for selecting a career in Radiation Oncology
and should direct some attention to their interests outside of medicine.

A personal letter is required. We are looking for mature, enthusiastic
physicians who bring with them a broad range of life experiences, are
committed to providing excellent patient care and can embrace the depth and
breadth of experiences our program offers.

In 500 words or less, please address the following areas: What life
experiences demonstrate your adaptability, team skills, leadership potential,
and sense of compassion? Why do you feel the University of Manitoba would be
the right choice for you? In what ways are you connected to Manitoba?

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All applications are reviewed by the CaRMs selection committee. Multiple
reviewers review the applications and the choice of candidates for interview
is by consensus. Important criteria include the personal letter, references,
electives, rotation evaluations and the Dean's letter/medical student
performance report.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 7, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews are required and are currently
scheduled on Friday, February 7, 2025. Interviews will be conducted virtually
via Zoom.  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will be conducted
virtually via Zoom.  
  
The interview is conducted by a panel consisting of members of the Residency
Program Committee. There will be a separate one-on-one interview with the
program director.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The Section of Radiation Oncology at the University of Manitoba is committed
to a fair, equitable, and transparent application process. We maintain the
right to choose the applicants we feel are the best individuals for our
residency training program. The following criteria will be used as a baseline
to determine who will be considered for an interview. Not all applicants whose
files meet our minimum criteria will be offered interviews; only the top
candidates will be offered an interview. A virtual interview is mandatory to
be considered for ranking.

General Considerations

\- An acceptable academic record

\- Maturity and responsibility

\- Strong interpersonal skills

\- An interest in oncology in general, but demonstrated interest in Radiation
Oncology is preferred.

\- Interest or experience in basic or clinical research is viewed positively.

## Program goals

The mission of the Radiation Oncology Residency Program in the University of
Manitoba and CancerCare Manitoba is to train the next generation of experts
and leaders of Radiation Oncology to be skillful in the practice of clinical
and academic oncology as well as the use of radiotherapy in the treatment of
disease, and to be caring and compassionate in the treatment of patients.

Upon successful completion of training, a resident is expected to have:

  1. Clinical competence in oncology and technical proficiency in therapeutic uses of radiation.

  2. A sound background in the sciences basic to the understanding of malignant disease and its treatment by radiation therapy and other modalities.

  3. Good clinical skills in patient assessment and management, developed by assuming responsibility for the care of both hospitalized and ambulatory patients.

  4. Proficiency in planning and executing radiation treatments utilizing external beam, intracavitary and interstitial radioactive sources, and systemically administered radioisotopes.

  5. Good knowledge, skills, and attitudes for effective patient-centred care and service to a diverse population.

  6. The ability to address issues of age, gender, sexual orientation, culture, ethnicity and ethics in all aspects of practice in a professional manner.

  7. Good awareness of the limitations of their knowledge and experience as new practitioners of the specialty, and understand the need for continuing medical education, and the potential value of future specialist training.

  8. Good appreciation and understanding of the need for continuing basic science and clinical research in radiation oncology. They will be familiar with clinical research methodologies so that they might be in a position to benefit from further training in this area, and make their own contribution to clinical research should they so wish.

The University of Manitoba is committed to the social justice principles of
equity, access & participation and to promoting opportunities for systemically
marginalized groups who have been excluded from full participation at the
University and the larger community including Indigenous, Black, racially
marginalized Peoples, persons with disabilities and those who identify as
2SLGBTQIA+ (Two Spirit, lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, questioning, intersex,
asexual and other diverse sexual identities) and women.

## Selection process goals

Identify applicants interested in Radiation Oncology, and those who will
develop into exceptional Radiation Oncology physicians.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability to interact appropriately
with patients and colleagues.

Identify applicants who have demostrated ability and enthusiasm to learn and
are able to adapt to the various demands of Radiation Oncology

Identify applicants that interact professionally with patients and colleagues.

Identify applicants with excellent basic clinical skills, particularly in the
realm of communication.

Identify applicants with a clear interest in clinical genetics through
documented exposure(s) in a clinical genetics unit.

Identify applicant who demonstrate an ability and enthusiasm to learn and are
able to adapt to the various demands of residency training

Identify applicants who have demonstrated attributes highlighted in the
CanMEDS 2015 roles.

An inclusive, open and diverse community is essential to excellence and
fosters voices that have been ignored or discouraged. To address the Rady
Faculty of Health Sciences commitment to equity, access and participation, and
in recognition of the underrepresentation of members of historically and
currently excluded groups,  our program has taken the following proactive
measures as part of our selection process:  _Implicit bias training for all
selection committee members, community member participation in selection
processes, diverse representation of selection committee members, minimum one
blinded interviewer, use of MMI interview format, inclusion of interview
questions  targeted to assess applicant commitment to EDIA, offering necessary
accommodations during the interview process, second pass/review of applicants
below interview and rank order list cut off to review for possible bias in
scoring, orientation to all assessors to scoring rubrics, file review
completed by dedicated, trained group._

We strive for diverse perspectives and cultural safety throughout the hiring
process (resident selection committees, short-list of applicants, interviews).
We ask all applicants to include an EDIA statement in their personal letter
with evidence demonstrating their own commitment to EDIA in their work and
training thus far.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team is composed of the Program Director,
Lead Resident, Senior Resident, Program Administrator, and selected Faculty
members.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We evaluate the content, including research, publications, electives   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Clinical evaluations (in particular those from Radiation Oncology or other Oncology related rotation   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Academic performance   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteer and mentoring activities (medical and non-medical)   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Holding office in student government, club, or organization   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Performance in clinical rotations; demonstrated interpersonal skills   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in discipline and local program; explanation for gaps in application   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Knowledge and interest in discipline; positive interaction with colleagues and patients   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest and aptitude for research   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high quality patient care through working in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Behaviour, attitude, ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak and write in English   
Health advocacy |  Involvement in health promotion activities (e.g. smoking cessation, screening programs)   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated ability to play the role of a Rad Oncologist: clinical, technical, compassionate care   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest in living in Winnipeg   
Leadership skills |  Involvement in the continuous development and improvement of medical care   
Professionalism |  Interaction with staff, residents, and program administrator   
Scholarly activities |  Demonstrated ability to discuss research work and demonstrated ability to identify limitations and overcome them.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**About our program**

We have an excellent group of residents who interact well and excel in their
clinical and research endeavors. As a relatively small program, we can provide
residents with close supervision and are responsive to their needs.

Our catchment area includes all of Manitoba and much of Northwestern Ontario.
Most, if not all, oncologic patients within the catchment area go through
Cancer Care Manitoba thus seen by the residents.

One of the few Gamma Knife Radiosurgery units in Canada provides for an unique
experience in stereotactic radiosurgery. Winnipeg hosts world-class research
facilities that welcome collaborative endeavors. Our residents can participate
at the level of principal investigator on sophisticated, leading edge projects
with collaboration of the RIOH

Our graduates have a very high success rate at the Royal College Certification
Examination and have successfully acquired fellowships throughout Canada and
the United States.  All have also successfully obtained permanent employment
in Radiation Oncology both in an academic and community settings.



**About  ****Winnipeg**

Winnipeg is a vibrant city of approximately 740,000 at the junction of the Red
and Assiniboine Rivers in southern Manitoba. Cottage Country is within a one
hour drive either at Lake Winnipeg or at Lake of the Woods in Northwestern
Ontario. There are several award winning beaches which make our summers
extremely enjoyable. Recreational opportunities abound including: cycling,
golfing, hiking, snowmobiling and skiing. Winnipeg is a very multicultural
city with several festivals both during the summer and winter seasons.

Recognized as the 2010 Cultural Capital of Canada, Winnipeg has numerous
opportunities for cultural pursuits including: the Royal Winnipeg Ballet,
Winnipeg Symphony Orchestra, Manitoba Opera, Manitoba Theatre Centre, Winnipeg
Art Gallery, Manitoba Children's Museum and the Manitoba Museum. Professional
sport teams include the Winnipeg Blue Bombers (Canadian Football league), the
Winnipeg Gold Eyes (minor league baseball), and Winnipeg Jets (NHL).

Winnipeg is home to the Canadian Museum of Human Rights which is the first
museum solely dedicated to the evolution, celebration, and future of human
rights.

Winnipeg is centrally located and offers excellent air connections throughout
Canada and to the United States. Our summers are second to none and our
winters are world famous.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Applying competency-based practices to residency education**  
  
Residents entering the University of Manitoba Radiation Oncology Residency
program in July 2019 and beyond will experience competency-based training.  
  
To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/portal/page/portal/rc/resources/cbme/resources/videos_webinars),
aims to enhance patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong
learning with evolving patient needs and empowering learners to more fully
engage in their education process.  
  
CBD will use time as a framework rather than the basis for progression. It is
not anticipated that the duration of training will change for the majority of
trainees. Residency programs will be broken down into
[stages](http://www.royalcollege.ca/portal/page/portal/rc/common/documents/resources/cbd_competence_continuum_diagram_legal_e.pdf),
and each stage will have a series of milestones based on required
competencies. These milestones will create more targeted learning outcomes and
involve more frequent, formative assessments within the clinical workplace to
ensure residents are developing and receiving feedback on the skills they
need.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and
traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification. Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs
will include the completion of a Royal College examination; however, residents
in CBD programs will also be assessed against program milestones throughout
their training. Within a CBD program, all milestones and the Royal College
examination must be successfully completed to achieve certification.  
  
For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

 **Research**

The residents are strongly encouraged to participate in clinical and/or basic
research during their training. It is expected that at least two research
projects and one publication will be completed during their training. It is
also expected that residents will gain experience by presenting their work
both at the annual Cancer Care Manitoba Resident's Research Day and at
national or international conferences. Opportunities for research exist within
the Department of Radiation Oncology, Department of Medical Physics as well as
through the Manitoba Institute of Cell Biology and through the National
Research Council Institute for Bio diagnostics. Other opportunities exist
through the Health Sciences Centre or St. Boniface General Hospital Research
Centres.

**Teaching**

**  
** There is a well-established didactic teaching program. Residents have
protected time every Wednesday afternoon for lectures in treatment planning,
Medical Physics, Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Radiation Biology, Pathology,
Radiology, and Clinical Radiation Oncology. There are regular Molecular
Biology didactic and interactive session with Medical Oncology and Hematology
Oncology residents.  Residents are expected to attend the monthly Journal Club
and the weekly Oncology Grand Rounds.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Training Sites**

Resources

\- Cancer Care Manitoba

\- Western Manitoba Cancer Centre (Brandon)

\- Health Sciences Centre

\- St. Boniface General Hospital

\- Victoria General Hospital

Cancer Care Manitoba (CCMB) is the provincially mandated cancer agency tasked
with providing comprehensive cancer services to the people of Manitoba and
Northwestern Ontario. The catchment population is approximately 1.3 million
people. Over 3,200 new consultations are seen in Radiation Oncology annually.

CCMB has two tertiary locations in Winnipeg. The main site, McDermott site, is
located adjacent to the Health Sciences Center (HSC) complex. The second site
is at St. Boniface General Hospital. All radiation treatments are provided at
the McDermott site in Winnipeg. In partnership with the Brandon Regional
Health Authority, the Western Manitoba Cancer Center offers residents of
Brandon and Western Manitoba access to a state-of-the-art facility that
provides Radiation Therapy as well as chemotherapy and support services. This
provides a great opportunity for a senior resident to get rural training
experience in a facility two hours away from Winnipeg.

The Department of Radiation Oncology at CCMB consists of 18 radiation
oncologists. There are presently 8 residents in the Residency Program. There
are eight linear accelerators, one orthovoltage unit, one conventional
simulator, and two CT simulators. The department is well-equipped to deliver
conformal radiotherapy, RapidArc intensity modulated radiotherapy, sterotactic
body radiotherapy and both low and high dose rate brachytherapy. Gamma Knife
SRS is delivered in partnership with Neurosurgery in HSC. The department also
has access to a dedicated PET/CT scanner at HSC. Radiation Oncology has a six-
bed inpatient unit at the Rehab Hospital.

HSC is an 800 bed facility that includes an adult centre, Children's Hospital,
Women's Centre, Rehabilitation, and Psych Health Centre. The University of
Manitoba Medical Campus is adjacent to the Health Sciences Centre providing
basic medical science, research, clinical, and administrative support for the
Faculties of Medicine, Dentistry, and Pharmacy.



The Residency Program in Radiation Oncology at Cancer Care Manitoba /
University of Manitoba is fully accredited by the Royal College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Canada. Over 4 residents and 2 fellows participate in
accredited training programs including: Radiation Oncology, Medical Oncology,
Hematology, Pediatric Oncology and Gynecology Oncology. Cancer Care Manitoba
has an active Medical Physics Department including an accredited Graduate and
Medical Physics Resident Training Program. Other clinical resources include an
Epidemiology and Cancer Registry Department, and a Clinical Investigations
Office. Cancer Care Manitoba actively participates in cooperative clinical
trials including RTOG, NCIC, COG, and NSABP.



* * *

# Additional Information

**About  Manitoba**

Manitoba boasts a mix of landscapes, in-depth history, diverse communities and
four distinct seasons. Add those altogether and Canada’s central province
promises a range of exciting experiences, activities, and things to do.

Why move to Manitoba?

  * [Outdoor adventures](https://www.travelmanitoba.com/things-to-do/outdoor/) – think world-class fishing, snowmobiling, wildlife viewing and so much more.
  * [Arts, culture and history](https://www.travelmanitoba.com/things-to-do/arts-culture/) – stories of Manitoba’s past and our creativity come to life.
  * [Shopping](https://www.travelmanitoba.com/things-to-do/shopping/), [gaming](https://www.travelmanitoba.com/things-to-do/gaming/) and [sports](https://www.travelmanitoba.com/things-to-do/sports/) – top reasons to make Winnipeg your next destination.
  * [Itineraries](https://www.travelmanitoba.com/things-to-do/itineraries/) – get inspired with these amazing road trips and start exploring.
  * And so much more – discover why Manitoba is where Canada’s heart…beats!



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26676?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26676