#  University of Alberta - Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery - Edmonton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Trina Rosaasen  

Address Department of Surgery  
2D2.01 Walter Mackenzie Health Sciences Centre  
8440-112 Street  
Edmonton, Alberta, T6G 2B7  

Work  (780) 407-7556

Work

Websites of Interest [ University of Alberta - OHNS Residency Program
](https://www.ualberta.ca/surgery/divisions/otolaryngology-head-and-neck-
surgery/residency-program)  
[ University of Alberta - Department of Surgery
](https://www.ualberta.ca/en/surgery/index.html)  
[ U of A Surgical Programs
](https://sites.google.com/a/ualberta.ca/surgcarms/home)  
[ University of Alberta, Division of Surgical Research
](https://www.ualberta.ca/en/surgery/divisions/surgical-research/index.html)  
[ SMRI ](https://www.ualberta.ca/en/medicine/news/2016/november/from-missiles-
to-milestones-in-medical-research.html)  
[ IRSM ](https://www.covenanthealth.ca/innovations/the-institute-for-
reconstructive-sciences-in-medicine)  
[ Women and Children's Health Research Institute ](https://www.wchri.org/)  
[ NACTRC ](https://nactrc.ca/)  
[ Accredited Surgical Simulation Program
](https://www.ualberta.ca/surgery/research/dsssp/index.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Sharon Dopulos

Title: Program Administrator

Email: ohnspg@ualberta.ca

Phone: 780 407-7556

  

* * *

# Important Information

CASPER Requirement:

All applicants to the Otolaryngology - Head & Neck Surgery residency program
at the University of Alberta are required to complete the CASPER (Computer-
Based Assessment for Sampling Personal Characteristics) test, to assist with
our selection process. Successful completion of CASPER is mandatory in order
to maintain admission eligibility. CASPER is an open-response, situational
judgment test that evaluates aspects of applicants’ social intelligence and
professionalism such as ethics, empathy, problem-solving and collaboration.
For more information on the test, go to[
https://takealtus.com/casper/.](https://takealtus.com/casper/) Casper scores
are only valid for a single admissions cycle and for the test type for which
you have taken the test. For example, if an applicant took the Canadian Post
Graduate Medical Education test for the CaRMS Round 1 match, the same Casper
score will be considered for the Round 2 match.

Your CASPER assessment result is sent directly to our program/CaRMS from
Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights permission to
share your results with CaRMS.

###  

* * *

# Return of Service

There are no return of service requirements at the University of Alberta.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Please see the Alberta [provincial
criteria.](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/)

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) are required to provide proof of
English language proficiency as determined by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) who completed their medical education in
Quebec or at the University of Ottawa (French Stream) are required to provide
proof of English language proficiency as determined by the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

CMGs who completed their medical education at the University of Ottawa must
indicate on their application which stream they completed (either French or
English).

_For more information on the CPSA English language requirements, please visit
the  [CPSA website](https://cpsa.ca/physicians/registration/english-language-
proficiency/)._

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

A Minimum of three letters of reference are required.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter expressing the candidate's goals and research interests as
well as indicating why the candidate has chosen Otolaryngology - Head and Neck
Surgery as a career choice.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Our program consistently considers our greatest strength to be the individual
talents of our faculty and residents. To that end, we are looking for
academically strong candidates who have done very well in their medical
training, have a solid and demonstrated interest in research and who have the
ability to work well with a team of talented healthcare professionals.



* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 31, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: The evening prior to the interviews we will
hold an on-line social to give candidates the chance to meet with residents
and staff in a less formal setting.  The social is not a mandatory part of the
interview process however it will provide you with an opportunity to meet with
our program director, residents and some faculty in a more relaxing and fun
setting.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process:  Each candidate will be interviewed
by interview teams made up of Teaching Faculty, Residents and Allied
Healthcare Professionals in the Edmonton Zone  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Our program considers our greatest strength to be the individual talents of
our faculty and residents. To that end, we are looking for academically strong
candidates who have done very well in their medical training, have a solid and
demonstrated interest in research and who have the ability to work well with a
team of talented healthcare professionals.

## Program goals

The overall and ultimate mission of the five-year Otolaryngology Residency
Program - located in the Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine at the
University of Alberta - is to produce graduates who have all of the skills and
competencies necessary to function professionally as a consultant in General
Otolaryngology as well as the ability to transition seamlessly into post-
graduate fellowship training.



## Selection process goals

Successful applicants to the Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Program have:

  * A strong work ethic and an interest and commitment to the field of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery
  * The ability to work well within a team environment as well as assume leadership roles
  * Has strong interpersonal skills and communication skills
  * The ability to organize the various demands of residency and work well under pressure
  * Possess strong visuo-spatial skills and fine motor skills

Share our passion and commitment for:

  * Striving to provide patient and family centered services
  * Continuous learning and teaching others 
  * Research & innovation
  * Working in a collegial and supportive environment

## File review process

Review team composition : Our file review teams include the Program Director,
Assistant Program Director, Divisional Director, Teaching Faculty, Residents
and members of the Allied Healthcare Teams.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
During the file review, we assess each aspect of the candidate's application
which includes coursework, research projects, their extra curricular
activities, the CASPER assessment and reference letters.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  
While this varies depending upon the number of candidates who apply, the
program has generally offered interviews to about 50 to 60 percent of the
applicants who apply.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Yes, your CV will be reviewed   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Electives will be considered   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  A CASPER assessment score will be required.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  It is important to have activities outside your medical education. Please share any activities in which you previously or currently participate.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Yes, demonstrated leadership skills will be reviewed; include any activities in which you organized, led or promoted an organization   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Yes, these will be reviewed.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Personal letters are required and reviewed. Please include why you are interested in Otolaryngology and our program at the University of Alberta   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Yes, reference documents will be reviewed. Please supply at least three letters of reference.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Yes, research and publications of interest and reviewed. Please note any publications or pending publications as well as any specific areas of interest   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Yes, your transcripts will be reviewed.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

During the last academic year students have completed electives with our
program.  However, we also realize that some students may have not been able
to secure an elective due to the limited time available.  While we will
consider electives, it will be only one of a list of criteria.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We will be looking for examples of collaboration.   
Collegiality |  We will be looking for examples of collegiality.   
Communication skills |  We will be looking for examples of communication skills.   
Health advocacy |  We will be looking for examples of health advocacy.   
Interest in the discipline |  We will be looking for examples of interest in Otolaryngology. Please let us know why you are interested in our specialty   
Interest in the program |  We will be looking for examples of interest in our program. Why do you think you would fit in with the program at the University of Alberta.   
Leadership skills |  We will be looking for examples of leadership skills; please share experiences where you assumed a leadership role in a professional, social or recreational organization.   
Professionalism |  We will be looking for examples of professionalism.   
Scholarly activities |  We will be looking for examples of scholarship.   
Other interview component(s) |  Our interview process this year   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Our well developed residency program has graduated many residents who have
gone on to develop and serve other educational programs throughout Canada, the
United States and around the world.  Our catchment area is extensive as we
service Northern Alberta, Northern BC, North Saskatchewan, the North Western
Territories and the Yukon.  This provides our residents with unique learning
opportunities both in volume as well as working with many diverse populations.  

The hallmark of our program is a commitment to evidence-based education and
practice. We have a diverse faculty, whose training and educational background
includes residency and fellowship programs throughout North America, the
United Kingdom, Europe and Australia.   The interest that we take in
developing the careers of our trainees is best exemplified by a unique, multi-
level Mentorship program as well as an academic advisor. Our training utilizes
the most current equipment and technology including image guidance surgery,
robotic surgery and endoscopic surgeries.

We are looking for promising scholars who have an excellent academic
background and a demonstrated interest in our specialty. Ideally, we are
looking for candidates who share our passion and commitment to provide service
that is patient and family centered and who are interested in the continuous
learning  and teaching of others.  The program provides ample opportunity to
engage in research and innovation and we are interested in candidates who are
also interested in contributing to these areas.

Historically, our residents have done exceptionally well on the Royal College
Exams and the expectation is that, by the end of program, our residents are
fully qualified for independent practice or for access to many of the sought
after fellowships throughout the discipline.



Other highlights:

  * The program offers a well established educational curriculum consisting of academic half day, weekly divisional rounds and journal club.
  * Residents participate in academic half days covering a wide range of topics in pathology, otology, pediatrics, audiology, rhinology, head and neck surgery and anatomy
  * Residents participate in a unique, multi-level mentorship program which includes a designated mentor in the first year and a resident selected mentor in years two through five.
  * Funding is available for residents to attend instructional courses such as a Sinus Course, a Temporal Bone Course, a Facial Plastics Course and a  Review Course.  The division also supports residents attending conferences to present approved research.
  * There are extensive opportunities to teach medical students.
  * Our residents have excellent exposure to research and all residents participate in research projects beginning in their PGY-2 year. We have a strong research culture and track record with a dedicated Research Director who assists residents in coordinating their research projects.
  * The ratio of residents to faculty is 13:23

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery Program at the University of Alberta
is a five year program which is fully accredited by the Royal College.  The
program offers a well established educational program consisting of weekly
academic half day, teaching rounds, divisional rounds and journal clubs.

**PGY-1**

All of the OHNS PGY-1 residents are part of the one year Surgical Foundations
Program which includes residents from all surgical specialties and Obstetrics
and Gynecology at the University of Alberta. In July 2017, all OHNS residents
started the new Royal College Competence by Design initiative. As of July
2018, the Surgical Foundations Program went live with CBD for all of its
rotations. Entrustable Professional Activities (EPA's) and Milestones will be
used for assessment for all new residents.

The PGY 1 curriculum includes rotations in

  * Head and Neck Surgery
  * Pediatric Otolaryngology
  * General Surgery
  * CCU
  * Anesthesiology
  * Internal Medicine
  * Emergency Medicine
  * Neurosurgery
  * Vacation block of 4 weeks

**PGY-2**  
The PGY-2 year is a combination of on-service and off service rotations which
include:

  * Sub Specialty training in Otolaryngology rotations
  * Plastic Surgery
  * ICU
  * OMFS and Radiology and other specialty training related to the field of Otolaryngology

**PGY-3 to PGY-5**  
The PGY-3 through PGY-5 years consists of Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery
rotations in the various subspecialties of the Program.  The training takes
place at various sites through Northern Alberta including the University of
Alberta Hospital, The Royal Alexandra Hospital, the Grey Nuns Community
Hospital as well as other sites/clinics throughout the area. Rotations include
training in the areas of:

  * Head and Neck Surgery
  * Rhinology
  * Laryngology
  * Otology
  * Facial Plastics
  * General Otolaryngology

In the PGY-4 Year residents are able to take up to 8 weeks of elective time
and have four weeks of an ambulatory block

In the PGY-5 Year residents have an 8 week ambulatory care rotation prior to
the Royal College exam

**Research**  

All Residents participate in research projects beginning in the PGY-2 year
however residents wishing to begin their projects earlier than their second
year may do so. The projects are coordinated by the Research Director. The
intention is to have these papers presented at local, national, and
international meetings as well as Resident Research Days within the Department
of Surgery and the Division of Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery.

The residency program has a strong culture and track record of research and
evidence-based education and practices and works in partnerships with a number
of research institutes based in Edmonton/Alberta.

The program holds annual evaluations of research productivity based on clear
criteria. The Division hosts an annual research day for all faculty, residents
and allied healthcare professionals in the Edmonton Zone;  residents and
students present their research and a number of research awards are presented
each year.  

**Academic Activities**

Additional Academic supports and programs are being developed on an ongoing
basis and changes as new opportunities become available.  At present this
includes:

  * Weekly academic half days which cover a one year curriculum; these generally will take place on Monday afternoons and are considered protected time for all residents in the PGY 2 to PGY 4 year.  PGY 1 residents will participate in the Surgical Foundation Academic Half Day and will also participate in the program's academic half day when on OHNS service.

  * The Department of Surgery presents monthly Grand Rounds and the Division of Otolaryngology hosts weekly Grand Rounds.

  * The Division hosts monthly Journal Club meetings

  * Residents participate in exam preparation with written exams and practice oral exams. Written exams include end of block exams, LITE  (Local In Training Exams) and NITE (National In Training Exam)

  * The Division provides financial support for a number of approved courses throughout residency; these take place in the PGY 2 - 4 years

  * The Division provides financial support to residents who are presenting approved research at various conferences in Canada and the United States.

* * *

# Training Sites

  * University of Alberta Hospital 8440 112 St NW, Edmonton, AB T6G 2B7
  * Stollery Children's Hospital, (inside the UofA Hospital) 8440 112 St NW, Edmonton, AB T6G 2B7
  * Royal Alexandra Hospital, 10240 Kingsway NW, Edmonton, AB T5H 3V9
  * Grey Nuns Community Hospital, 1100 Youville Dr W Northwest, Edmonton, AB T6L 5X8
  * Misericordia Community Hospital, 16940 87 Ave NW, Edmonton, AB T5R 4H5
  * Glenrose Rehabilitation Hospital, 10230 111 Ave NW, Edmonton, AB T5G 0B7
  * The Leduc Community Hospital, 4210 48 St, Leduc, AB T9E 5Z3

* * *

# Additional Information

#### CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)

The University of Alberta recognizes the importance of diversity, equity,
inclusivity, decolonization, and indigenization (EDIDI) and is committed to
the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry’s policy on anti-racism.

Further, the University is committed to implementing the Truth and
Reconciliation Commission calls to action that are relevant to education and
medicine.The pursuit of diversity and equitable opportunities is a core value
that guides our selection practices.

The University encourages applications from underrepresented groups, including
Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women,
persons of a minority gender identity or sexual orientation, and individuals
who would contribute to the diversity of the medical community. The CaRMS
Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) is an optional form that candidates
can fill out.

Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism in residency
selection, but is currently not using the CSIQ as part of our application
process. We are using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable
opportunities for all applicants.

#### **Other Important Facts:**

Edmonton is home to strong research institutes which offer great research
opportunities; these include The Surgical Medical Research Institute, the
Northern Alberta Clinical Trials and Research Center and the Women & Children
Health Research Institute.

The program has well established fellowship programs in Head and Neck
Oncology, Rhinology and Pediatrics that afford opportunities for further
training and forging international relations with Fellows.

The program and division have several well established multidisciplinary
programs which include: Head and Neck Oncology, Pediatric Aerodigestive and
Aspiration, Adult Dysphagia and Pediatric Tracheal reconstruction.

#### Work and Play in a Great City:

In addition to the benefits already noted, the City of Edmonton is a great
city to live in with safe, neighborhood communities, short commutes and
diverse entertainment and art venues.

The City of Edmonton provides recreational centers throughout the city with
nine centers that include various activities and classes including swimming,
team activities, workout gyms and various wellness classes; the activities
offered appeal to all ages and interests.  The University of Alberta also
provides recreational and wellness related activities and residents have
access to a on site gym located in the University of Alberta Hospital

Edmonton has many outdoor recreational options with 275 km of walking and
bicycle pathways and the beautiful River Valley with many parks and golf
courses

Edmonton offers quick access to National and Provincial parks for an afternoon
break or a weekend get away.

* * *

# FAQ

#### _What Draws People to Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery?_

The types of surgery performed are very diverse from easy to complex and from
macro to micro. The specialty is also on the cutting edge of equipment and
technology such as image guidance surgery, robotic surgery and endoscopy
surgery. Additionally, OHNS is both a clinical and surgical specialty allowing
for a thriving clinical based career as well as a surgical one.

#### _**What are the varieties of lifestyles in your field? How does this
Specialty accommodate family life?**_

The options are quite diverse. As a general Otolaryngologist, there are one to
two days of ORs (mostly day surgeries), one to two days of clinic and some
administrative duties. Call is generally phone consults. Otologists,
Rhinologists and Laryngologists are generally involved with day surgery
patients while Head and Neck Oncologists are involved with lengthy procedures,
work longer hours and have patients who require more pre and post operative
care.  

Depending on how many hours you choose to work clinically, which subspecialty
you select and academic demands of teaching/research, you can tailor this
specialty to being very conducive to family life.

#### _**What is the availability of experiences in subspecialty areas during
training?**_

All subspecialties are well represented in our program and are reflected in
rotations throughout residency. Additionally, elective time is provided during
the  fourth year of residency to further pursue specific areas of interest.

#### _**How does the program support Fellowship Matching?**_

The OHNS program offers support from a very diverse faculty group and each
resident has a mentor throughout their residency.  This provides for very
comprehensive training and support during the Fellowship Matching Process.
Our staff have helped residents secure some of the most competitive
fellowships in North America.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26364?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26364