#  University of Saskatchewan - Family Medicine - Moose Jaw - Regional  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 05, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Sheila Smith  

Address Department of Family Medicine  
55 Diefenbaker Drive  
Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan, S6J 0C2  

(306) 694-8730

Websites of Interest [ Find Your Place in Moose Jaw
](https://medicine.usask.ca/familymedicine/learners/moose-jaw.php)  
[ Facebook - USask Family Med ](https://www.facebook.com/usaskfamilymed)  
[ Instagram - USask Family Med ](https://www.instagram.com/usaskfamilymed/)  
[ Department of Family Medicine
](https://medicine.usask.ca/familymedicine/about/about-us.php)  
[ City of Moose Jaw ](http://www.moosejaw.ca/)  
[ Tourism Moose Jaw ](http://www.tourismmoosejaw.ca/)  
[ FHHR New Hospital News ](http://www.fhhr.ca/MooseJawHospital.htm)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Robert Haver

Title: Moose Jaw Site Director

  

Name: Robyn Claypool

Title: Program Administrative Assistant

Email: r.claypool@usask.ca

Phone: 3066912609

  

* * *

# Important Information

## Welcome from Moose Jaw Site Director

Thank you very much for considering the Moose Jaw Family Medicine Postgraduate
Training Program at the University of Saskatchewan. We believe that the
graduates of the U of S Residency Program make some of the most competent and
confident family doctors in Canada and have the fundamental training and
skills to practice in urban, rural, remote, and/or international locations. We
look forward to welcoming you to Moose Jaw and we are excited to have you join
our Family Medicine Residency Program.

## **Welcome from the Program Director**

Welcome to the University of Saskatchewan Family Medicine Program! My name is
Sheila Smith and I will be your program director. We want to support you to do
your best work. Our program provides opportunities to practice inclusive and
equitable care to our patients and our communities. You will experience
learning environments that are strengthened by our diverse and inclusive
teams. Our program is constantly learning and innovating and we welcome you to
be part of our journey.

**Important Information for Applicants**

The Family Medicine CMG stream is open to CMGs and graduates of US allopathic
schools. Applicants are responsible for reviewing the [University of
Saskatchewan Policies for the R1 Match](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-
residency-match/eligibility-criteria/saskatchewan/) to determine if they meet
all requirements and eligibility criteria. Failure to meet or provide proof of
any of the stated requirements or documents may result in an applicant’s file
not being reviewed or ranked.

**Casper Test**  
All applicants must complete the Casper test. Please refer to the Examinations
section for more information.

**Family Medicine Professional Choices Assessment (FMProC)  
** All applicants must complete the Family Medicine Professional Choices
Assessment (FMProC). Please refer to the Examinations section for more
information.

**Licensing  
** Matched applicants must be eligible for an educational register license
with the [College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Registration___Licensure/web/Applicants/Licensure/Registration_and_Licensure_Landing.aspx?hkey=75b022f8-df64-4f34-8e2a-a09bea881787)
(CPSS) for a July 1st start date and must maintain eligibility for an
educational register license throughout their entire training program. Matched
applicants who are graduating in the spring will need to provide a copy of
their medical degree/diploma to the PGME office and the College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Saskatchewan (CPSS) prior to the start of residency training.
Any delays in providing all required documentation to CPSS may result in the
following:

  * delay in issuance of an educational register license and a delay in start of postgraduate training beyond July 1st
  * release from CaRMS match contract

**Applicants completing medical education at the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)**  are
required to submit proof of English language proficiency before the rank order
deadline to demonstrate they meet CPSS requirements. More information is
available under Supporting Documentation-Language Proficiency.

**NOTE:**  Applicants who are considering a delay to their convocation date
must be aware that a medical degree cannot be issued to a student until they
have convocated. CPSS bylaws require that new residents must have received
their medical degree prior to the commencement of residency training. Choosing
to delay convocation will affect a matched applicant’s ability to commence
their residency training program in Saskatchewan on July 1. Please refer to
the [U of S CaRMS Deferral Policy](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/carms-
deferral-of-training-start-date---match-violation-release-from-
match.php#relatedForms) for additional information.

**Credentialing**  
In order to commence and continue in Postgraduate Medical Education training
programs, matched applicants must be eligible for and maintain privileges
within the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) as determined by their
credentialing process. The Saskatchewan Health Authority requires successful
applicants to submit immunization records and a current criminal record check
as part of their pre-resident application for appointment. Applicants with
criminal records will be considered on a case by case basis by the College of
Medicine in consultation with the Health Authority.

Any delays in providing all required documentation to the Saskatchewan Health
Authority may result in a delay in the start of postgraduate training beyond
July 1st.

**Resident Boot Camp  
** All matched applicants must attend a mandatory three-day Resident Boot Camp
scheduled for late June. The purpose of the Boot Camp is to provide additional
support to trainees as they transition to residency by introducing and
consolidating baseline skills and knowledge needed to flourish during their
residency years. The program will include interactive case-based and hands-on
practice sessions. Stipends will be provided to trainees.

Attendance is required and absences are only permitted in exceptional
circumstances, with prior approval of PGME.

**Advanced Cardiac Life Support  
** Matched applicants are required to provide proof of ACLS certification
(current as of July 1, 2025) to the PGME office prior to starting their
training program. The ACLS course must be endorsed by the Heart and Stroke
Foundation of Canada and/or the American Heart Association. ACLS training that
is not certified by these two organizations and/or is completed entirely
through an online course will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for
all costs associated with obtaining ACLS certification.

**Personal Transportation**  
Applicants who match to the Family Medicine residency training program are
required to have a valid driver’s license and access to a vehicle in order to
drive to mandatory rural and remote educational experiences. Residents are
also expected to be able to travel within communities for educational
experiences. Applicants should be aware that not all training sites have
access to public transportation and residents are required to provide their
own transportation. Residents receive mileage reimbursement as per PGME
guidelines.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

  

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

All applicants must be Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents at the time of
application and must submit a notarized/certified photocopy of one of the
accepted citizenship documents.

Proof of citizenship must be current at the time of application and expired
documents will not be accepted.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum of 7.0 in each of the components

**Language assessment document accepted:**

  1. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on paper at a test venue
  2. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on a computer at a test venue
  3. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine at Home

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum grade of B

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of 9 in all sections

Applicants may be required to provide proof of proficiency in the English
language to meet licensing requirements of the [College of Physicians and
Surgeons (CPSS) of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Licensure/Requirements_Content/English_Language_Proficiency.aspx).

Applicants who graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States,
where English is the language of instruction **are not**  required to submit
proof of English language proficiency.

**Canadian applicants with medical education from the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)  are required
**to meet the English language proficiency requirements of the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan and must complete one of the language
exams listed above.

Applicants who are required to complete a language exam must submit a valid
test score in their CaRMS application **by the deadline for submission and
assignment of applications and documents.** Applicants who do not provide
acceptable proof of language proficiency, if required, will not be ranked.

Applicants must meet all of the criteria in one of the IELTS, OET or CELPIP
examinations. Please note that results from examinations cannot be combined,
unless the testing institution offers a sub-test.  
NOTE: Only OET offers sub-tests. CPSS will accept sub-tests obtained within
the same 24-month period as the original OET exam was sat.

Please direct any questions about language requirements to
[della.toews@usask.ca](mailto:della.toews@usask.ca). Applicants should not
contact CPSS directly about their eligibility for licensure.

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Family Medicine programs have adopted the Canadian Family Medicine Structured
Reference Form (SRF). All FM programs requesting a reference will require the
form. Traditional narrative letters will NOT be accepted. Should your referee
submit a traditional letter it will not be reviewed and your application may
be deemed incomplete.  New references are mandatory with each admissions
cycle.

Three (3) reference letters using the Canadian Family Medicine Structured
Reference Form are required. Please submit the same reference letters to each
site you apply to. Applicants should familiarize themselves with [how to
request](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408366069133-How-do-I-
request-a-Family-Medicine-Structured-Reference-Letter-) a Family Medicine
Structured Reference Letter on the CaRMS website. Applicants can direct their
referees to the [example](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/sample-FM-structured-
reference-letter-CMG.pdf) of the reference letter on the CaRMS website.
Letters by Primary Care Providers are strongly recommended.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter describing yourself and your career interest is required.
Please address the personal letter to the overall program "Dr. Sheila Smith
and Selection Committee" and NOT to each site. Submit the same personal letter
to each site you are applying to.

As Family Physicians, we are interested in learning about you in the same way
we are interested in learning about the context of our patients.  Your letter
must include your motivations for applying to Family Medicine and selecting
the University of Saskatchewan for training. Please also reflect on qualities
that are critical to being a Family Physician, service to rural, remote and
underserved populations and strengths that you will contribute to our program.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Matched applicants who are graduating in the spring will need to provide a
copy of their medical degree/diploma to the PGME office and
[CPSS](https://www.cps.sk.ca/) prior to the start of residency training.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025
  * January 25, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interview dates:  
  

  * January 22, 23, 24, 25, 2025

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Details regarding interview date and
time will be forwarded upon notification of the applicant. One interview will
be offered for all sites on a first come first serve basis. Our interview team
consists of program and site leadership, designated faculty and residents and
program administrators. Applicants rotate through four 15-20 minute interviews
conducted by faculty and resident interviewers. Interviewers may be from
various sites. Applicants must attend all interview stations to be considered.  
  
CaRMS has mandated that only virtual interviews can be offered for the 2025
match; in person interviews cannot be considered for any applicants. Virtual
interviews will be conducted using Zoom.  
  
During the interview period, those applicants selected for interviews will be
offered the following information sessions and wellness opportunities.  
  

  1. Site lounges - these sessions are hosted by the sites as an informal way to provide site specific information and opportunities for personal and focused interaction.
  2. Community spaces - these sessions are hosted by the University of Sasktachewan medical school clubs and are offered as safe spaces for applicants. To protect applicant confidentiality the program is not involved beyond arranging for hosts to be available and providing applicants with information to access the spaces.

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

The goal of the Department of Family Medicine and the Postgraduate Family
Medicine Residency Program at the University of Saskatchewan is to produce
caring and compassionate Family Physicians who are ready to provide
comprehensive care to all patients in Saskatchewan, especially those serving
rural, remote and underserved populations.

Our mission is to create, teach and develop the knowledge, skills and
attitudes specific to the discipline of Family Medicine.

  * We will work to optimize health by demonstrating excellence and innovation in service, education and scholarly activity.
  * We will provide university, hospital and community-based education consistent with the principles of Family Medicine.
  * We will focus our efforts on working with communities in response to their health needs.

## Selection process goals

Identify applicants who have shown an interest in and commitment to generalist
Family Medicine.

Identify applicants who have shown an interest in and commitment to rural,
remote and underserved populations.

Identify applicants and who have clinical and life experiences that will
assist them in understanding the context of their patients, and adapt to the
communities they will train in and serve, in the future.

Identify applicants who are self-directed that seek out feedback and
opportunities to learn.

Identify applicants who work well with other residents, patients, and staff
and team members.

Identify applicants who are interested in providing care across the family
medicine professional profile as described in the practice narratives found in
the CFPC's Residency Training Profile.

Identify applicants who can demonstrate attributes highlighted in the CFPC
Skill Dimensions and CanMEDS-FM 2017/2025 roles.

Identify applicants who are eligible for licensure in the province of
Saskatchewan and have an interest in providing primary care to the patients of
Saskatchewan.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team consists of the program and site
leadership, designated faculty and program administrators.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 601 +  
Our program accepts applications from IMGs in the first round of the match.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  
Resource limitations may result in the inability to interview all qualified
candidates.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Demonstrate a high level of achievement in diverse activities and interests. Demonstrate evidence of life and work experience that indicates applicant's ability to adapt to future communities they will train and serve in.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Elective experience in Saskatchewan is encouraged, if possible, but is not significantly weighted in terms of selection criteria for interviews or positions.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  All applicants must complete a Casper exam to be eligible for consideration. The PGME Office has provided programs with guidelines on how scoring can be used for file review and ranking. The FMProC exam is also mandatory for our program. It is for information only and will not be weighted until it is validated further. IMG applicants (and graduates of US osteopathic schools) are required to pass the MCCQE1 and NAC exams.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Demonstrate evidence of varied interests outside of medicine.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Demonstrate evidence of leadership experience.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evaluated for any identified concerns regarding the applicant, as well as exceptional achievements.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstrate evidence of suitability for generalist Family Medicine and experience with rural, remote and underserved populations. Demonstrate evidence of life and work experience that indicates applicant's ability to understand the context of their patients and adapt to future communities they will train and serve in. Evaluated for style.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Demonstrate evidence of suitability for generalist Family Medicine and experience with rural, remote and underserved populations.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Demonstrate evidence of Family Medicine scholarly work experience.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evaluated for indications of difficulty with the academic requirements for a medical degree.   
Other file component(s) |  Candidates are assessed for their willingness to practice in Saskatchewan, as well as their ties to the province.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  Applicants rotate through four 15-20 minute interviews conducted by
faculty and resident interviewers. Interviewers may be from various sites.
Applicants must attend all interview stations to be considered.  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Demonstrate effective collaborative skills.   
Collegiality |  Demonstrate collegiality.   
Communication skills |  Demonstrate effective communication skills.   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrate health advocacy.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrate interest in generalist Family Medicine and/or rural Family Medicine.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrate interest in the University of Saskatchewan's Family Medicine program and experience with rural, remote and underserved populations.   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrate effective leadership skills.   
Professionalism |  Display professional behaviour.   
Scholarly activities |  Demonstrate interest in life long learning.   
Other interview component(s) |  Demonstrate understanding of cultural safety and sensitivity.   
Demonstrate clinical reasoning and effective integration of clinical
information.  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  All interactions with the program, program staff, preceptors, and
residents may be considered in the application and interview process.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  All interactions exhibited outside the interview process with our
program, program staff, preceptors, and residents may also be considered.
Final eligibility for ranking is determined by the selection committee which
has representatives from all sites. A final assessment is made as to whether
the applicant is considered a good overall fit for each site.  
  
Our program strives to be inclusive. All applicants, regardless of gender,
gender identity, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity or religious affiliation,
are encouraged to apply.  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**MOOSE JAW**

There are so many great opportunities waiting for you in Moose Jaw Family
Medicine! We started with our first cohort in 2014, and we graduated our first
residents in June 2016. Since then, many of our graduates have stayed and
chosen to live and work in Moose Jaw. Many have joined our team as preceptors,
while others are involved in teaching residents and visiting medical students.
Our program has significantly reduced turnover and improved the availability
of family physicians in Moose Jaw.

The Moose Jaw Family Medicine training program is supported by a close
relationship with the University of Saskatchewan College of Medicine,
Saskatchewan Medical Association, Department of Health Saskatchewan Health
Authority , and the Population of Saskatchewan.

Several highlights of our program are:

  1. Full-service Family Medicine (office, hospital, emergency, obstetrics, home care, and long-term care) with a longitudinal program. At the end of the program, the resident is truly trained to practice in any setting, and our graduates have gone on to practice in many different settings (including in a modified motor home in the middle of nowhere!).
  2. Moose Jaw has a young enthusiastic group of Family Medicine Preceptors, many of whom are graduates of the Moose Jaw Family Medicine program. They have a variety of interests which we consider when matching a resident with their preceptor. The resident will be placed with a team of usually 2 preceptors and will remain in those clinics for the duration of their residency. They become an integral part of the clinics. There is a lot of one-on-one learning. As well residents have the opportunity and time to do a significant amount of self-learning.
  3. Longitudinal ER call. With a few exceptions, all the resident’s call shifts are done in the Emergency Department. This provides longitudinal exposure to Emergency Medicine and provides valuable exposure to a large volume and variety of procedures and sick patients. The resident builds confidence in their management of an Emergency Medicine department. Our ER volumes are very high but often not after midnight. We do not do a lot of after midnight call except on the Obstetrics Rotation.
  4. Strong hospital physician program. The medical inpatients at the F.H. Wigmore hospital are treated by hospital physicians who are also practicing family physicians

in Moose Jaw. Residents work along these physicians in family medicine and
hospitalist rotations. There are also hospitalist rotations in Regina to
expose residents to hospitalist work in a larger center. Residents gain the
knowledge and experience necessary to work as a hospitalist physician upon
graduation. This includes having knowledge of SIBR “ Structured inpatient b?
Rounds” protocols.

  1. Moose Jaw is a regional learning center with a large volume of patients seen. The resident will be exposed to a wide variety of patient encounters with gradual increase of independence and responsibility. Moose Jaw is becoming more diverse with immigration and many international students who study at our Saskatchewan Polytechnic campus.
  2. A collegial and diverse community of physicians, including many specialists and FPs with special interests (Addictions, Geriatrics, Palliative Care, Surgical Care, Men’s Health, Women's Health, First Nations Medicine) working out of a state-of-the-art new hospital.
  3. Our residents are usually the only residents on a service and get first chance at learning opportunities. They also have ample opportunity to teach junior learners, many of whom come to Moose Jaw for rotations.
  4. There is Good work/life balance with less service component than in many larger programs.
  5. We are close to Regina and its airport for both subspecialty learning and personal opportunities. Several rotations are done in Regina. There are also several opportunities for electives.
  6. We are a small program where you form close relationships with your colleagues, preceptors, hospital/clinic staff, and community. You are valued and your voice is heard.
  7. There are Great opportunities to get very good at procedural medicine.
  8. Moose Jaw is A very safe, friendly, and welcoming community with great schools, housing, and recreational facilities. We are small enough for a small town feel and yet have many amenities of a large city. Cost of housing is very reasonable. We are close to big city shopping, entertainment, and travel without big city crime or traffic.

**Saskatchewan Health Authority - Moose Jaw Area**

The South-Central region of the Saskatchewan Health Authority provides a
comprehensive array of health services to a population of approximately 54,000
in southern

Saskatchewan, with the city of Moose Jaw providing a range of secondary
inpatient acute care services. The Dr. F.H. Wigmore Regional Hospital is a
modern progressive well equipped institution, with a 24-hour Emergency
Department and a wide range of specialist services including Obstetrics and
Gynecology, Pediatrics, General Surgery, Orthopedics, Urology, ICU, Internal
Medicine, Ophthalmology, Mental Health and Addictions Services, Radiology, and
Pathology. In addition, we are the only hospital in Saskatchewan with a
hyperbaric oxygen therapy chamber.

Our rural areas are served by hospitals in Assiniboia and Gravelbourg, and
numerous Wellness Clinics serviced by Nurse Practitioners. The region is a
satellite chemotherapy centre and has a dialysis unit in a strategic
partnership with Regina nephrologists. The Saskatchewan Health Authority is
responsible for acute care, long-term care, home care, mental health and
addictions services, public health, ambulatory services, and primary health
care. Our doctors have a strong record of imparting knowledge to others, and
in the past, residents and medical students have benefited from their
instruction while completing rotations in family medicine, internal medicine,
general surgery, and emergency.

**THE CITY OF MOOSE JAW**

Located in south-central Saskatchewan, Moose Jaw is situated on the Trans-
Canada Highway, only 77 kms (48 miles) west of Regina, the provincial capital.
Although it is well known as a tourist destination, the city serves as a hub
to the many small towns and farms in the surrounding region. It is also home
to 15 Wing Moose Jaw, Canadian Forces Base, and the world famous "Snowbirds".
In addition to the Dr. F.H. Wigmore Regional Hospital, the region offers its
programs and services through various facilities/sites which include 3 rural
community hospitals and 10 long-term care facilities.

The city of Moose Jaw is a community thriving with tourism, business,
industry, an exceptional education system, a variety of social and cultural
facilities and many recreational opportunities. It has all the medical,
commercial, and recreational services expected of any Canadian city while
retaining the safety, friendliness and simplicity of life found in a small
town.

To see more about our program and Moose Jaw, please check out the video at
this link: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=loxOhj2lEpI>  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

## **Moose Jaw  Curriculum**

**(Subject to change as required)**

**R1 Rotations/longitudinal:  ****  
** Orientation - 1 week  
Family Medicine - 20 weeks longitudinal half days in clinic and 12 weeks full
days when alternating with Obs, Internal Med and Hospitalist  
Electives - 4 weeks

Obstetrics - 8 weeks full days  
Internal Medicine - 2 weeks full days  
Hospitalist - 2 weeks in Regina full days + 2 weeks in Moose Jaw full days  
Pediatrics - 8 weeks longitudinal half days  
Psychiatry - 4 weeks longitudinal half days  
Surgery - 8 weeks longitudinal half days

Emergency - 1 day per month in R1 plus call shifts evenings and weekends

Resident Retreat - 1 week



**R2 Rotations/longitudinal:  **

Electives - 8 weeks  
Obstetrics - 2 weeks in Regina  
Palliative - 2 weeks in Regina  
Pediatrics - 2 weeks in Regina  
Exams - 1 week  
Family - 28 weeks  
Rural Family Medicine - 8 weeks

Resident Retreat - 1 week

Emergency regular call throughout year evenings and weekends

**Experiences:  
** Behavioural skills training  
Evidence-based medicine training  
Academic half-day program  
Potential experiences with Refugee Health, Home Care, Long-Term Care, Wakamow
Detox Centre, Physiotherapy, Diagnostic Imaging, Hospitalist.

**Elective time:  
** 4 weeks in FMR1  
8 weeks in FMR2

## **Unique features of Moose Jaw site:  **

Our program is housed between the following clinics:

**Hillcrest Health Clinic** \- a 7 Family Physician/3 Specialist
Multidisciplinary Clinic. The clinic has existed for over 35 years and has
recently moved into a new building. The group provides all services needed in
Family Medicine including intrapartum obstetrics. The clinic physicians
combined see over 400 deliveries per year. Hillcrest Health has 2
Psychiatrists onsite as well as x-ray and ultrasound facilities. There is a
large Rehabilitation and Physiotherapy clinic in the building, as well as Skin
Care and Massage Therapy. Hillcrest uses the Optimed-Accuro EMR system.

**South Hill Medical Clinic** \- a full-service Family Medicine Practice which
services patients from all surrounding communities with its walk-in service on
evenings and weekends. The clinic was specifically built around patient flow
and uses LEAN principles in a modern facility and utilizes EMR, using the
Optimed-Accuro program. The clinic has been operational since 1989 and serves
a population of over 20,000 active patients. It operates in a 10,000 square
foot building. The clinic is open 9:00am-5:00pm Monday to Friday, with
extended hours 3 days a week and on Saturdays. X-ray and lab services are on
site.

**Medella Clinic** \- a newly built facility with 3 family physicians working
in a full scope clinic with the exception of obstetrical care past 28 weeks.
It is a fee for service clinic using the Optimed-Accuro program.

**Circle Medical Centre** \- a new clinic opened by former Moose Jaw FM
residents; an emphasis on Maternity/Prenatal care, Women's Health, Indigenous
and LGBTQ2 medicine, as well as Pain Management and Care of Seniors.

**Rural or Urban, time spent in the other environment:  
** Rural experience x 8 weeks (choices of sites include Ile a la Crosse, La
Ronge, Meadow Lake, Melfort, Moosomin, Nipawin, Rosthern, Weyburn, Yorkton)
Rural opportunity can also be done during elective time.

**Number of Residents**

Total Number of Family Medicine Residents on site: 10

2025 Quota: 4 CMG, 1 Competitive

**Additional Learners on Site**

**Number of Royal College learners on site:  
** None based in Moose Jaw. Some visit the Dr. F.H. Wigmore Regional Hospital
on electives or rotations throughout the year. Numbers vary, but usually only
a maximum of 10.

**Number of undergraduate learners on site:  
** Undergraduate learners in Family Medicine usually number 30-40 per year on
3rd year core rotations and 4th year electives. Since 2020, Moose Jaw has
become a popular site for additional electives in hospital specialties and we
may see up to 30 of these placements in addition to the usual FM placements.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Site name:  
** Moose Jaw Family Medicine Residency Program

**Training sites:  
** Moose Jaw Dr. F.H. Wigmore hospital, 4 clinics and Regina hospitals

**Size of community and catchment area:  
** Community of Moose Jaw: population 34,000  
Moose Jaw and surrounding area: Population approx: 54,000  
Regina: population 220,000

* * *

# Additional Information

## **Moose Jaw:**

  1. Longitudinal program that has consistent full-service family medicine through your residency. 
  2. Close one-on-one learning with engaged preceptors. You become an integral part of the clinic you are learning in.
  3. You will work with many specialists and FPs with special interests working in our state-of-the-art hospital.
  4. Regular call in Emergency, providing you with Emergency training and building of confidence.
  5. A strong work/life balance.
  6. Matching you with a preceptor tailored to your areas of interest.
  7. A small-town feel with the amenities of a city, and if you desire amore metropolitan experience, Regina is only a 45-minute drive on a divided highway.

**Connect with us on social media!**  
Facebook: [@usaskfamilymed](https://www.facebook.com/usaskfamilymed)  
Instagram: [@usaskfamilymed](https://www.instagram.com/usaskfamilymed/)

* * *

# FAQ

### **What types of training sites are offered through the University of
Saskatchewan?**

The University of Saskatchewan’s Department of Family Medicine is distributed
into 8 unique sites throughout the province. These postgraduate training sites
are designated as Urban, Regional, Rural or Northern.

  * **Urban** : A community with at least one Provincial Hospital (Regina and Saskatoon)
  * **Regional** : A community with health services that include a regional hospital
  * **Rural** : A community with health services that include a community or district hospital or other facility (Integrated Health Facility, Collaborative Emergency Centre).
  * **Northern** : A community situated in the Northern Saskatchewan Administrative District

Prospective residents are encouraged to attend virtual information sessions to
learn more about the various programs offered at each unique site:

  * La Ronge - Rural/Northern
  * Moose Jaw – Regional
  * North West – Regional/Rural
  * Prince Albert - Regional/Rural
  * Regina – Urban
  * Saskatoon - Urban
  * South East – Rural
  * Swift Current – Regional



### **What application streams are available through the University of
Saskatchewan?**

All sites have two streams (CMG and competitive) except La Ronge (competitive
only). Canadian and US allopathic medical school graduates are encouraged to
apply to both streams. IMGs including graduates from US osteopathic schools
may apply to the competitive stream of each site.



### What is the ratio of CMGs to IMGs matched to the University of
Saskatchewan Family Medicine Program?

Over the past 3 years, the ratio of CMGs to IMGs matched to the University of
Saskatchewan’s Family Medicine Program has been nearly equal. IMGs have
consistently made up close to 50% of the matched residents in the program.
This balanced representation ensures a diverse and inclusive training
environment where IMGs can find peer support and camaraderie throughout their
residency experience.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26708?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26708