#  University of Toronto - Medical Genetics and Genomics - Toronto

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Graeme Nimmo  

Address Division of Clinical and Metabolic Genetics  
Hospital for Sick Children  
555 University Avenue  
Toronto ON , Ontario, M5G 1X8  

(416) 813-6374

(416) 813-5340

Websites of Interest [ Clinical and Metabolic Genetics
](https://www.sickkids.ca/en/care-services/clinical-departments/clinical-
metabolic-genetics/#education)  
[ PGME at U of T ](http://pg.postmd.utoronto.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Brittany Marshman

Title: Education Coordinator

Email: brittany.marshman@sickkids.ca

Phone: (416) 813-5340

  

Name: Graeme Nimmo

Title: Program Director

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion**  
All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of the
University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

  
**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)  
** The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.  
  
_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

* * *

# Return of Service

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

 Please note that we will be holding an optional virtual meet and greet
between candidates and current trainees, further details will be shared with
interview invites.

For further information about our program feel free to reach out to our PA -
Brittany Marshman, brittany.marshman@sickkids.ca

In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Language assessment document accepted:  **TOEFL-iBT

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:**  7 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Occupational English Test (OET)
-Medicine

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum score of 9 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Letter of language proficiency*

*Alternatively, candidates can submit a printout from the [World Directory of Medical Schools](http://www.wdoms.org/) which clearly states that the language of instruction is English or French.

The **IELTS Indicator**  will be accepted as a substitute for the Academic
Version of the IELTS.

The **TOEFL iBT Home Edition**  will be accepted as a substitute for the TOEFL
iBT.

Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site. Please
review specific program descriptions for more information.

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

  * **Date/milestone assessment submission required:**  File review opening
  * **Requirement:  **Mandatory

For more information on the MCCQE Part 1 click on the following link
<https://www.mcc.ca/examinations/mccqe-part-i/>

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

  * **Date/milestone assessment submission required:  **File review opening
  * **Requirement:  **Mandatory with exceptions*

* MCCQE part II can be used to apply instead of the NAC

For more information on the NAC OSCE click on the following link [National Assessment Collaboration | Medical Council of Canada](http://mcc.ca/examinations/nac-overview/)

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

*Please note a reference that knows you well is preferred over a reference from a geneticist who has only supervised you for a couple of patients.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

A personal letter is required. It should not be longer than 1000 words. This
letter should outline what aspects of a career in clinical genetics are
appealing to the candidate, what specific characteristics make the candidate
particularly suitable to a career in medical genetics and what skills they
have gained from their previous personal, educational, research, or work
experience that strengthen their application to a genetics program.  
  
_Important Note: Please address any gaps in training or remediation periods in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count._

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 16, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 30, 2025
  * February 6, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews for the Internalional Medical
Graduate Stream will be held virtually on January 23rd, 30th, February 6th.
Should we require an additional date to we may ask IMG trainees to interview
on January 16th. When possible, we will accomodate trainees interview
schedules in other centres.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Formal interviews will be granted to
candidates short listed after review of completed application forms by members
of the Residency Training Committee with a standardized rubric. Candidates
will be contacted by email. The candidate will be interviewed in one or more
groups which will include the program director, division chief, multiple MD
faculty members, genetic counsellor(s), the senior resident as well as the
junior representative on the Residency Training Committee. There will be
questions regarding interests and career goals, general clinical scenarios
that require problem solving and ample opportunity to ask the program
questions. The interview will occupy a half day and will also provide an
opportunity to attend genetics grand rounds as well as our weekly virtual case
conference where genetic cases are discussed.  The candidate will also have
the opportunity to meet informally with the current residents.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Our program seeks curious and compassionate trainees who will provide ethical
and patient-focused genetic care and have the potential to demonstrate
leadership in the field of genetics and genomics.

This is a 5 year residency program housed out of the Hospital for Sick
Children. Trainees will complete rotations at all TAHSN sites allowing a for
unique training experience in some of the most highly regarded specialty
genetic clinics in North America. We are the largest genetics training program
in Canada which allows our program to provide additional training
opportunities and supports like career days, balint groups, QI and research
training.



## Program goals

The practice of Medical Genetics is based on a broad knowledge and application
of basic genetic principles, and diagnosis and management of genetic disease
through the lifespan. The practice also requires a clear understanding of the
principles of genetic counselling and utilization of cutting edge genomic
technologies for the diagnosis of genetic disease.

At the completion of training, the resident will have acquired the following
competencies and will function effectively to:

  * Perform a consultation, including the presentation of well-documented assessments and recommendations in written and/or verbal form in response to a request from another health care professional

  * Demonstrate use of all CanMEDS competencies relevant to Medical Genetics
  * Identify and appropriately respond to relevant ethical issues arising in the care of patients and their families

  * Demonstrate the ability to prioritize professional duties when faced with multiple patients and problems
  * Demonstrate compassionate patient and family-centered care
  * Recognize and respond to the ethical dimensions in medical decision-making

It is understood that residents successfully completing a Medical Genetics
residency program are regarded as fully competent, undifferentiated
consultants in the specialty. The resident will be prepared to pursue further
fellowship training in a variety of sub disciplines of the specialty,
including but not inclusive to clinical biochemical genetics, prenatal
genetics, or laboratory molecular and cytogenetics fellowships.

## Selection process goals

We are looking for students to join our cohort of residents who demonstrate a
passion for the field of medical genetics and genomics, curiosity, critical
thinking skills, compassion, and advanced communication skills.  

Applicants providing evidence of professionalism, leadership, social
accountability, problem solving abilities, skills in collaboration, and
empathy within the CaRMS application file components will be prioritized for
further consideration.

Successful applicants should be given the opportunity to demonstrate these
attributes at the time of interviews. Interviews consist of a series of
questions and are ranked with a standardized rubric that priortizes ranking of
attributes noted above.

Candidates who fail to meet criteria of demonstrated interest in genetics,
professionalism or skills in communication will not be considered further.
Other candidates will be ranked based on the scores of their application and
interview. Final ranks will be determined by the aggregate score as outlined
above and the selection committee reserves the right to adjust final rankings
by consensus to address issues of program priority and diversity.

## File review process

Review team composition : All documents are reviewed by the residency
selection committee which is a subcommittee of our Residency Program Committee
(RPC). The selection committee is comprised of the Program Director, Division
chief, multiple MD clinical faculty members, genetic counsellor(s), chief
Resident(s), and other residents. All members of the selection committee
complete a conflict of interest attestation as well as an e-learning seminar
and test aimed to mitigate unconscious bias that may exist in the selection
process. There is an effort to ensure that the selection committee is
comprised of a diverse membership.  

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  leadership skills, awards, community activities, advocacy efforts, unique contributions to medicine or education   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We recognize that Genetics is a relatively small field and applicants may not have had an opportunity to rotate in Genetics or may have been exposed to Genetics later in their training. All applicants will be considered regardless of their elective choices.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We require the NAC-OSCE and MCCQE1 as a provincial requirement but we do not consider scores in the file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Leadership skills, collaboration skills, professionalism, community activities, advocacy efforts   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evaluated from other components of file   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  We do not evaluate this component   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Communication skills, Interest in Genetics, Collaboration skills, Patient advocacy   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Communication, Leadership and professional skills, Compassion/Empathy, Curiosity, Medical Expert related Competencies. Reference letter names are anonymized to the selection committee to mitigate bias.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in Genetics and Genomics or related field, scientific curiosity, leadership skills, collaboration skills   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We do not evaluate this component unless there is a failure on record   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We recognize that Genetics is a relatively small field
and applicants may not have had an opportunity to rotate in Genetics or may
have been exposed to Genetics later in their training. All applicants will be
considered regardless of their elective choices.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due
to weather, technology failure or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to collaborate with peers/colleagues and multi-disciplinary team members   
Collegiality |  Ability to interact with current trainees, administrators, interview panel   
Communication skills |  Ability to succinctly and accurately answer questions, ability to communicate complex concepts in simple terms   
Health advocacy |  Respect for patients and families, empathy, appreciation for the scope of genetic practice   
Interest in the discipline |  Basic understanding of the scope of a career in clinical genetics & genomics, clinical and scientific curiosity   
Interest in the program |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Leadership skills |  Ability to work within a multi-disciplinary team in a leadership capacity   
Professionalism |  Appropriate professionalism during interview process and self-reflective capacity   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this during the interview component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**University of Toronto Genetics and Genomics Residency Program Overview**

The University of Toronto Genetics and Genomics Program is the largest program
for Medical Genetics and Genomics training in Canada. The main training site
for the program is the world-renowned Hospital for Sick Children
(HSC/Sickkids) where there are numerous innovative collaborations in between
clinical and research team members.  Participating faculty members hold
University of Toronto appointments in the Departments of Molecular Genetics,
Paediatrics, Medicine, Biochemistry and Clinical Biochemistry. The Division of
Clinical and Metabolic Genetics at HSC also serves as a primary education
program for the Master's Program in Genetic Counselling and as such, teaching
faculty include a large group of dedicated genetic counsellors who are
committed to supporting MD trainees. In addition to our residency program we
also offer fellowship training in both Clinical Genetics and Metabolic
Genetics, both accredited by the Canadian College of Medical Geneticists
(CCMG). As such, the trainees join a diverse and engaged peer group and a
well-supported education program.

The Division of Clinical and Metabolic Genetics provides comprehensive
training in all aspects of medical genetics in the setting of a large
quarternary care institution. Our program is committed to excellence in
training individuals for careers in community genetics or in academic
clinical/research careers. The Centre for Genetic Medicine and SickKids newly
established Genome Clinic provides unparalleled opportunities to participate
in cutting-edge whole exome and whole genome sequencing projects with a
variety of expert collaborators. There are numerous faculty members involved
in clinical trials and genetic-based therapies and they provide a unique
opportunity to mentor trainees in a novel areas of genetic therapeutics; this
is likely to become an important future areas in a geneticists scope of
practice. Training sites not only include HSC but leading Canadian
institutions such as Mount Sinai Hospital, University Health Network, Princess
Margaret Hospital, amongst several other community partners within the GTA.

The Division serves primarily the Ontario central east region, a large and
diverse population of approximately 6 million residents. As such, our program
sees a wide variety of genetic problems, including those with birth defects,
inborn errors of metabolism, genetic cancer syndromes, and prenatal cases with
active inpatient and outpatient services that run year-round. We are backed by
in-house biochemical, molecular and cytogenetic laboratories that all
concurrently serve as educational fellowship sites. The program sees over 5000
patients per year. As such, there are virtually no groups of rare diseases a
trainee would not encounter during their time in the program.



**The educational environment  **

There are ample opportunities for trainees to further develop expertise in
education, ethics, and Quality Improvement (QI). In-house courses are provided
for Cytogenetics, Research methodology, and a QI-curriculum as part of a
trainees protected training. Resident research is supported by a research
committee available to trainees comprised of senior scientists with vast
experience in mentorship and residents are allowed up to 1 year for research.
The protected half-day curriculum is managed by a dedicated curriculum faculty
lead and includes content that is continuously improved with innovative and
engaging teaching approaches. A well-attended weekly case-conference
encourages active participation from trainees and other divisional members and
promotes discussions in a collaborative setting.

Trainee wellness is prioritized in our program. A Balint group is coordinated
for trainees, formal and informal wellness activities are organized several
times per year, and a resident retreat is well supported financially by our
program. We have a standing wellness agenda item during our residency program
committee meetings. Further, multiple ongoing initiatives are underway to
promote equity, diversity and inclusion in our program. This includes
divisional sessions on allyship, implicit bias, the hidden curriculum, and
ensuring the academic-half day offerings cover issues related to
discrimination such as sexism, ableism, and racism.



**The city  **

One would be remiss to describe the program in such detail without a note
about the city.
[Toronto](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ElmVUKUgVig&feature=youtu.be) is a
vibrant, diverse city with its multiple smaller and unique neighbourhoods that
make its whole. There is no shortage of
[restaurants](https://www.blogto.com/slideshows/best-restaurants-
toronto/19679) or [arts and culture](https://www.seetorontonow.com/arts-
theatre-culture/) within the city that contribute to an unforgettable training
experience. City cyclists have access to hundreds of km of dedicated bike
routes within the city and while it is not always well-advertised, [the unique
ravine system and trails](https://www.toronto.ca/explore-
enjoy/recreation/walking-hiking/trails/) within Toronto allows for a magical
downtown escape that is easily accessible by city transit. Expect travel post-
pandemic to be easy with a convenient downtown airport and travel to other
worldwide locations with direct access to a large international airport within
20 minutes of downtown.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

All RCPSC Medical Genetics and Genomics Residency Programs across Canada
follow the same basic training requirements as outlined by the Royal College.
But many of the detailed training components will differ between programs
based on the clinical training opportunities and how the program choses to
fulfill the program requirements. The outline is meant to provide a overview
of the clinical schedule of the typical trainee at the University of Toronto
Medical Genetics Program.  Note rotations and sites may be adjusted based on
availability, trainee progress, or at Program’s discretion and not necessily
in the order outlined below.

**Transition to Discipline:** As outlined by the Royal College training
requirements, the purpose of this stage is to provide an orientation to the
medical genetics and genomics residency program, including the hospital
environment, with a focus on the medical genetics’ clinic and inpatient
consultation service. In this stage, residents focus on assessing, presenting,
and documenting basic examinations; formulating a differential diagnosis; and
selecting and providing interpretation of first-line genetic investigations.

2 blocks of Orientation to Genetics – this rotation includes didactic teaching
of basic genetic concepts, mentorship meetings and clinical experiences in
clinical inpatient and outpatient genetics in both adult and paediatic
genetics. Trainees rotate at both SickKids and UHN sites.

**Foundations:** As outlined by the Royal College training requirements, the
purpose of this stage is to gain experience assessing and managing patients of
all ages with common conditions in a range of settings. During this stage,
residents perform patient assessments and create and communicate management
plans for common presentations. They develop their ability to recognize
factors that lead to variability, complexity, comorbidity, and acuity. They
gain experience consulting other health professionals, integrating
recommendations into care plans, and coordinating transitions of care.

3 blocks of General Internal Medicine – in-patient rotation at UHN sites
(Toronto General or Toronto Western Hospitals)

3 blocks of General Paediatics – in-patient rotation SickKids

2 block of High-Risk Obstetrics –at Mount Sinai Hospital with experiences at
the Fetal Medicine Unit, Maternal Disorders of Pregnancy clinics, and
Fertility clinics

1 block of Haematology/Oncology – at SickKids

1 block of Cardiology – clinics in both adult congenital cardiology and
paediatric cardiology at Mount Sinai Hospital and SickKids

1 block of Adult Neurology – at UHN sites

2 blocks of NICU – at Mount Sinai Hospital and SickKids

1 block of Developmental Pediatrics – at Holland Bloorview Hospital

2 blocks of Paediatric Neurology – at SickKids

1 block of Palliative Care– at SickKids

2 blocks of Elective Rotations -  choice of completion in a Paeds or Adult
setting

**Core:** As outlined by the Royal College training requirements, in this
stage residents build on the skills acquired in the Foundations stage as they
develop their approach to assessing and managing patients with acute and
chronic genetic presentations. Residents request and interpret reports of
advanced genetic investigations and provide pre- and post-test counselling to
patients. They lead patient care teams and communicate with patients and
families in complex situations. During this period of training trainees
complete a monthly continuity clinic and home call in paediatric and adult
clinical and metabolic genetics.  

We offer a rich number of outpatient experiences in clinical genetics at
Sickkids, UHN, and community sites; this includes general genetics clinics as
well as specialty clinics such as neurogenetics, neurodevelopmental,
cardiogenetics, bone health clinic, EDS clinic, genodermatosis, Huntington
disease, Tuberous Sclerosis, Neurofibromatosis, overgrowth, multidisciplinary
urogenital clinic (MUG), 22q11.2 deletion clinic, and involvement in other
specialty clinics such as cleft lip and palate and hearing loss. There is a
rich array of experiences in metabolic genetics; with both general clinics at
Sickkids and UHN and subspecialty clinics in PKU, Gaucher disease, Fabry
disease, and neurometabolics.  

4 blocks of Clinical Genetics Inpatient – at SickKids

4 blocks of Pediatrics Clinical Genetics Outpatient – at SickKids

1 block of Adult Genetics Clinical Genetics Outpatient – at UHN

3 blocks of Cancer Genetics – at UHN and SickKids

1 block of Clinical Genetics Outpatient – at NYGH

1 block of Community Genetics – at NYGH/Credit Valley or other site approved
by PD

3 blocks of Prenatal Genetics – at Mount Sinai Hospital

2 blocks of Metabolic Inpatient – at SickKids

2 blocks of Metabolic Outpatient – at SickKids

5 blocks of Laboratory Rotations – rotations in Cytogenetics, Molecular
Genetics and Biochemical Genetics Laboratories at SickKids

1 block of Genetic Counselling – at SickKids

1 block of Newborn Screening – at SickKids

1 block of Metabolic Dietetics – at SickKids

2 blocks of Research – at UHN or SickKids

3 blocks of Electives or Research – as approved by PD and/or research
committee and/or competence committee

**Transition to Practice:** As outlined by the Royal College training
requirements, the focus of this stage is the development and demonstration of
independence in patient care. By the end of this stage, residents
independently manage an inpatient service and outpatient practice for patients
with any known or suspected genetic condition. This stage also focuses on
implementing a plan for lifelong learning and continuing professional
development. During this period of training trainees complete a monthly
continuity clinic and senior call in paediatric, adult genetics and
metabolics.  

2 blocks Team Leader TTP – these rotations are completed in inpatient and
outpatient genetic services in both adult and paediatric settings. Trainees
are treated as junior staff; where they are expected to manage clinical
activities and results, coordinate with their clinical team, and appropriately
supervise junior trainees on service. These blocks are held at SickKids and
UHN.

5 blocks of Research/Electives – as approved by PD  

**Research**  

The University of Toronto offers a rich environment for scientific inquiry.
There are many active investigators in basic and clinical sciences, and we
encourage the involvement of residents in research projects in which they can
experience the design, conduct and evaluation of investigations into relevant
problems.

An annual presentation to the residents is scheduled as part of orientation by
the program’s faculty research coordinators. Before the start of the PGY3
year, residents will meet with one of the coordinators to explore
opportunities for research projects and set up specific goals and objectives.

We also offer excellent opportunities for residents to pursue graduate
degrees, not only in the basic and clinical sciences (MSc and PhD) but also in
clinical epidemiology and medical education. A program in health
administration is also available. Residents committing to at least a two-year
experience in a Masters or PhD program can satisfy the requirement of the
Royal College Clinician Investigator Program (CIP). Funding may be available
through the department if extra time is required to complete a degree program.



**Educational Activities  **

Five hours of strictly protected time per week make up the academic half day.
This curriculum provides a wide variety of learning opportunities addressing
all the CanMeds roles. The Half Day activities include but are not inclusive
to: case conference, walk rounds, journal club and lectures on Current Topics
in Medical Genetics as well as special rounds where a patient with a diagnosed
genetic condition is invited on site a few times a year. This 3-year theme-
based curriculum covers the fundamentals of genetics and the CanMeds
competencies as they apply to genetics. The objective of this course is to
bridge the gap between well-accepted knowledge (available in textbooks),
important updates and new developments derived from the current medical
literature. It emphasizes the areas that are important for maintaining a high
standard of clinical practice in medical genetics. The genetics division also
hosts the Masters in Genetic Counselling program, where there are several
collaborative education activities and where trainees are invited to audit the
courses that are available.  



**Seminars and Courses  **  
  
In keeping with the requirements of the Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons, the resident will complete a customized course for medical genetics
trainees in molecular and cytogenetics offered at Sickkids every 2 years. This
course is currently protected for 13 weeks outside of the academic half-day
curriculum.  Further, there is a 3-day research course protected for trainees
once during their training, with basics of research methodology and targeted
seminars provided to the genetics trainees. Lastly, trainees are protected to
attend a course in Quality Improvement run through the Centre for Quality
Improvement and Patient Safety (CQUIPS) at U of T during their senior years,
where they collaborate on a group project and present at the Annual QI day
held in the spring.

The residents are also encouraged to attend and present to at least one
national or international conferences. Residents are eligible for up to
$1500.00 of funding per academic year for conference. Other educational
opportunities include clinical case conferences, journal club, and research
seminars and rounds which amounts to approximately five hours per week.

In addition, Objective Standardized Clinical Encounters (OSCE) and practice
written examinations are held twice a year. OSCE's are multi-station exams
designed to be similar to the Royal College examination format. Residents also
participate in Telehealth for Genetic Residents and Fellows (TeleGRAF)
sessions; across Canada monthly teaching seminar series delivered via
videoconference.



  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

The vast majority of the five year Medical Genetics residency is spent at the
Hospital for Sick Children, except for rotations in Internal Medicine and
other Adult clinics (including Endocrinology, Neurology, Genetics, Cancer and
Prenatal Diagnosis) which are done at the University Health Network (Toronto
General Hospital, Toronto Western Hospital, Princess Margaret Hospital), Mount
Sinai Hospital, and St. Michaels Hospital. Rotations in Perinatology and High
Risk Obstetrics are completed at Mount Sinai Hospital.

Most of the hospitals are located within 4 blocks of the SickKids. There is
also opportunity for electives which can be done at other University of
Toronto institutions as well as hospitals abroad, which may include attending
genetics clinic part of the Northern Regional Genetics Program, which is
funded yearly for a senior trainee. Our Medical Genetics residents are also
encouraged to attend genetics conferences and workshops.

For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>

* * *

# Additional Information

**Pre-residency Orientation Programs**

All IMG candidates accepted to all residency programs will be required to
complete either the Pre-Residency Program (PRP) or the Pre-Residency Program
for Family Medicine (PRPFM) prior to entering into a residency program.
Matched IMGs will be expected to attend these programs in Toronto, several
weeks in advance of the start of their residency program. In some cases, this
may result in a delay of the start date of the residency. Additional
information on the PRP and PRP FM programs can be found at the following link:
[Touchstone Institute](http://www.touchstoneinstitute.ca/).

**Assessment Verification Period**

All IMG candidates accepted to residency training programs will be required to
undergo an Assessment Verification Period (AVP). This assessment period is
normally 12 weeks in length and is required by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Ontario to obtain an educational license to enter a residency
program. [CPSO – International Medical Graduates
(IMGs)](https://www.cpso.on.ca/Physicians/Registration/International-Medical-
Graduates).

IMGs that have failed an AVP and are reapplying through CaRMS are ineligible
to apply for training in the same specialty in Ontario but may apply to a
different specialty in the first and/or second iteration. IMGs who have
withdrawn from a program prior to completion of an AVP must declare so upon
application.

**Additional Ontario Information:**

  1. **Permanent Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education office in order to comply with current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry.
  2. **Matched applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data file to the matched university’s postgraduate education office. The postgraduate office will share the information as needed, but not limited to the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:**  The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure to meet or provide proof**  of any of the stated requirements may result in applicant file being removed at any point during the match.

As of September 2024, there are 16 residents in the Royal College Program and
6 fellows in the Canadian College of Medical Geneticist Clinical Fellowship
programs. Our Division also houses some additional specialized Genetic
Fellowships and a Master's Program in Genetic Counselling.

The library facilities at the University of Toronto and SickKids as well as
the Division has an excellent library which includes over a hundred books and
journals, access to OSSUM/POSSUM and OMIM, the London Dysmorphology Database.
Medical Genetics residents also have designated office space with computer
access and telemedicine capabilities.

* * *

# FAQ

For any program related questions please feel free to email our coordinator,
[Brittany Marshman](mailto:brittany.marshman@sickkids.ca).



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26668?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26668