#  Western University - Anesthesiology - London  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 03, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 8

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Melissa Chin  

Address Anesthesia & Perioperative Medicine  
University Hospital  
339 Windermere Road, B3-402  
London ON , Ontario, N6A 5A5  

Work  (519) 685-8500, ext. 34247

Websites of Interest [ Anesthesia Competence By Design Program
](https://sites.google.com/view/cbdwesternanes/home)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Lori Dengler

Title: Postgraduate Education Coordinator

Email: lori.dengler@lhsc.on.ca

Phone: (519) 685-8500 (Ext 34247)

Ext 33283

  

Name: Linda Szabo

Title: Postgraduate Education Coordinator

Email: linda.szabo@lhsc.on.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please read through the sections below to obtain a broad overview of our
program values, strengths and offerings.  

During the months of November and December we will be hosting virtual Town
Hall/Meet & Greet sessions with our Program Director, Director of Curriculum
Design, Director of Assessment and our Residents by zoom.  Dates will be
posted in CanPREPP shortly.



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

RESIDENCY TRAINING PROGRAM START DATE - All programs at Western commence on
July 1, 2025, with a mandatory one-day Anesthesia orientation in London,
Ontario.

Please note that due to the volume of applications our program receives we are
not able to provide individual feedback to applicants who are not succesful in
the match.  

For more details about our program please visit:

<https://sites.google.com/view/cbdwesternanes/home>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided (by submitting one
of the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.
Failure to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.
No other forms of verification are acceptable.  

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of card must be provided and legible.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three reference letters are required and will be reviewed by the selection
committee. No additional letters will be accepted. No undated references will
be reviewed. Only references dated from September 1, 2024 forward will be
considered. Any references dated prior to this date will not be reviewed.
References should be from practicing teaching staff physicians, preferably
members of undergrad or postgrad education committees, who have worked
directly with the applicant.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  700

  

All applicants must submit a 700 word personal letter in English.  

In your letter, please discuss the following:

  * Why you have chosen to pursue anesthesiology as a specialty?
  * What makes you well-suited to a high stress specialty like anesthesia?
  * Describe one life experience that has impacted who you are as a person and what kind of anesthesiologist you want to be?
  * In what way do you believe the anesthesia residency program at Western can help you achieve that goal?

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

A copy of medical school marks/transcripts and medical degree/diploma must be
submitted.  Documents that are not in English must be accompanied by a
notarized/certified translation.  Students applying in the last year of
medical school will need to submit their most recent marks/transcripts, and
will need to provide proof of their MD to CPSO prior to the start of residency
training.



* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All applications will be reviewed by consultant staff in the Department of
Anesthesia and Perioperative Medicine. It will be indicated on the CaRMS web
site those applicants selected for an interview and a follow-up email with
further details will be sent to those applicants.   Candidates placed on a
wait list will be contacted via email if an interview slot becomes available.
Virtual zoom interviews will be held on January 30th and 31st, 2025**.**   No
alternate interview dates will be offered.  

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 30, 2025
  * January 31, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Virtual (Zoom) interviews will be held with
Anesthesia consultant panels on January 30th and 31st, 2025.  We regret that
no alternate dates will be possible.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: There will be virtual welcome
addresses both days prior to the interviews which will serve to showcase the
program, the university and London.  We are currently in the process of
designing a virtual showcase that will allow you to become familiar with
Anesthesia at Schulich during the morning session. Interviews will be held
following these morning presentations.  
  
Candidates will have a 30 minute virtual interview with two faculty members
and will also have the opportunity to meet virtually with the program
director, as well as a group of current residents.  
  
More information on the specific scheduling will be provided to those
applicants selected for interview.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

**Selection Criteria:**

We are looking for candidates who demonstrate the following characteristics
(in no particular order):

  * academic potential
  * aptitude for independent learning and organization
  * aptitude for anesthesia (both technical and non-technical skills)
  * evidence of resilience
  * evidence of strong interpersonal and communication skills
  * evidence of team work and leadership potential
  * professionalism
  * participation in communithy-minded activities



## Program goals

First and foremost our mission at Western is to train residents to become
highly-skilled, knowledgeable and compassionate anesthesiologists, capable of
practising in any setting. In addition to outstanding clinical competence, the
residency program at Western focuses on giving the trainee the skills and
opportunities to excel in leadership, teaching, quality improvement and
research through individualized and flexible curriculum. We endeavour to
foster a program that embodies a spirit of community and collegiality and
inspires our residents to be leaders in our specialty.

## Selection process goals

Our selection process fully supports our program goals by seeking and
reviewing evidence of achievement of the knowledge, skills, and abilities
highlighted by the RCPSC CanMeds Roles.

  * **Medical Expert:**  Demonstration of aptitude to become high functioning clinical experts competent to face current and and emergent challenges
  * **Communicator:**  Evidence of effective communication skills adapted to diverse environments, including clinical, academic and non-academic settings
  * **Collaborator:**  Demonstration of effective multidisciplinary collaboration in both academic and non-academic spheres
  * **Leader:**  Evidence of leadership potential and capabilities that can be developed throughout residency to prepare graduates to be effective clinical leaders
  * **Healthcare Advocate:**  Demonstration of a sense of responsibility for others and the capacity to fulfil the role of healthcare advocacy with integrity and honour
  * **Scholar:** Evidence of an aptitude for independent self-motivated learning and a spirit of scientific inquiry 
  * **Professional:** Professionalism is the underpinning of the practice of medicine and Western residents are trained to hold themselves to the highest standards.  Through our selection process we seek to find candidates who conduct themselves in a manner exemplifying pride in the profession and a deep respect for others as human beings.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is comprised of the program
director, designated members of the RPC and Anesthesia faculty who are heavily
invested in residency education.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Effective balance between personal and professional activities.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We do not use elective choice as a screening measure for an interview.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Required examinations will be used as a screening measure for an interview   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Varied activities which promote personal development.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Demonstrated leadership in professional and personal endeavours.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Accepted   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstrated interest in and understanding of the specialty of Anesthesia.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Sources should reflect relationship with candidate and knowledge of candidate's abilities.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  If applicable, include in application.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Will be reviewed for academic standing.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We do not use elective choice as a screening measure
for an interview.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Indication of personal reflection and awareness of collaborative opportunities.   
Collegiality |  Potential to be a team player.   
Communication skills |  Ability to communicate effectively in spoken English.   
Health advocacy |  Understanding of the current state of health care and the challenges faced by all stakeholders   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated awareness of skills and abilities required.   
Interest in the program |  Familiar with the Western program.   
Leadership skills |  Provides examples of leadership roles.   
Professionalism |  Exhibits professional attire and attitude during interview.   
Scholarly activities |  Demonstrated interest in research opportunities.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Anesthesiology program at Western University is fully accredited by the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada and has implemented
Competence by Design, a hybrid, outcomes-based approach to training and
assessment that is more flexible and adaptable to  societal change.  Below are
some of our program highlights:

**FLEXIBILITY:**   Ours is the ideally sized residency with a large enough
patient base to provide ample experience in all areas of Anesthesia and
research but small enough so the 42 residents and 100 staff all know each
other as individuals - no one gets lost in the crowd.  We take pride in being
a flexible program that works hard to meet each individual's educational
goals.  The Residency Program Committee, led by the Program Director, Dr.
Melissa Chin, is dedicated to upholding the high standard of excellence
achieved by the program, balanced with a personal and friendly atmosphere.  

As part of our flexible program, we consider any reasonable proposal for
electives.  Our residents commonly pursue interprovincial electives as well as
international elective and medical mission opportunities.  They have also
proposed new and innovative rotations such as our now popular and well-
established hepatobiliary/liver transplant and simulation electives.

**NEW ACADEMIC PROGRAM:  **We are proud to say that we have recently
redesigned curriculum delivery in our program, allowing for more targeted
training experiences and educational planning.  Our goal is to inspire,
encourage and  develop learners' interests and aspirations, while providing a
solid, foundational understanding of all aspects of anesthesia and
perioperative medicine in a complex, team-based clinical environment.  First
year residents will now take part in an intensive foundational anesthesia
program covering the basics of anesthesia.  Second and third year residents
will participate in an advanced, core academic program with a focus on
subspecialty anesthesia and exploration of clinical application of the
foundational knowledge gained in first year.  The intensive program in the
PGY1-3 years is designed to equip our fourth and fifth year residents with the
skills to then make the most use of full independent academic days to prepare
for the Royal College exams.  

  
**BROAD CLINICAL EXPOSURE** : Our residency program offers a wide variety of
subspecialty training opportunities in anesthesia, with a large case volume
which allows us to be among the top Canadian training programs in resident
clinical exposure.  Because of the design of our hospital systems and our on-
call schedules, our residents are privileged with longitudinal exposure to
multiple subspecialties, most notably Obstetric Anesthesia and Pediatric
Anesthesia.  One of the unique experiences that Western offers is the
opportunity for highly structured, educationally rich experiences in the
South-Western Ontario Region with Postgraduate Distributed Education.  This
network of facilities is a joint project of the Schulich School of Medicine &
Dentistry at Western University and the Ministry of Health and Long Term Care
of Ontario.  Many residents pursue rotations in Windsor, Stratford and St.
Thomas, generally after their first year.  The site of the rotation is
selected by the trainee.  Financial support for these rotations is fully
supported by the Distributed Education Program (i.e. meals, travel and
accommodation).  We believe these opportunities provide our learners with the
perspective of local societal needs in anesthesia.

**REGIONAL ANESTHESIA TRAINING:   **Among those subspecialty training
opportunities is a robust regional anesthesia training program which boasts 3
dedicated rotations at each of our training sites designed to develop a broad
set of regional anesthesia skills.  We have consistently received positive
feedback from our residents on these experiences and are one of the most
sought-after programs for regional anesthesia electives.

**POINT-OF-CARE ULTRASOUND:  ** As a result of the dedicated efforts of our
consultants and residents, in May 2015 we introduced one of the first Canadian
Perioperative Ultrasound rotations.  This is now one of the most well-
established rotations in Canada and has consistently been one of the most
highly rated rotations in our program.

**SIMULATION PROGRAM:   **High fidelity simulation is now a well-established
training modality of choice for high acuity specialties such as anesthesia,
critical care and surgery.  At Western, our highly skilled simulation
educators have developed unique, interdisciplinary simulation programs which
provide our learners with a broad variety of simulation experiences,
developing Crisis Resource Management skills while also building crucial
relationships with our colleagues in other disciplines such as obstetrics &
gynecology, otolaryngology, and general surgery/trauma.  From the initiative
and dedication of previous residents in our program, we now also offer a
popular simulation elective, which provides our learners an opportunity to do
a deep dive into Crisis Resource Management principles and develop skills in
medical education and simulation delivery.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.



**Program Curriculum**

This residency program is 5 years in length.

Program length of training follows the Royal College or College of Family
Physicians of Canada standard.

Along with the other Canadian anesthesiology residency programs, Western
University follows the [Royal
College](https://www.royalcollege.ca/content/dam/documents/assessment/credentials-
and-exams/policy-for-certification-cbd-model-e.pdf)’s Policies for
Certification in CBD, Training Requirements, and Anesthesiology Competencies.
Our teaching sessions including academic half day lectures which run from year
1 to year 3, are based on the learning objectives of the [National
Curriculum](https://www.royalcollege.ca/content/dam/documents/ibd/anesthesiology-\(anes\)/anesthesiology-
national-curriculum-e.pdf).

We have introduced a new Academic Advisor role to help residents navigate the
new requirements for CBD and each resident is paired with an Academic Advisor.
We have three hospital sites that residents rotate through: University
Hospital, Victoria Hospital, and St. Joseph’s Health Care London.



**1 block = 4 weeks**

**STAGE :              TRANSITION TO DISCIPLINE**

**# of Blocks        3**

Clinical:

  * Introductory Anesthesia - general OR assignments
  * Orientation days - with an RT, in PACU, and in Preadmission Clinic

Teaching:

  * Summer Introductory Program - 1 day per week
  * Simulation airway bootcamp - 1 day



**STAGE :               FOUNDATIONS**

**# of Blocks         17**

  * Residents start taking independent call (OR and OB)
  * Continued general anesthesia rotations
  * Start of subspecialty anesthesia rotations (see below)
  * Off-Service rotations: General Surgery, ENT, Internal Medicine CTU, High Risk Obstetrics Clinic,  Adult Emergency Medicine, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, and adult ICU
  * Elective blocks



**STAGE :              CORE**

**# of Blocks        36**

  * Continued general anesthesia rotations
  * Continued subspecialty anesthesia rotations:  Cardiac, Neuro, Regional, Thoracic, Vascular, OB, Pediatrics, POCUS, Chronic Pain, Hepatobiliary/Liver Transplant; Acute Pain and Out-of-OR anesthesia
  * Support for research electives to develop scholarly projects



**STAGE :               TRANSITION TO PRACTICE**

**# of Blocks         9**

  * Continued consolidation year of anesthesia with a focus on more independence
  * Exam preparation program
  * Continue support for scholarly projects



**Please visit our**[**CBD
website**](https://sites.google.com/view/cbdwesternanes/)**for further details
about what we have to offer!**





Research  
  

All residents participate in a scholarly project during their five years of
postgraduate training. Didactic sessions in research methodology are presented
in our academic program to prepare trainees to participate effectively in
research. It is expected that these projects will be of sufficient quality
that the project is either presented at a national meeting or is published in
a peer-reviewed journal. Financial support is provided for residents
presenting their work at major meetings.

Project formats are chosen by the trainee and can vary widely. Quality
Improvement, Knowledge Translation Research, Clinical Research, Laboratory
Research, Reviews and Meta-analysis all fall within the bounds of our
projects. Dedicated time is available on an individualized basis. Our
residents have won numerous prizes for their research.

  
  

Academic Curriculum  
  

Our residents benefit from a robust academic program that includes weekly
academic teaching sessions, regular journal clubs, grand rounds, morning
subspecialty rounds, a longitudinal transfusion medicine education series, and
new this year, subspecialty learning cases that accompany each subspecialty
anesthesia rotation.

All residents are relieved of clinical duties to attend weekly academic
teaching sessions.  These sessions range from peer-to-peer learning sessions,
seminars and lectures presented by faculty and residents alike, sessions aimed
at developing decision-making skills in anesthetic management, as well as
sessions on non-medical expert topics such as professionalism and
communication.   A good selection of visiting professors and interdisciplinary
lecturers provides fresh points of view to staff and trainees alike.

Our program holds regular evening journal clubs that equip our residents with
critical appraisal skills while also facilitating team-building and resident
socialization.  Subspecialty journal clubs are also held on neuro, cardiac,
regional, OB and pediatric anesthesia rotations.

Morning teaching rounds occur every Wednesday and morning subspecialty rounds
occur on Friday mornings at all three main teaching sites, covering a wide
range of topics in subspecialty anesthesia.

New this year, we have developed learning cases that our residents will
complete while rotating through their subspecialty anesthesia rotations.  We
believe that moving this content from the academic half day sessions into
appropriate case discussions while on subspecialty will promote better
educational alignment and improve learning and understanding of complex
clinical topics.  

* * *

# Training Sites

We have three main hospital sites that residents rotate through for the
majority of their residency, as well as one regional site at which all
residents spend 1-2 rotations:

  * University Hospital
  * Victoria Hospital
  * St. Joseph's Hospital
  * Windsor Regional Hospital

Each site has a clearly defined role in the program.  We are the tertiary
referral centre for a catchment area of over 2 million people in Southwestern
Ontario. Western University is renowned for its strengths in neurosciences,
transplantation, cardiac care, hand and upper limb surgery, robotics,
simulation and research in many fields.  

* * *

# Additional Information

About London:

London , with a population of 540,000, is situated in the heart of
southwestern Ontario.  It has grown significantly since the COVID-19 pandemic,
which has  also increased the number of amenities associated with a larger
city without the same aggravation.  The population of London has become more
diverse, resulting in a more vibrant restaurant and food scene.  A short drive
away from the Great Lakes, as well as famous small towns such as Stratford,
there is no lack of opportunity for outdoor exploration and cultural
appreciation.  Known as the forest city, London has many trails in a well-
interconnected park system that allows you to travel through the city by bike
without using major roads.  London also boasts a lively festival scene, with a
festival in our city parks on almost every summer weekend.  



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27138?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27138