#  University of Toronto - Family Medicine - Greater Toronto Area

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 29, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 22

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Stuart Murdoch  
Dr. Karina Prucnal  

Address Department of Family and Community Medicine  
500 University Ave., 5th Floor  
Toronto, Ontario, M5G 1V7  

Work  416-946-4049

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Department of Family and Community Medicine
](https://dfcm.utoronto.ca/residency)  
[ Post Graduate Medical Education Office U of T
](https://pg.postmd.utoronto.ca/)  
[ Canadian Portal for Residency Program Promotion (CANPREPP) - Greater Toronto
Area Stream ](https://canprepp.ca/programs/university-of-toronto-family-
medicine-greater-toronto-area-stream/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: GTA

Title: IMG Joint Ontario Admissions Stream

Email: info@ontariofmp.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion**  
All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of the
University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

  
**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)  
** The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.  
  
_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

### FMProC- Requirements for 2025

The University of Toronto Family Medicine Program will be using the FMProC as
part of our selection process. The FMProC (Family Medicine Professional
Choices) is a Family Medicine context-speciﬁc Situational Judgement Test.

Please see below for more information about FMProC and please see below for
more information about CProMF:

All applicants will be required to write FMProC for their application to be
deemed complete. More details and information about registration for FMProC
can be found here: [www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/)

### Please note registration for the first round will open on September 11,
2024, and the testing window will begin in October 2024.

### Late requests will not be considered.

* * *

# Return of Service

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

The University of Toronto's Department of Family & Community Medicine (DFCM)
is recognized internationally for its clinical and educational excellence. The
goal of the program is to prepare you to practice Family Medicine anywhere in
the province (urban or rural) and the country.

  * The DFCM program has five Family Medicine residency streams you may apply to separately through CaRMS: 1. **Greater** **Toronto** **Area** **(GTA),** Barrie or Newmarket, 3. Midland or Orillia, 4. Integrated Communities, and 5. Integrated Communities – Uxbridge Markham.
  * The same application should be submitted for each stream to which you apply. Only one application will be reviewed.
  * Attendance at only **one** Virtual Interview Session is required if you apply to one or more of the five University of Toronto streams: **Greater Toronto Area (GTA),** 2\. Barrie or Newmarket, 3. Midland or Orillia, 4. Integrated Communities, and 5. Integrated Communities – Uxbridge Markham.
  * The **Greater Toronto Area** stream has 13 hospital teaching sites located throughout the GTA, oﬀering opportunities to train in hospital teaching sites in Toronto, Scarborough, North York, Mississauga, and Markham
  * Your hospital teaching site is determined after the CaRMS match, using a separate internal matching process where you will be asked to rank all 13 teaching sites in order of preference.
  * Please see the [Admissions Process Section ](https://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/how-apply)of our website for further.

Please read the following information .in detail to ensure your application
receives full consideration.

In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Language assessment document accepted:  **TOEFL-iBT

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:**  7 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Occupational English Test (OET)
-Medicine

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum score of 9 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Letter of language proficiency*

*Alternatively, candidates can submit a printout from the [World Directory of Medical Schools](http://www.wdoms.org/) which clearly states that the language of instruction is English or French.

The **IELTS Indicator**  will be accepted as a substitute for the Academic
Version of the IELTS.

The **TOEFL iBT Home Edition**  will be accepted as a substitute for the TOEFL
iBT.

Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site. Please
review specific program descriptions for more information.

Examinations

Required

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

NAC examination - Statement of results

A passing score of NAC is required to apply.  MCCQE part II passing score can
be used to apply instead of the NAC passing score.

NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report (for those whose latest
attempt at the NAC was prior to September 2020 or in 2021 or later)

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

MCCQE1 - Statement of Results

A passing score of MCCQE1 is required to apply.

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).



Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Exactly 3 reference letters using the Family Medicine Structured Reference
Letter (SRL) submitted through CaRMS will be the only form of reference
letters accepted**SRLs from 2023 CaRMS cycle and on will be accepted.**    The
same reference letters can be used for all Ontario Family Medicine Programs
that you apply to.

A Family Medicine Structured Reference Letter (SRL) is used by all Family
Medicine Programs across the country that require a reference letter. This
tool will allow for more consistency in the selection process for Family
Medicine admissions. The SRL was developed by a subgroup of Family Medicine
Residency Programs, which has been vetted by all Family Medicine programs in
Canada. Three SRLs are required. If possible, one or more SRLs from a Family
Physician is helpful but not required. Please DO NOT provide more than three
SRLs, only the first three SRLs will be considered. Should your referee submit
a traditional reference letter, it will not be reviewed and your application
may be deemed incomplete.

*Please note that the Family Medicine SRL is provided to your referee through CaRMS upon submitting a reference request After submitting the reference request, candidates do not have to send anything else to their referees.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

There are 3 options to add medical school transcript to your CaRMS account:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. Transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](physiciansapply.ca) account (Log into CaRMS Online and follow the instructions in the physiciansapply.ca section).

Please include a supplementary statement titled “Transcript Addendum” at the
beginning of your Personal Letter explaining any poor academic performance or
failure, any gaps in medical school training or if you did not graduate with
your cohort. The transcript addendum will not count towards your word limit
for your Personal Letter. Failing to submit a transcript addendum, if the
criteria apply, will result in the application not being considered.

Medical Student Performance Record

There are two options for you to add [this](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153143-What-is-an-MSPR-) document to your account:

  1. Ask your medical school to upload their document using the [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-).
  2. Upload the document themselves in the Document Tracking section of their CaRMS Online account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English, you
are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Personal letter (under 500 words) describing how your background and
experiences have led to an interest and commitment to a career in family
medicine, and your understanding of the role of Family Physicians in the
Canadian health care system. Letters exceeding the 500 words limit will not be
reviewed.

Please include a supplementary statement titled “Transcript Addendum” at the
beginning of your Personal Letter explaining any poor academic performance or
failure, any gaps in medical school training or if you did not graduate with
your cohort. The transcript addendum will not count towards your word limit
for your Personal Letter. Failing to submit a transcript addendum, if the
criteria apply, will result in the application not being considered.

The same personal letter can be used for all Ontario Family Medicine Programs
that you apply to.

Custom Résumé / CV

Please provide the following details in your CV:

  1. Group your clinical experience in chronological order (list your clinical experience as they relate to time)
  2. Indicate your level of responsibility (observer, student, resident, other trainee status, independent practice, etc. should be specified for each clinical experience listed in the CaRMS C.V.)

Optional - will be reviewed

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Optional - will be reviewed.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applicants who apply to any of the seven Ontario Family Medicine Programs
(McMaster University, NOSM University, University of Ottawa, Queen's
University, University of Toronto, Toronto Metropolitan University, Western
University) will be assessed by a joint panel comprised of representatives
from each of the seven Ontario Family Medicine Programs. This panel will
assess all candidates' applications and grant interviews to approximately 300
applicants, regardless of the number of Ontario Family Medicine Programs
candidates apply to. The panel will provide the final evaluation results of
all candidates who were interviewed to each of the individual Ontario Family
Medicine Programs that they applied to.  Each Ontario Family Medicine Program
will then generate its own final rank list.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 17, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Some applicants will be invited for virtual
interviews to be held on January 17, 2025.  Registration times will be
provided to those invited for an interview closer to the virtual interview
date.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: **Will I receive an interview offer?  
**The seven Ontario Family Medicine Programs usually receive over 1200
applications and can only offer interviews to a maximum of approximately 300
applicants.  
  
[Family Medicine Professional Choices Assessment
(FMProC)](https://fmproc.com/), NAC and MCCQE1 are required and candidates
must submit results of FMProC, NAC and MCCQE1.  Approximately 300 candidates
with top scores in the NAC and MCCQE1 will be invited for interviews.  
  
Applicants who are not interviewed will not be ranked by the programs.  
  
**If I receive an interview offer, do I have to travel to all six Ontario
Family Medicine Programs for interviews?  
**As per the AFMC Resident Matching Committee (ARMC) decision, all 2025 R1-
match interviews will occur in a virtual format - you will not be required to
travel to the Program with which your virtual interview will be held.  The
seven Ontario Family Medicine Programs will conduct a standardized virtual
interview in English.  Should you be invited for a virtual interview, you will
be assigned to one of the seven Ontario Family Medicine Programs for the
virtual interview regardless of which school(s) you have applied to or intend
to apply to.  Each Ontario Family Medicine Program to which you applied will
use your joint virtual interview score to decide on your ranking
independently.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

### I have received an interview offer based on my eligibility and exam
scores. Are there other preferential selection criteria that the program
directors consider in my ranking?

The seven Ontario Family Medicine Programs prefer applicants who have recent
full-time clinical experience (clinical clerkship during medical school or
residency or independent practice). Observership is NOT considered clinical
experience. Participation in a residency training program in Family Medicine
or in clinical practice in family medicine or its equivalent will be favoured
in our ranking.

## Program goals

The University of Toronto's Department of Family & Community Medicine (DFCM)
is recognized internationally for its clinical and educational excellence. The
goal of the program is to prepare residents to practice Family Medicine
anywhere in the province (urban or rural) and the country.

Our program seeks to train leaders in education and research in Family
Medicine who are able to practice and provide high quality comprehensive care
to communities both locally and internationally. Accordingly, successful
applicants will have a strong academic record that demonstrates proﬁciency in
Family Medicine and related subjects. Applicants providing evidence of strong
academic performance and strong interest and commitment to Family Medicine
will be prioritized to receive an invitation to interview. Successful
applicants will be able to demonstrate a strong understanding of Family
Medicine and evidence of interest and commitment to a career in Family
Medicine at the time of interviews.

## Selection process goals

Please include a supplementary statement titled "Transcript Addendum" at the
beginning of your Personal Letter explaining any poor academic performance or
failure, any gaps in medical school training or if you did not graduate with
your cohort. The transcript addendum will not count towards your word limit
for your Personal Letter. Failing to submit a transcript addendum, if the
criteria apply, will result in the application not being considered.

Applicants who fail to meet criteria for strong academic performance will not
be considered further. Interviewed applicants will be ranked based on an
aggregate score of their application and interview. The selection committee
reserves the right to adjust final rankings by consensus to address issues of
program priority and diversity. Scores on the file review and interviews will
be used to determine a total score. An applicant's total score will determine
their position on the rank order list.

## File review process

Review team composition : All files are jointly screened for eligibility and
then further assessed by a member of the joint selection team.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 601 +  
The seven Ontario Family Medicine Programs usually receive around 1300
applications yearly.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Group all your clinical experience in chronological order (list your clinical experience as they relate to time) Indicate your level of responsibility (observer, student, resident, other trainee status, independent practice, etc. should be specified for each clinical experience listed in the CaRMS C.V.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We recognize that applicant opportunities to arrange and complete electives has been challenging and would like to reassure you that a lack of elective activity this year will not negatively affect your application to our program. Ideally, we are looking for and rewarding applicants who have completed a broad range of electives including our specialty if possible.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Family Medicine Professional Choices Assessment (FMProC), NAC and MCCQE1 are required and candidates must submit results of FMProC, NAC and MCCQE1. Approximately 300 candidates with top scores in the NAC and MCCQE1 will be invited for interviews.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of variety of extra-curricular activities. Leadership positions within the extra-curricular activities are valued.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership positions within academic and extracurricular activities are valued.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Candidates must demonstrate a strong academic performance.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Personal letters must be well written, address the questions posed in the CaRMS program description and demonstrate an understanding of the discipline of Family Medicine. The same personal letter can be used for applications to all Ontario Family Medicine Programs. Please include a supplementary statement titled “Transcript Addendum” at the beginning of your Personal Letter explaining any poor academic performance or failure, any gaps in medical school training or if you did not graduate with your cohort. The transcript addendum will not count towards your word limit for your Personal Letter. Failing to submit a transcript addendum, if the criteria apply, will result in the application not being considered.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Exactly 3 reference letters using the Family Medicine Structured Reference Letter SRL submitted through CaRMS will be the only form of reference letters accepted. SRLs from 2023 CaRMS cycle and on will be accepted. The same 3 reference letters can be used for applications to all Ontario Family Medicine Programs.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research, publications and scholarly activity will be considered in the context of extra-curricular activities.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Candidates must demonstrate a strong academic performance.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We recognize that there can be challenges in
candidates’ opportunities to arrange preferred electives during medical school
training and would like to reassure you that this will not negatively affect
your application to our program. Ideally we are looking for and rewarding
applicants who have completed a broad range of electives relevant to primary
care or family medicine with or without electives in family medicine.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Demonstrate a good understanding of the importance of collaboration in FM.   
Collegiality |  Demonstrate a good understanding of the importance of collegiality in FM.   
Communication skills |  Candidates must possess strong communication skills.   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrate a good understanding of the importance of health advocacy in FM.   
Interest in the discipline |  It is expected that candidates demonstrate a strong interest in FM.   
Interest in the program |  It is expected that candidates demonstrate a strong interest in program.   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrate a good understanding of the importance of leadership skills in FM.   
Professionalism |  Demonstrate a high degree of professionalism & understand its importance in FM.   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component.   
Other interview component(s) |  We do not offer other interview formats for applicants who are unable to attend a virtual interview.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * Toronto's diversity is fully reﬂected in Family Medicine settings that serve patients from every cultural, linguistic and socio-economic
  * Hospital teaching sites oﬀer exposure to the full range of Family Medicine practice and specialties, including unique opportunities in areas such as HIV/AIDS, inner city medicine, immigrant health, and addictions medicine.
  * DFCM residents are equipped to practice in any type of They have access to a broad scope of patient populations and clinical experiences in an inter-professional team environment.
  * DFCM residents experience the best of both worlds: the unique learning opportunities of a large, internationally respected program and the richness of small group learning at their hospital teaching site.
  * Residents are active participants in the program and have ﬂexibility to achieve their own speciﬁc learning goals.
  * The DFCM program is enhanced by a strong academic Weekly academic teaching provides exposure to current issues and topics aﬀecting the practice of Family Medicine.
  * The Family Medicine program is accredited by the College of Family Physicians of Canada.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

There are 13 hospital teaching sites in the Greater Toronto Area stream of the
University of Toronto Family Medicine Program. Applicants matched to this
stream will further select their hospital teaching site through a post-CaRMS
internal match (see below in the **Additional Information** section).

All core rotations are completed at the hospital teaching site, and there are
elective opportunities within and outside of the University of Toronto system.
Some of our hospital teaching sites provide horizontal curriculum, and some
provide the traditional block curriculum. To learn more about our hospital
teaching sites [please click here](https://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/teaching-
sites).

### Pre-Residency Program

All International Medical Graduates accepted to all residency programs will be
required to complete the Pre-Residency Programs (PRP1 and PRP2) prior to
entering into a residency program. Matched International Medical Graduates
will be expected to attend PRP1 in-person through [Touchstone
Institute](https://touchstoneinstitute.ca/) as early as March 2025.

International Medical Graduates matched to the Ontario Family Medicine
Programs will begin their PRP1 as early as March 2025.  PRP2 will take place
in-person following PRP1 at your matched hospital teaching site. Please note
that this will take place and needs to be completed BEFORE the start of the
residency program on July 1, 2025.

### Assessment Verification Period

All IMG applicants accepted to residency training programs will be required to
undergo an Assessment Verification Period (AVP). This assessment period is
normally 12 weeks in length and is required by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Ontario to obtain an educational license to enter a residency
program. [CPSO – International Medical Graduates
(IMGs)](https://www.cpso.on.ca/Physicians/Registration/International-Medical-
Graduates).

IMGs that have failed an AVP and are reapplying through CaRMS are ineligible
to apply for training in the same specialty in Ontario, but may apply to a
different specialty in the first and/or second iteration. IMGs who have
withdrawn from a program prior to completion of an AVP must declare so upon
application.

### Competency-Based Curriculum** **

A strong primary care system requires well-prepared, comprehensive generalists
with skills and knowledge relevant to their context. Our program is a
recognized leader in competency-based Family Medicine education. This approach
ensures learners acquire the knowledge, skills, attitudes and behaviours that
are necessary to practice Family Medicine. Our competency-based curriculum
builds on the internationally recognized CanMEDS-FM (Family Medicine)
framework and roles—defining the specific competencies and learning
experiences a skilled family physician requires. Our unique staged development
model links competencies to the various stages of residency, from competencies
required to begin clinical training through to enhanced competencies required
by family physicians with special interests in areas such as emergency
medicine, low-risk obstetrics, palliative care, care of the elderly, and many
more.

_Please see our website for more details_[ _DFCM Competency Based
Curriculum_](https://dfcm.utoronto.ca/curriculum) _._

### Self-Evaluation Tool

** ** 1\. Online Practice Profile

The delivery of our curriculum is paired with innovative tools for monitoring
and assessment. An online resident Practice Proﬁle tool allows residents to
document and track their clinical experience to ensure it is comprehensive and
fulﬁlls the competencies deﬁned in the curriculum.

2\. Progress Testing

Twice yearly, the program administers the Family Medicine Medical Expert
Assessment of Progress (FM-MAP) for all residents. Residents are tested on
knowledge application in the domains that reﬂect the program’s competency-
based curriculum. As they write the test iteratively, residents gain an
understanding of their progress in the Family Medicine Expert role and are
encouraged to use their results to tailor their future clinical experience,
studying, and preparation for certiﬁcation examinations.

3\. Field Notes

Field Notes have been designed to be quick, frequent low-stakes/formative
forms of feedback and assessment. After patient encounters or during post-
clinic review, preceptors provide oral feedback to trainees. This can then be
documented as a Field Note and submitted electronically through a custom-
designed web interface.

4\. Six Month Progress Review

Six Month Progress review meetings, one-on-one meetings between a resident and
their Teaching Hospital Program Director or designate. During this meeting,
career goals, case mix, academic achievement, resident academic project and
general progress are discussed. Successful completion of progress review
meetings for all residents is logged via a centralized web interface.

### PGCorEd™ Module – Resident as a Teacher

These web-based e-learning module provides the foundation for the intrinsic
Can MEDS- FM roles and aims to help PGY1 residents transition from the learner
role of medical school to the practitioner role. All University of Toronto
residents are required to complete the web based PGCorEd™ core Resident as a
Teacher module as part of their residency program certiﬁcation.

### Virtual Care Competency Training Roadmap (ViCCTR) Modules

Web-based interactive e-learning modules designed to support the development
of medical expertise and transformation of clinical reasoning for the virtual
care environment. The modules were developed in collaboration with medical
education experts to ensure our learners develop the necessary skills to
incorporate virtual care into their current and future family practices. All
Family Medicine residents are required to complete the ViCCTR modules as part
of the residency program certification. Please see our website for more
details [ViCCTR Modules](https://dfcm.utoronto.ca/curriculum)

### San’yas Indigenous Cultural Safety Online Training Modules

San'yas is a nationally recognized training program aimed at improving
cultural safety for Indigenous people accessing health services. The
curriculum and learning activities have been shown to help residents
strengthen their knowledge, awareness, and skills for working with and
providing service to Indigenous people and communities; work more safely and
eﬀectively with Indigenous people; begin considering their role in correcting,
rebuilding and transforming systems to uproot Indigenous-speciﬁc racism. All
Family Medicine residents are required to complete the San’yas modules as part
of the residency program certiﬁcation.

### Teaching Practices: Community/Rural Family Medicine Experience

All second-year Family Medicine resident complete two consecutive four-week
blocks of community/rural Family Medicine training through the Teaching
Practices (TP) program. The TP network includes more than 90 experienced
faculty located in approximately 35 community/rural practices from southern
Ontario to remote northern Ontario. Residents are required to live in the same
community/rural practice for the duration of TP. Financial assistance is
provided to offset travel and accommodation expenses. [Please see our website
for more details](https://dfcm.utoronto.ca/teaching-practices).

### Academic Project

All residents are required to complete an academic project by the end of their
second year. Although many residents complete a research project, other
academic endeavors such as development of educational materials, audits and
critical reviews of topics are equally acceptable.

### Quality Improvement (QI) Curriculum

Family physicians are increasingly being held accountable for their
performance. The DFCM has a QI curriculum for   PGY1 residents, to equip
residents with the necessary skills to lead teams while eﬀectively ﬁnding new
and easier ways of enhancing patient care, increasing both patient and
provider satisfaction and ultimately improving patient outcomes. Residents are
required to complete a QI practicum in PGY1.

### Academic Half Days

Mandatory Academic Half Days covering core topics in Family Medicine are held
weekly at all hospital teaching sites. A number of times over the academic
year, the entire residency group attends a combination of practice management
and resident-organized central core days. Valuable learning opportunities at
hospital teaching sites may include journal clubs, evidence-based medicine
rounds and weekly grand rounds in Family Medicine**.**

* * *

# Training Sites

To learn more about our **13 Hospital Teaching Sites** in the Greater Toronto
Area stream click[ here](https://dfcm.utoronto.ca/greater-toronto-area-gta-
stream).

To view an interactive **Map** of all our hospital teaching sites by stream
click
[here](https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/viewer?mid=1XZszGStmRsE5jz2tOM1YmJ_Ko0cuIlLp&ll=44.153363216560095%2C-79.51447195&z=9).

To view our **Quick Facts: Hospital Teaching Site Comparison Chart** by
streams click [here](https://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/postgraduate-residency-
program-hospital-teaching-sites).

For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>

* * *

# Additional Information

**Additional Ontario Information:**

  1. **Permanent** **Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education oﬃce in order to comply with current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry of Colleges and Universities.
  2. **Matched** **applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data ﬁle to the matched university’s postgraduate education oﬃce. The postgraduate oﬃce will share the information as needed, but not limited to, the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:** The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure****to****meet****or****provide proof** of any of the stated requirements may result in applicant ﬁle being removed at any point during the match.

**Joint Ontario Virtual IMG Information Session:** IMGs offered an interview
invitation will receive details about an optional Joint Ontario Virtual
Information Session, which will take place before the scheduled interview. The
Joint Ontario Virtual Information Session will review the general IMG
admissions process; and feature a Q + A component.

**Virtual Resident Meet and Greet Sessions:** IMGs offered an interview
invitation will receive details about the optional Virtual Resident Meet and
Greet Sessions, which will take place before your scheduled interview. The
Virtual Resident Meet and Greet Sessions are an opportunity to meet with both
faculty and resident leadership, introduce applicants to the interview
process, and will feature a Q + A component with a resident representative
from each of our hospital teaching sites and streams.

**Virtual Open House Sessions:** Applicants matched to the U of T Greater
Toronto Area Stream will be invited to meet with the GTA hospital teaching
Site Directors through a Virtual Open House session to be held a week after
the release of the CaRMS match results (March 4, 2025). Attendance is optional
and will not inﬂuence hospital teaching site assignments (Internal Match).
Matched residents may also directly contact hospital teaching Site Directors,
site administrators and chief residents to obtain information.

**Post-CaRMS Internal Match:** Newly matched residents will be asked to rank
all the hospital teaching sites in order of preference. A mathematical
algorithm is used, taking into consideration resident ranking and hospital
teaching site capacity to provide the best overall outcome for all new
incoming residents. The internal match is not based on the strength of your
CaRMS application or position on the CaRMS rank list. The internal matching
process does not guarantee that newly matched residents will be matched to
their preferred hospital teaching site. However, all those matched to the GTA
stream will equally benefit from the strong curriculum and academic program
offered as part of the experience in the Family Medicine Residency Program at
the University of Toronto. Hospital teaching site assignments will be
announced in mid-April.

International Medical Graduates who match to our program will need to be
available for in-person site orientation and information session purposes
between **June 23-July 1, 2025**.

### Adding Additional Streams:

When applying to the U of T residency program, it is recommended that you
apply to all streams you may be interested in before the CaRMS online
application closes. Adding additional streams after CaRMS online application
closes may be considered until the last UofT scheduled interview on January
27, 2025. In order to be considered for additional streams, you must email
[dfcm.admissions@utoronto.ca ](mailto:dfcm.admissions@utoronto.ca)indicating
which stream(s) you would like to add, as well as add the stream to your CaRMS
online application.

### Car Requirements:

Access to a car with the ability to drive or be driven is required upon
admission. This will allow for full participation in the program to travel
between hospital teaching sites, elective opportunities and the Teaching
Practice (community/rural) Family Medicine Experience.

### Additional Training Opportunities:

**1\. Enhanced Skills Program** **(PGY3)**

* Residents can apply to his program in their PGY1 year

Opportunities exist for further training beyond the two years in areas such as
emergency medicine, anesthesia, low- risk obstetrics, women's health, care of
the elderly, sports medicine, and academic fellowship programs. Please see our
website for more details on the [Enhanced Skills
Program](https://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/enhanced-skills-program).

### 2.  Family Medicine and Enhanced Skills (FAM-ES) Integrated 3-Year Program
(I3P)

*Residents can apply to this program in their PGY1 year

The FAM-ES program will integrate PGY3 content (either Palliative Care or Care
of the Elderly) alongside core Family Medicine during the PGY2 and PGY3 years
of training. Upon completion of FAM-ES, graduates are eligible to apply for
the appropriate CCFP PGY3 designation. Please see our website for more details
on [FAM-ES](https://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/family-medicine-enhanced-skills-
fames-integrated-3-year-program-i3p)

### 3.  Family Medicine Leadership and Master of Science in System Leadership
and Innovation Integrated 3-Year Program (I3P)

*Residents can apply to this program in their PGY1 year

The Integrated 3-Year Leadership Program; oﬀers leadership skills to selected
Family Medicine residents in an innovative longitudinal integration of Family
Medicine residency training combined with a Master’s of Science in System
Leadership and Innovation (MScSLI). Please see our website for more details on
the [Integrated 3-year](https://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/family-medicine-
leadership-master-science-system-leadership-and-innovation-integrated-3-year-
program) [Leadership Program](https://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/family-medicine-
leadership-master-science-system-leadership-and-innovation-integrated-3-year-
program)

**Promotional Videos:**

[Toronto: The World at Your
Doorstep](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ElmVUKUgVig&feature=youtu.be)

[Why choose Family Medicine at the University of
Toronto?](https://youtu.be/AkftN6saBY8)







* * *

# FAQ

Please see the following FAQ links:

[Admissions Process FAQs](https://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/faq-admissions-process)

[Family Medicine Program FAQs](https://www.dfcm.utoronto.ca/faq-family-
medicine-program)

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26807?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26807