#  University of Saskatchewan - Family Medicine - North West - Regional-Rural  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 05, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 5

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Sheila Smith  

Address Department of Family Medicine  
Suite 102  
11427 Railway Avenue  
North Battleford, Saskatchewan, S9A 3G8  

306-446-8631

Websites of Interest [ Find Your Place in North Battleford (North West)
](https://medicine.usask.ca/familymedicine/learners/north-west.php)  
[ Facebook - USask Family Med ](https://www.facebook.com/usaskfamilymed)  
[ Instagram - USask Family Med ](https://www.instagram.com/usaskfamilymed/)  
[ Department of Family Medicine
](https://medicine.usask.ca/familymedicine/about/about-us.php)  
[ City of North Battleford ](https://www.cityofnb.ca/)  
[ Destination Battlefords ](https://battlefords.ca/)  
[ North West Instagram ](https://www.instagram.com/nw.familymed)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Aaron Prystupa

Title: North West Site Director

  

Name: Kristen Huebner

Title: Program Administrative Assistant

Email: krh112@usask.ca

Phone: 306-446-8631

  

* * *

# Important Information

## Welcome from North West Site Director

It is with great pleasure that I extend a heartfelt welcome to all applicants
considering our Rural Family Medicine Program.  At the heart of healthcare
lies a deep commitment to communities, and this program, you have the
opportunity to forge a meaningful connection with both medicine and the people
you will serve.  Our program's focus on rural healthcare will expose you to a
diverse spectrum of cases, nurturing your skills in comprehensive care and
empathy.  As you journey with us, you'll not only gain invaluable medical
insights but also form lasting bonds with a tight-knit group of residents and
faculty.  We eagerly anticipate the chance to learn about your passion for
rural medicine and your aspirations to make a genuine difference. Welcome to a
path of purpose and growth!

## **Welcome from the Program Director**

Welcome to the University of Saskatchewan Family Medicine Program! My name is
Sheila Smith and I will be your program director. We want to support you to do
your best work. Our program provides opportunities to practice inclusive and
equitable care to our patients and our communities. You will experience
learning environments that are strengthened by our diverse and inclusive
teams. Our program is constantly learning and innovating and we welcome you to
be part of our journey.

**Important Information for Applicants**

The Family Medicine CMG stream is open to CMGs and graduates of US allopathic
schools. Applicants are responsible for reviewing the [University of
Saskatchewan Policies for the R1 Match](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-
residency-match/eligibility-criteria/saskatchewan/) to determine if they meet
all requirements and eligibility criteria. Failure to meet or provide proof of
any of the stated requirements or documents may result in an applicant’s file
not being reviewed or ranked.

**Casper Test**  
All applicants must complete the Casper test. Please refer to the Examinations
section for more information.

**Family Medicine Professional Choices Assessment (FMProC)  
** All applicants must complete the Family Medicine Professional Choices
Assessment (FMProC). Please refer to the Examinations section for more
information.

**Licensing  
** Matched applicants must be eligible for an educational register license
with the [College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Registration___Licensure/web/Applicants/Licensure/Registration_and_Licensure_Landing.aspx?hkey=75b022f8-df64-4f34-8e2a-a09bea881787)
(CPSS) for a July 1st start date and must maintain eligibility for an
educational register license throughout their entire training program. Matched
applicants who are graduating in the spring will need to provide a copy of
their medical degree/diploma to the PGME office and the College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Saskatchewan (CPSS) prior to the start of residency training.
Any delays in providing all required documentation to CPSS may result in the
following:

  * delay in issuance of an educational register license and a delay in start of postgraduate training beyond July 1st
  * release from CaRMS match contract

**Applicants completing medical education at the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)**  are
required to submit proof of English language proficiency before the rank order
deadline to demonstrate they meet CPSS requirements. More information is
available under Supporting Documentation-Language Proficiency.

**NOTE:**  Applicants who are considering a delay to their convocation date
must be aware that a medical degree cannot be issued to a student until they
have convocated. CPSS bylaws require that new residents must have received
their medical degree prior to the commencement of residency training. Choosing
to delay convocation will affect a matched applicant’s ability to commence
their residency training program in Saskatchewan on July 1. Please refer to
the [U of S CaRMS Deferral Policy](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/carms-
deferral-of-training-start-date---match-violation-release-from-
match.php#relatedForms) for additional information.

**Credentialing**  
In order to commence and continue in Postgraduate Medical Education training
programs, matched applicants must be eligible for and maintain privileges
within the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) as determined by their
credentialing process. The Saskatchewan Health Authority requires successful
applicants to submit immunization records and a current criminal record check
as part of their pre-resident application for appointment. Applicants with
criminal records will be considered on a case by case basis by the College of
Medicine in consultation with the Health Authority.

Any delays in providing all required documentation to the Saskatchewan Health
Authority may result in a delay in the start of postgraduate training beyond
July 1st.

**Resident Boot Camp  
** All matched applicants must attend a mandatory three-day Resident Boot Camp
scheduled for late June. The purpose of the Boot Camp is to provide additional
support to trainees as they transition to residency by introducing and
consolidating baseline skills and knowledge needed to flourish during their
residency years. The program will include interactive case-based and hands-on
practice sessions. Stipends will be provided to trainees.

Attendance is required and absences are only permitted in exceptional
circumstances, with prior approval of PGME.

**Advanced Cardiac Life Support  
** Matched applicants are required to provide proof of ACLS certification
(current as of July 1, 2025) to the PGME office prior to starting their
training program. The ACLS course must be endorsed by the Heart and Stroke
Foundation of Canada and/or the American Heart Association. ACLS training that
is not certified by these two organizations and/or is completed entirely
through an online course will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for
all costs associated with obtaining ACLS certification.

**Personal Transportation**  
Applicants who match to the Family Medicine residency training program are
required to have a valid driver’s license and access to a vehicle in order to
drive to mandatory rural and remote educational experiences. Residents are
also expected to be able to travel within communities for educational
experiences. Applicants should be aware that not all training sites have
access to public transportation and residents are required to provide their
own transportation. Residents receive mileage reimbursement as per PGME
guidelines.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

  

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

All applicants must be Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents at the time of
application and must submit a notarized/certified photocopy of one of the
accepted citizenship documents.

Proof of citizenship must be current at the time of application and expired
documents will not be accepted.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum of 7.0 in each of the components

**Language assessment document accepted:**

  1. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on paper at a test venue
  2. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on a computer at a test venue
  3. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine at Home

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum grade of B

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of 9 in all sections

Applicants may be required to provide proof of proficiency in the English
language to meet licensing requirements of the [College of Physicians and
Surgeons (CPSS) of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Licensure/Requirements_Content/English_Language_Proficiency.aspx).

Applicants who graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States,
where English is the language of instruction **are not**  required to submit
proof of English language proficiency.

**Canadian applicants with medical education from the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)  are required
**to meet the English language proficiency requirements of the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan and must complete one of the language
exams listed above.

Applicants who are required to complete a language exam must submit a valid
test score in their CaRMS application **by the deadline for submission and
assignment of applications and documents.** Applicants who do not provide
acceptable proof of language proficiency, if required, will not be ranked.

Applicants must meet all of the criteria in one of the IELTS, OET or CELPIP
examinations. Please note that results from examinations cannot be combined,
unless the testing institution offers a sub-test.  
NOTE: Only OET offers sub-tests. CPSS will accept sub-tests obtained within
the same 24-month period as the original OET exam was sat.

Please direct any questions about language requirements to
[della.toews@usask.ca](mailto:della.toews@usask.ca). Applicants should not
contact CPSS directly about their eligibility for licensure.

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Family Medicine programs have adopted the Canadian Family Medicine Structured
Reference Form (SRF). All FM programs requesting a reference will require the
form. Traditional narrative letters will NOT be accepted. Should your referee
submit a traditional letter it will not be reviewed and your application may
be deemed incomplete.  New references are mandatory with each admissions
cycle.

Three (3) reference letters using the Canadian Family Medicine Structured
Reference Form are required. Please submit the same reference letters to each
site you apply to. Applicants should familiarize themselves with [how to
request](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408366069133-How-do-I-
request-a-Family-Medicine-Structured-Reference-Letter-) a Family Medicine
Structured Reference Letter on the CaRMS website. Applicants can direct their
referees to the [example](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/sample-FM-structured-
reference-letter-CMG.pdf) of the reference letter on the CaRMS website.
Letters by Primary Care Providers are strongly recommended.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter describing yourself and your career interest is required.
Please address the personal letter to the overall program "Dr. Sheila Smith
and Selection Committee" and NOT to each site. Submit the same personal letter
to each site you are applying to.

As Family Physicians, we are interested in learning about you in the same way
we are interested in learning about the context of our patients.  Your letter
must include your motivations for applying to Family Medicine and selecting
the University of Saskatchewan for training. Please also reflect on qualities
that are critical to being a Family Physician, service to rural, remote and
underserved populations and strengths that you will contribute to our program.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Matched applicants who are graduating in the spring will need to provide a
copy of their medical degree/diploma to the PGME office and
[CPSS](https://www.cps.sk.ca/) prior to the start of residency training.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025
  * January 25, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interview dates:  
  

  * January 22, 23, 24, 25, 2025

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Details regarding interview date and
time will be forwarded upon notification of the applicant. One interview will
be offered for all sites on a first come first serve basis. Our interview team
consists of program and site leadership, designated faculty and residents and
program administrators. Applicants rotate through four 15-20 minute interviews
conducted by faculty and resident interviewers. Interviewers may be from
various sites. Applicants must attend all interview stations to be considered.  
  
CaRMS has mandated that only virtual interviews can be offered for the 2025
match; in person interviews cannot be considered for any applicants. Virtual
interviews will be conducted using Zoom.  
  
During the interview period, those applicants selected for interviews will be
offered the following information sessions and wellness opportunities.  
  

  1. Site lounges - these sessions are hosted by the sites as an informal way to provide site specific information and opportunities for personal and focused interaction.
  2. Community spaces - these sessions are hosted by the University of Sasktachewan medical school clubs and are offered as safe spaces for applicants. To protect applicant confidentiality the program is not involved beyond arranging for hosts to be available and providing applicants with information to access the spaces.

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

The goal of the Department of Family Medicine and the Postgraduate Family
Medicine Residency Program at the University of Saskatchewan is to produce
caring and compassionate Family Physicians who are ready to provide
comprehensive care to all patients in Saskatchewan, especially those serving
rural, remote and underserved populations.

Our mission is to create, teach and develop the knowledge, skills and
attitudes specific to the discipline of Family Medicine.

  * We will work to optimize health by demonstrating excellence and innovation in service, education and scholarly activity.
  * We will provide university, hospital and community-based education consistent with the principles of Family Medicine.
  * We will focus our efforts on working with communities in response to their health needs.

## Selection process goals

Identify applicants who have shown an interest in and commitment to generalist
Family Medicine.

Identify applicants who have shown an interest in and commitment to rural,
remote and underserved populations.

Identify applicants and who have clinical and life experiences that will
assist them in understanding the context of their patients, and adapt to the
communities they will train in and serve, in the future.

Identify applicants who are self-directed that seek out feedback and
opportunities to learn.

Identify applicants who work well with other residents, patients, and staff
and team members.

Identify applicants who are interested in providing care across the family
medicine professional profile as described in the practice narratives found in
the CFPC's Residency Training Profile.

Identify applicants who can demonstrate attributes highlighted in the CFPC
Skill Dimensions and CanMEDS-FM 2017/2025 roles.

Identify applicants who are eligible for licensure in the province of
Saskatchewan and have an interest in providing primary care to the patients of
Saskatchewan.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team consists of the program and site
leadership, designated faculty and program administrators.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 601 +  
Our program accepts applications from IMGs in the first round of the match.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  
Resource limitations may result in the inability to interview all qualified
candidates.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Demonstrate a high level of achievement in diverse activities and interests. Demonstrate evidence of life and work experience that indicates applicant's ability to adapt to future communities they will train and serve in.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Elective experience in Saskatchewan is encouraged, if possible, but is not significantly weighted in terms of selection criteria for interviews or positions.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  All applicants must complete a Casper exam to be eligible for consideration. The PGME Office has provided programs with guidelines on how scoring can be used for file review and ranking. The FMProC exam is also mandatory for our program. It is for information only and will not be weighted until it is validated further. IMG applicants (and graduates of US osteopathic schools) are required to pass the MCCQE1 and NAC exams.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Demonstrate evidence of varied interests outside of medicine.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Demonstrate evidence of leadership experience.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evaluated for any identified concerns regarding the applicant, as well as exceptional achievements.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstrate evidence of suitability for generalist Family Medicine and experience with rural, remote and underserved populations. Demonstrate evidence of life and work experience that indicates applicant's ability to understand the context of their patients and adapt to future communities they will train and serve in. Evaluated for style.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Demonstrate evidence of suitability for generalist Family Medicine and experience with rural, remote and underserved populations.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Demonstrate evidence of Family Medicine scholarly work experience.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evaluated for indications of difficulty with the academic requirements for a medical degree.   
Other file component(s) |  Candidates are assessed for their willingness to practice in Saskatchewan, as well as their ties to the province.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  Applicants rotate through four 15-20 minute interviews conducted by
faculty and resident interviewers. Interviewers may be from various sites.
Applicants must attend all interview stations to be considered.  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Demonstrate effective collaborative skills.   
Collegiality |  Demonstrate collegiality.   
Communication skills |  Demonstrate effective communication skills.   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrate health advocacy.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrate interest in generalist Family Medicine and/or rural Family Medicine.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrate interest in the University of Saskatchewan's Family Medicine program and experience with rural, remote and underserved populations.   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrate effective leadership skills.   
Professionalism |  Display professional behaviour.   
Scholarly activities |  Demonstrate interest in life long learning.   
Other interview component(s) |  Demonstrate understanding of cultural safety and sensitivity.   
Demonstrate clinical reasoning and effective integration of clinical
information.  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  All interactions with the program, program staff, preceptors, and
residents may be considered in the application and interview process.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  All interactions exhibited outside the interview process with our
program, program staff, preceptors, and residents may also be considered.
Final eligibility for ranking is determined by the selection committee which
has representatives from all sites. A final assessment is made as to whether
the applicant is considered a good overall fit for each site.  
  
Our program strives to be inclusive. All applicants, regardless of gender,
gender identity, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity or religious affiliation,
are encouraged to apply.  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

## North West

If you are looking for a program which offers a comprehensive rural experience
with one-on-one training, then this is the program for you!

We are fortunate to have numerous comprehensive care family physicians and a
variety of specialists providing health care to patients, including FM-OBs,
ERP-FM, FM-palliative, FM-care of elderly, internists, pediatricians, general
and orthopedic surgeons, obstetrician/gynecologists, psychiatrists,
anesthesiologists, emergency medicine physicians and even an ophthalmologist.
All our faculty are excellent teachers and always willing to take on learners.
To complement your comprehensive clinical care experience in the academic
teaching unit, you will spend many shifts in your second year working in the
Emergency Department which routinely manages high acuity cases, and in your
second year, you will be on call overnight in the hospital which will involve
ER work and specialist consultations, admissions, deliveries or acting as
surgical assist.

Family practice training opportunities span the Northwest part of
Saskatchewan, including the communities of North Battleford, Battleford,
Unity, and Meadow Lake.  Our program also offers hospitalist or Acute Care
Team (ACT) rotations, providing a chance to care for more complex patients
within the hospital setting. If you want more exposure to a particular area of
medicine during your training, this can be accommodated. More remote rural
rotations also take place in your second year of training, and there is
adequate time for electives allowing you to visit new geographic regions while
expanding your knowledge in your specific areas of interest.

Staying connected to your home base while training is easy, you spend up to 42
of 52 weeks in your first-year, 34 of 52 in your second-year, training in The
Battlefords.  An integrated schedule, provides learning in an environment
consistent with practice and allows for flexibility in scheduling, creating
space to be with friends and family when they need you most. RDoS ensures that
both learning, and you and your family’s wellness is supported throughout your
training. Rural and supplemental training sites sponsor accommodations, so
only pay for one residence.  You will be responsible for accommodations when
on electives if you decide to go out of town or province. At Northwest there
is very short distance commuting and no parking hassles. You will learn in a
collegial team environment while becoming a skilled, knowledgeable, and
competent physician.

The Battlefords encompasses the City of North Battleford and town of
Battleford with a collective population of approximately 19,500 people. We
also service a large patient population from surrounding communities. The
Battleford Union Hospital is at the centre of the city and boasts CT scanning
facilities, an ICU and a dialysis unit. We are fortunate to serve a wide
variety of patients from diverse cultural backgrounds.

North Battleford is privileged to be situated along the North Saskatchewan
River which is great for kayaking or hiking. Centennial Park, a 90 acre park
in the centre of the city, features a track, ball diamonds, tennis course, a
skateboard park, and lawn bowling. The town also has a large recreational
centre with a swimming pool and running track. There are multiple lakes and
parks in close proximity – enticing for those who enjoy the outdoors. In the
winter, the City of North Battleford grooms 1.8km of trails for cross-country
or skate skiing. For the skiers or snowboarders among you, Table Mountain
Regional Park is Saskatchewan’s winter playground and only 20 minutes from the
Battlefords. If you feel the urge to spend a day in the “big city”, Saskatoon
is only an hour and a half away and has an international airport.

We look forward to welcoming you to our rural Family Medicine residency
program!

To see more about our program and North Battleford (North West), please check
out the video at this link:

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vL2NVxI8ryo>

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

## **North West Curriculum**

**R1 Rotations:**

**  
** Family Medicine Schedule  
Orientation - 2 weeks

FM/Care of Elderly/Addictions - 6 weeks (integrated)

Rural FM/ER/Rural Hospital Medicine - 4 weeks (integrated)

Family Medicine - 4 weeks

Obstetrics - 6 weeks

Internal Medicine/CTU - 4 weeks

General Surgery - 2 weeks

Pediatrics - 3 weeks

Pediatrics ER - 2 weeks

Psychiatry - 2 weeks

MSK - 1 week

Anesthesia - 1 week

Emergency Medicine - 3 weeks

Palliative Care - 2 weeks

Rural Hospital Medicine - 4 weeks

Elective - 4 weeks

**R2 Rotations:**

FM – 19 weeks (longitudinal, including ER and hospital work when on call)  
Rural Hospitalist Medicine - 4 weeks  
Elective – 5 weeks  
Tertiary Centre Pediatric Experience - 2 weeks  
Tertiary Centre Obstetrical Experience - 4 weeks  
FM Rural (4 week & 8 week) - 12 weeks  
Emergency Medicine - 4 weeks  
Exam week

**Experiences:  
**The North West program covers a large geographic area with multiple
comprehensive family practice sites and integrates extensive emergency care
exposure through-out your training.

## **Unique features of  North West site: **

  * Learn in a combined integrated and block schedule with an immersive training environment. The North West FM training program was designed with an integrated learning schedule combined with block rotations that captures the essence of a family physician’s work life. Advantages to you are the obvious, but also include; schedule flexibility, to schedule in “life” along with learning; the capacity to schedule your time to focus on areas of development and interest when other competencies have been met; and the opportunity of developing learning habits with practical application throughout your career. Successful completion of our 2year program assures competency to meet your responsibilities as a rural family physician. 
  * Join the NW Primary Health Care team and learn from a supportive engaged faculty, in a people-centred, accountable, non-service based, environment. Gain many hours of emergency room, acute care, and primary care training. Participate in ultrasound courses and simulation training alongside faculty re-certifying, both with on-site instructors. The family medicine teaching unit is housed in a patient medical home. You will feel like the healthcare delivery in our small city was designed specifically for your learning needs.
  * If you are self-directed, committed to medicine and health, interested in full scope general practice, and welcoming of support and feedback, then NW might be the ideal program for you. If you want to advance your skills in indigenous health, if you work well in tight knit teams, and you are comfortable in a rural setting, you will thrive in this program.
  * The NW team is a diverse group of individuals from all over the planet who work collegially to provide up to date, evidenced based care to a population with significant disease burden. On average the community retains one to two residents a year. Consider NW for your training, you will be happy that you did. 
  * We approach social accountability by supporting our residents with skills and lessons to enhance their understanding and abilities. While training at North West you will have the opportunity to work with many Indigenous and New to Canada individuals.   It is our goal to provide exceptional learning and support to you as you develop your skills in caring for diverse groups.  

**Rural or Urban, time spent in the other environment:  
**R1 – 4 weeks in Unity or Meadow Lake, 4 weeks in Saskatoon for Internal
Medicine, 2 weeks in Saskatoon for Pediatrics ER  
R2 – 2 weeks Pediatrics in Saskatoon, 4 weeks Obstetrics in Prince Albert, 8
weeks Rural in one of our rural sites, 4 weeks in Unity

**Number of Residents**

Total Number of Family Medicine Residents on site: 10 (will be 12 in 2025)

2024 Quota: 5 CMG, 1 Competitive

**Additional Learners on Site**

Large range of undergraduate learners; 1 -18 learners per year. Learners are
placed in varied locations across site.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Site name:****  
**North West Family Medicine Residency Program

**Training sites:****  
**North Battleford, Unity, Saskatoon, Prince Albert, Meadow Lake, Ile-a-la-
Crosse, Rosthern, Weyburn

**Size of community and catchment area:****  
**North Battleford: population 13,800  
Battleford: population 4,000  
Unity: population 2,500  
Saskatoon: population 282,900

Prince Albert: population 36,000

Meadow Lake: population 4,500

Ile-a-la-Crosse: population 1,400

Rosthern: population 1,400

Weyburn: population 12,200

* * *

# Additional Information

**North  West:**

  1. Faculty members that are diverse in age, training, and interests.
  2. Collegial faculty that create a supportive, non-competitive team environment.
  3. Learner to faculty ratio = 1:1
  4. Very little commute (driver's license required).
  5. Feel like health care delivery in the small city was designed around your learning needs.
  6. Family Medicine teaching unit is located in a Patient Medical Home.
  7. Strong CFPC certification success rate.
  8. Combination of integrated and block scheduling that allows the best learning environment for residents.
  9. Extensive learning in emergency room setting with supportive FP and ERP support.
  10. Accessible recreation within city limits and/or 30 minutes driving distance.
  11. Travel/vacation - major divided Highway(16) stretching East and West from the Battleford’s, taking you to Saskatoon or Edmonton for a more metropolitan break, or fly to a far-off destination from either of their international airports.

**Connect with us on social media!**  
Facebook: [@usaskfamilymed](https://www.facebook.com/usaskfamilymed)  
Instagram: [@usaskfamilymed](https://www.instagram.com/usaskfamilymed/)

* * *

# FAQ

### **What types of training sites are offered through the University of
Saskatchewan?**

The University of Saskatchewan’s Department of Family Medicine is distributed
into 8 unique sites throughout the province. These postgraduate training sites
are designated as Urban, Regional, Rural or Northern.

  * **Urban** : A community with at least one Provincial Hospital (Regina and Saskatoon)
  * **Regional** : A community with health services that include a regional hospital
  * **Rural** : A community with health services that include a community or district hospital or other facility (Integrated Health Facility, Collaborative Emergency Centre).
  * **Northern** : A community situated in the Northern Saskatchewan Administrative District

Prospective residents are encouraged to attend virtual information sessions to
learn more about the various programs offered at each unique site:

  * La Ronge - Rural/Northern
  * Moose Jaw – Regional
  * North West – Regional/Rural
  * Prince Albert - Regional/Rural
  * Regina – Urban
  * Saskatoon - Urban
  * South East – Rural
  * Swift Current – Regional



### **What application streams are available through the University of
Saskatchewan?**

All sites have two streams (CMG and competitive) except La Ronge (competitive
only). Canadian and US allopathic medical school graduates are encouraged to
apply to both streams. IMGs including graduates from US osteopathic schools
may apply to the competitive stream of each site.



### What is the ratio of CMGs to IMGs matched to the University of
Saskatchewan Family Medicine Program?

Over the past 3 years, the ratio of CMGs to IMGs matched to the University of
Saskatchewan’s Family Medicine Program has been nearly equal. IMGs have
consistently made up close to 50% of the matched residents in the program.
This balanced representation ensures a diverse and inclusive training
environment where IMGs can find peer support and camaraderie throughout their
residency experience.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27346?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27346