#  McMaster University - Public Health and Preventive Medicine including
Family Medicine - Hamilton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Matthew Hodge  

Address Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact  
David Braley Health Sciences Centre  
MHC 2006 - 100 Main St W  
Hamilton, Ontario, L8P 1H6  

Work  905-525-9140, ext. 22356

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Public Health & Preventive Medicine
](https://healthsci.mcmaster.ca/hei-phpm)  
[ Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact (HEI)
](http://hei.mcmaster.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Caitlin Gurman

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: gurmanc@mcmaster.ca

Phone: 905-525-9140 ext 22356

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/). All applicants are advised to read
these requirements prior to submitting their application

To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit:
<https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/>

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

The McMaster Public Health & Preventive Medicine program has training
partnerships with public health services in Hamilton, Waterloo, and Niagara,
as well as with Public Health Ontario. Residents also have the opportunity to
complete rotations in governmental health agencies and other organizations in
the province. These placements offer a wide variety of experiences at
different levels of government and in different sized communities, all with
unique population health needs and opportunities. Residents are thus offered
varied and challenging paths to reach their career objectives.

Residents will apply to a graduate program relevant to PHPM, such as the
Master of Public Health or Health Research Methodology program at McMaster,
and must meet the requirements of the graduate program. Candidates entering
the program with prior academic training, typically a graduate degree relevant
to public health, may be eligible to receive some credit from the Royal
College for this prior training.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Reference letters that speak directly to your interest in and aptitude for
Public Health & Preventive Medicine practice are most influential with the
Selection Committee. Reference letters from McMaster or the McMaster PHPM
program faculty are not mandatory.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

The Program seeks physicians interested in specializing in public health and
preventive medicine who will develop competencies enabling them to improve the
health of populations, respond to public health emergencies, and guide the use
of health resources to improve population health.  
  
Please ensure that your personal letter (maximum 1,000 words and in paragraph
format) addresses the following questions and themes. If you have had gaps or
extensions greater than one month in your pre-residency training, please also
identify and contextualize those aspects of your training journey in a
separate section of up to 500 words.

The personal letter plays a significant part in selecting applicants for
interviews. Different from medical school application, applying to residency
is fundamentally applying for a job. As a result, choosing not to answer these
questions or submitting a generic letter about your goals as a physician, or
why you will be a good doctor, will significantly reduce your chances of being
offered an interview.  
  
1) Using one or more specific experiences from your life to date, please
describe why you are choosing PHPM and why McMaster.  
  
2) PHPM residency training will involve your mastering a discipline
incorporating understanding and intervening with both individual patients and
populations. How do you envision shifting from the role of a physician for
individual patients to one attending to populations?  
  
3) Define one or more i) personal and ii) career goals and explain how PHPM
training advances you to achieving those goals?  
  
4) What challenges will you face in this residency training program and what
experiences and strategies from your life to date will be be important in
navigating those challenges?



Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Graduate Transcript (Master/PhD Degree)

If you have completed a graduate degree, please upload your transcript.
**Note** : applicants do not need to have completed a graduate degree to
apply.

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

The program requires residents to complete a graduate degree related to the
specialty and in adherence with the Royal College's objectives of training.
The undergraduate transcript provides information that may be relevant to
assessing a candidate's ability to complete graduate training.

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

The program director will review applications with the Selection Committee and
candidates who have submitted a complete application and meet the interview
selection criteria will be selected for an interview.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 6, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Virtual interviews will be conducted on
Thursday, February 6, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Our virtual interview process
involves a set of interviews with teams of faculty and residents. If selected
for an interview, you will receive an information package with the invitation.
The package will provide greater details about what to expect during the
interview process.  
  
Adjustments may be made to assist a candidate who has an unresolvable conflict
with this schedule. Requests for other dates will be reviewed on a case-by-
case basis.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The Public Health & Preventive Medicine program at McMaster assesses
candidates on the following criteria (these are not listed in order of
priority):

1\. Understanding of, Public Health & Preventive Medicine;

2\. Academic performance;

3\. Sufficient academic ability to be admitted to and complete Master's level
training relevant to PH&PM;

4\. Suitability for clinical practice or Family Medicine;

5\. Oral and written communication skills;

6\. Potential contribution to McMaster's program; and

7\. Potential impact as a Public Health & Preventive Medicine practitioner.

## Program goals

The McMaster PHPM program is focused on training physicians in the tools and
approaches for protecting and promoting population health. The program seeks
to prepare physicians to function flexibly and effectively in leadership roles
in a wide variety of public health and academic/research settings. Residents
participate in a combination of block rotations and longitudinal activities.
All residents are supported to complete a Master's degree with a primary focus
on the tools and methods of public health practise including epidemiology &
biostatistics,health protection and promotion, theories of change, leadership
and management within organizations.

## Selection process goals

Successful appliacnts will typically demonstrate:

1\. Understanding of Public Health & Preventive Medicine (PHPM) and how it is
distinct from and related to patient-focused medical disciplines and
specialties;

2\. Suitability for both clinical practice & PHPM practice, including evidence
of use of ethical and other frameworks for decision-making;

3\. Oral and written communication skills relevant to clinical practice and
PHPM practice;

4\. Qualitative and quantitative skills relevant to PHPM practice, including
such aspects as epidemiology and biostatistics knowledge commensurate with
completion of undergraduate medical training, critical appraisal and
literature interpretation skills, and ways of managing interpersonal conlfict
and managing teams.

## File review process

Review team composition : Each team consists of one faculty member and one
resident.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Selection Criteria: 1,4,6,7   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Selection Criteria: 1,4   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Selection Criteria: 6,7   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Selection Criteria: 6,7   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Selection Criteria: 2,3,4   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Selection Criteria: 1,4,5,6   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Selection Criteria: 1,4,7   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Selection Criteria: 2,3   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Selection Criteria: 2,3,4   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted
candidates' opportunities to arrange and complete electives and would like to
reassure you that a lack of elective activity should not deter you from
applying.. A learning experience in the specialty is preferred but not
required. All applicants are expected to demonstrate some understanding of the
principles and scope of PHPM practice, regardless of the number of electives
in the specialty

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Selection Criteria: 4,6,7   
Collegiality |  Selection Criteria: 4,6,7   
Communication skills |  Selection Criteria: 5   
Health advocacy |  Selection Criteria: 4,6,7   
Interest in the discipline |  Selection Criteria: 1,4,6   
Interest in the program |  Selection Criteria: 1,4,6   
Leadership skills |  Selection Criteria: 4,6,7   
Professionalism |  Selection Criteria: 4,6,7   
Scholarly activities |  Selection Criteria: 2,3,4,6   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  If your CV lists publications or these are included in your
application, you may be asked questions about these during your interview.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**The Mission of McMaster's Program is found below:**

McMaster's Public Health & Preventive Medicine Residency Program aspires to
improve and safeguard the health of the public. The Residency Program will
promote, attract and support trainees in their pursuit of the highest quality
education based on the principles of population health, including disease
prevention, health promotion and protection. This academic and community-based
program will prepare physicians to function flexibly and effectively in
leadership roles in a wide variety of public health and/or academic/research
settings with special emphasis on:

  * Health needs assessment
  * Evidence-based community health practice
  * Applied research and program evaluation
  * Economic evaluation and health policy analysis
  * Occupational and environmental health

McMaster's Program is an integrated approach to training with a minimum of:

1 year of clinical training

1 year of academic work in public health

18 months of public health field placements

Residents are strongly encouraged to complete Family Medicine certification as
part of their training.

All residents must fulfill the requirement for 12 months of academic work.
Options at McMaster include:

  * Master of Public Health (MPH)
  * Masters program in Health Research Methodology (HRM) 

1) The MPH program is a course-based masters that offers the option of
completing a practicum- or thesis-based MPH. Area of focus include policy and
management, public health research and environmental health;

2) The HRM program offers both thesis and non-thesis streams; the non-thesis
approach is recommended by the program in order to facilitate meeting core
Royal College objectives. Courses are available in biostatistics, research and
epidemiologic methods, health policy, and economic evaluation, among others.



**Typical course of training**

McMaster's integrated approach to training is designed to accommodate the
components of Family Medicine, the MPH or HRM masters programs, and PHPM field
placements.  
  
Residents who choose not to pursue Family Medicine will complete a basic
clinical training (BCT) year, with additional field placements in PHPM or
academic course work related to their field of interest, to ensure Royal
College objectives are met.

  
  

**PGY-1**

This year focuses on the basic clinical rotations required by both the Royal
College and Family Medicine, and is largely hospital-based. One month of the
PGY 1 year is spent on an Introduction to Public Health in order to orient
residents to the available PHPM resources in the community, build connections
to the program faculty and residents, and begin preparations for applying to
graduate studies.

**PGY-2 and 3**

Residents complete both Family Medicine training and certification and
coursework required for their masters degree (MPH/HRM). McMaster University
offers options for additional training in occupational medicine and other
areas of expertise.

**PGY-4 and 5**

By this time, residents will have completed training & certification in Family
Medicine as well as their masters program (MPH/HRM) and will now apply their
knowledge during senior rotations in PHPM, culminating in the Royal College
exams at the end of year five.

**Academic Half Days**

Residents spend one half-day per week participating in the program's academic
half-day (AHD). AHD includes guest speakers, resident-led rounds, and journal
club. Residents pursuing Family Medicine certification participate in the
Family Medicine Academic Half Days in lieu of the PHPM Half Days for parts of
PGY-2 and 3. Also available to residents are a wealth of rounds and seminars
in other departments within the Faculty of Health Sciences relevant to PHPM
practice. The Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact,
which houses and sponsors the program, hosts an annual research day with
student and faculty participation.

**Research**

All residents are expected to gain a reasonable understanding of the
principles of research, through both coursework and field placements.
Residents who pursue the HRM program complete a Research Internship. Those who
pursue the thesis option must fulfill the research requirements set out by the
HRM program. Residents who pursue the MPH program can choose between writing a
thesis or completing a four month practicum (including a capstone paper).
Residents who wish to have more hands-on experience with research will find
numerous opportunities throughout their training.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

**Resources (both urban and rural)**** **

The Public Health & Preventive Medicine residents at McMaster are able to
access a diverse range of sites for clinical and field placements during their
training, including:

Hamilton Public Health Services

Niagara Region Public Health

Region of Waterloo Public Health

Halton Region Public Health

Public Health Ontario

Office of the Chief Medical Officer of Health, Province of Ontario

Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact, McMaster
University

Master of Public Health Graduate Program affiliated with the Department of
Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact, McMaster University

HRM Graduate Program affiliated with the Department of Health Research
Methods, Evidence, and Impact, McMaster University

Department of Family Medicine, McMaster University

Family Medicine Teaching Sites

McMaster's Institute for Health Equity (MIHE)

McMaster's Centre for Health Economics and Policy Analysis

Ontario Health Clinic for Ontario Workers (OHCOW)



* * *

# Additional Information

McMaster University's Public Health & Preventive Medicine residency program
joins a vibrant resident community and dedicated public health specialists,
offering both urban and rural rotation sites within driving distance of
Hamilton. As adult-learners, faculty strive to foster life-long learning
through active participation in academic half days. Guided by the Royal
College objectives, the program is flexible to meet the learning objectives of
individual residents and responsive to residents' needs.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27103?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27103