#  University of Manitoba - Pediatrics - Winnipeg  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 9

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Jayson Stoffman  
Dr. Megan Cooney  

Address Pediatric Postgraduate Medical Education  
Max Rady College of Medicine  
HSC AE405-840 Sherbrook Street  
Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3A 1S1  

Work  (204) 787-2439

Fax

Websites of Interest [ University of Manitoba Peds Residency Program
](http://umanitoba.ca/faculties/medicine/units/pediatrics/postgraduate/index.html)  
[ Department of Pediatrics & Child Health ](https://mbpedchildhealth.ca/for-
learners/pediatric-medicine-residency-pgme/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Jayson Stoffman

Title: Pediatric Program Director

Email: jstoffman@hsc.mb.ca

Phone: 204-787-2439

  

Name: Dr. Megan Cooney

Title: Pediatric Associate Program Director

Email: mcooney@exchange.hsc.mb.ca

Phone: 204-787-2439

  

Name: Jaskiran Sandha

Title: Pediatric Assistant Program Director

Email: jsandha@hsc.mb.ca

Phone: 204-787-2439

  

Name: Brandy Currie

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: pgme_peds@hsc.mb.ca

Phone: 204-787-2439

  

Name: Carly Sutherland

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: pgme_peds@hsc.mb.ca

Phone: 204-787-4008

  

* * *

# Important Information

The Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation which will be held on **June
26, 2025**  is mandatory for all residents.

The Pediatric Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation will be held on
**June 27, 2025**.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

You are required to fulfill ALL of the most current Provincial Criteria for
Canadian Medical Graduates for Manitoba

The criteria can be found at:  <https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three (3) reference letters are required. Your three references should be from
medical faculty members or from practicing physicians (not residents or
fellows) with whom you have had significant and preferably direct work-related
contact.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  600

  

In lieu of a personal letter please answer the following 2 questions:

#1. Why do you want to complete residency in our residency program? Do you
have a connection to Manitoba? What unique attributes and perspectives would
you bring to our community and residency program? Do you belong to a community
or come from a background that has not traditionally been represented in
medicine? (Approx. 300 words)

#2. The United Nation Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous People provides
a broad framework for reconciliation at all levels and across all sectors of
society. How have you seen anti-Indigenous racism operationalized in the
medical education or health care system?  What is your role and what are your
responsibilities on the path to Indigenous reconciliation? (Approx. 300 words)

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

The University of Manitoba Pediatric Residency Program requires your
undergraduate transcript.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applicants selected for interviews will be contacted by email to arrange a
virtual interview.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 27, 2025
  * January 28, 2025
  * January 29, 2025
  * January 30, 2025
  * January 31, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be offered to those
applicants considered most suitable for the residency program based on the
submitted package. Our program will notify all applicants of their status as:
selected to interview, on waitlist for an interview, not selected for an
interview. Applicants on the waitlist will be notified if and when interview
spaces become available  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: A maximum of 75 applicants (64
Canadian Medical Graduates and 11 International Medical Graduates) will be
interviewed.  All interviews will be virtual. The interview process will last
90 minutes.  Applicants will have three individual interviews, one with the
program director, one with the associate program director and one with a lead
resident. There will also be time to meet virtually with a group of residents
to have questions answered.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

The University of Manitoba is committed to the social justice principles of
equity, access & participation and to promoting opportunities for systemically
marginalized groups who have been excluded from full participation at the
University and the larger community including Indigenous, Black, racially
marginalized Peoples, persons with disabilities and those who identify as
2SLGBTQIA+ (Two Spirit, lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, questioning, intersex,
asexual and other diverse sexual identities) and women.

Our residents will develop the academic skills, clinical skills and knowledge
required to excel as general pediatricians who are capable of managing
medically and socially complex children and adolescents. They will utilize
their medical expertise within a model of patient-centered care and become
proficient with shared decision making in medically and socially complex
situations. They will develop a comprehensive understanding of the social
determinants of health and wellness though exposure to urban, rural,
immigrant, refugee, Aboriginal and Inuit populations. They will become
effective advocates for their patients, community and profession.

## Selection process goals

1\. Demonstrated ability to commnicate and work with patients and colleagues
from diverse backgrounds.

2\. Committed to providing anti-racist and culturally safe health care to
Indiginous people and other marginalized groups.

3\. Demonstrated ability to function well within a multidisciplinary
healthcare team with a strong work ethic.

4\. Interest in scholarly activity, either through previous experience or a
desire to participate in scholarly activity.



An inclusive, open and diverse community is essential to excellence and
fosters voices that have been ignored or discouraged. To address the Rady
Faculty of Health Sciences commitment to equity, access and participation, and
in recognition of the underrepresentation of members of historically and
currently excluded groups, our program has taken the following proactive
measures as part of our selection process: implicit bias training for all
selection committee members, diverse representation of selection committee
members, inclusion of interview questions targeted to assess applicant
recognition of and commitment to EDIA.

  
We strive for diverse perspectives and cultural safety throughout the hiring
process (resident selection committees, short-list of applicants, interviews).
The directions for our Personal Letter encourage applicants to self-identify
whether they belong to a group that is traditionally underrepresented in
medicine, which encourages all applicants to include an EDIA statement with
evidence demonstrating their own commitment to EDIA in their work and training
thus far.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team is composed of the program director,
associate program director, lead residents and selected faculty members

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We are evaluating the applicant's personal, educational, volunteer and work journey and accomplishments. We are looking to see if all of the applicant's time is accounted for and that absences from work or education are identified and explained.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We are evaluating the applicant's range of experiences in within Pediatrics and related specialties.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We are evaluating the applicant's volunteer activities, with long term and extensive involvement in an activity weighted more favourably than superficial involvement in many activities. If an applicant has not been able to participate, or has had limited participation, in extra-curricular activities due to social or life circumstances the applicant should include this in their response to Question #1 of the personal letter. This will be factored in to how this element is scored in file review. We are also evaluating the applicant's non-medical areas of interest and talent.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  We are evaluating the applicant's involvement in leadership roles on committees, organizations, extra-curricular activities or clubs. We are also interested in learning about unique leadership roles and experiences that the applicant may have had in their family or past employment or education.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  We are evaluating the MSPR for overall weakness and strengths of the applicant during their time in medical school.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  We are evaluating the applicant's interest and motivation in completing residency in Manitoba through their knowledge of our program, knowledge of Manitoba and connection to Manitoba. We are evaluating if the applicant is from a group or community or background that is underrepresented in medicine. We are also evaluating what unique experiences and perspectives the applicant would bring to our program and community. We are evaluating the applicant's knowledge and understanding of Indigenous health issues, including the role of anti-Indigenous racism in Canadian medical education and health care.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  We are evaluating the referees' assessment of the applicant's aptitude, medical expertise, communication skills, ability to work in a team environment and work ethic.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We are evaluating past experiences in research and academic scholarship, current projects and interest in future projects. If an applicant has not been able to participate, or has had limited participation, in research or scholarly activities due to social or life circumstances the applicant should include this in their response to Question #1 of the personal letter. This will be factored in to how this element is scored in file review. Significant contributions to a project will be weighted more favourably than minor contributions.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We do not evaluate this file component. However, this file component is required by the University of Manitoba   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We are evaluating the applicant's ability to work well with individuals from diverse backgrounds and collaborate with families and colleagues in medical decisions   
Collegiality |  We are evaluating if the applicant demonstrates professional and respectful behaviour. The applicant should value and consider the perspectives and opinions of others.   
Communication skills |  We are evaluating the applicant's verbal and non-verbal communication skills. The ability to speak and write in English is mandatory. The ability to communicate in other languages is weighted favourably.   
Health advocacy |  We are evaluating the applicant's interest and experience in health advocacy, including their ideas for advocacy initiatives.   
Interest in the discipline |  We are evaluating the applicant's interest and commitment to Pediatrics. We are interested in learning how the applicant sees themselves contributing to the health of children.   
Interest in the program |  We are evaluating the applicant's knowledge of our program and province and their interest in living in Winnipeg. We are interested in learning how the applicant sees themselves fitting into our program.   
Leadership skills |  We are evaluating the applicant's skills to lead by example with strong communication, collaboration and delegation skills. We are evaluating if the applicant has leadership experience and how the applicant has learned from past experience. We are also interested in learning about unique leadership roles and experiences that the applicant may have had in their family or past employment or education.   
Professionalism |  We are evaluating the applicant's professional interactions with interviewers, faculty, residents, other interviewees and program assistants.   
Scholarly activities |  We are evaluating the applicant's past scholarly activities and interest in future scholarly activities .   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  We will consider unsolicited verbal or email feedback on clinical
performance received after file submission  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  Interviewers’ consensus that applicant would be a poor fit for the
program  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Quick Facts**

  * We low-key have the best residents in the country! Seriously. Watch our [video](https://media1.cc.umanitoba.ca/legacy/bann/peds/peds_2020_11_05_CHRP_endtag.mp4). 

  * Winnipeg Children's Hospital offers very diverse clinical exposure with a vast catchment area including all of Manitoba, Eastern Saskatchewan, the Kivalliq Region of Nunavut and Northwestern Ontario.  Residents have opportunities to work with patients from a variety of ethnic populations and receive significant clinical exposure to urban, rural, immigrant, refugee, Aboriginal and Inuit pediatric health. Residents can expect to see a wide variety of patients with unusual pathology.

  * Residents are provided experiences in rural and northern pediatrics through rotations in Brandon and Thompson, Manitoba. In addition, residents are provided opportunities to accompany pediatricians who travel to remote communities within northern Manitoba and Nunavut through Ongomiizwin – Health Services.

  * Residents are allowed one outside elective per core residency year and three outside electives during the fourth year. Outside electives may be arranged at other universities within Canada or may be international in nature.

  * With few subspecialty trainees at our site, residents receive plenty of hands-on exposure with consultations and development of procedural skills. Residents are confident and ready to transition to senior by the end of first year. We have a senior skills rotation for residents looking to develop advanced procedural skills training. 

  * The program has an academic teaching curriculum which provides a standardized curriculum over a three-year period. This curriculum is aimed at meeting the Royal College objectives of training in all CanMEDS competencies, with complementary teaching provided at other protected times as well.

  * There are 6 hours of protected time per week. This includes academic half day, morning report, grand rounds and resident led teaching.

  * Residents participate monthly in Ice Cream Rounds that focus on discussing and processing difficult situations that have been encountered during residency as well as learning to adapt to adversity and improving resiliency. These rounds are resident led with mentorship from faculty trained and experienced in physician wellness. These rounds are protected educational time. 

  * To develop the competency of leading a resuscitation team, frequent mock codes are scheduled throughout the training program. These will occur regularly for residents on rotations in the CTU, PICU, or ER. Residents will also be assigned to multiyear groups for mock codes in the Clinical Learning and Simulation Facility on a rotating weekly basis.

  * Wards (aside from Oncology) are designated as general pediatrics with subspecialty consultants. This provides continuous exposure to patients from every subspecialty, all of which are represented at our university.

  * Each summer we host a dedicated Physical Exam Boot Camp with weekly sessions designed to enhance physical examination skills for the first-year residents. These sessions are taught by faculty members.

  * A protected Academic Skills rotation occurs simultaneously for all first-year residents.  This rotation provides dedicated time for acquisition of research and teaching skills and consists of a variety of session types, including small-group discussions, role-playing and didactic sessions. This rotation also provides interaction with a variety of faculty members and gives residents the opportunity to be introduced to faculty with shared academic and research interests.

  * Transitioning to the senior role occurs near the end of the first year, with a Transition-To-Senior Workshop and buddied CTU Senior and Night Float rotations.  

  * Third-year residents are required to develop and participate in a collaborative health advocacy project with a local, national, or international perspective. This project has received accolades from the Royal College as a Top 5 What Works in residency education. Previous projects have included successful lobbying for restricting tanning salons to minors, booster seat legislation, and promoting literacy and bicycle helmets.

  * Third and fourth year general pediatric residents take part in an office-based weekly continuity clinic.  

  * Dedicated senior-level teaching occurs weekly at Morning Report through a case-based discussion led by a faculty preceptor. This is protected academic time.

  * Incoming residents are matched with three mentors, including a resident mentor, a faculty mentor and a research mentor. These mentors are actively involved through the residency years.

  * Residents have 4 weeks of vacation per year. This can be scheduled flexibly as 1, 2, or 4 week blocks. 

**In Their Words**

"I could not imagine being a resident without this group of such genuine,
supportive and passionate colleagues and faculty helping me along the way to
becoming a well-qualified Pediatrician." -PGY4

"The very welcoming and friendly resident and faculty body contributes to a
highly supportive, smaller-centre feel while working in a centre that sees a
wide diversity of patients will all subspecialties represented." -PGY1

"I doubt there's another pediatric program in Canada that would have given me
the same diversity of patients and firsthand experiences than this one!" -PGY3

"Unique and large patient population with a plethora of rare and unique
diseases" -PGY2

"The program directors are outstanding in every sense of the word" -Program
director

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**General Description**

The Program design fulfills the Specialty Training Requirements in Pediatrics
from the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada (RCPSC). Since
July 2021 our program has delivered a Competence By Design (CBD) curriculum to
residents at all stages of training.

The Pediatric Residency Program provides the resident a choice in training
experience selection each training year. Residents are provided with at least
one elective training experience each year which can be a program selective or
elective, an outside elective or a research elective.  Residents are required
to undertake a minimum of six weeks in rural pediatrics during their core
stage of training. This includes a two-week rotation in Brandon, Manitoba and
a four-week rotation in Thompson, Manitoba.

Overnight and weekend call occurs throughout all four years. Senior call is
predominantly covered by senior residents on their night float rotations. The
majority of junior overnight call is provided by the pediatric and off-service
learners on their CTU rotations. Residents rotating through the PICU cover
50-75% of PICU calls. All remaining calls are assigned to off-service
pediatric residents who have completed at least one PICU block in the core
stage of training.

The University of Manitoba program is committed to providing excellent
educational opportunities spanning all seven CanMEDS compentencies.  With an
early transition-to-senior process, more time is available for teaching and
supervisory experiences. A close collaboration with faculty is fostered and
encouraged.  

### Transition to Discipline (Anticipated 10 to 12 weeks)

The purpose of Transition to Discipline is confirm knowledge and skills
achieved in medical school and to orient the trainee to the speciality of
Pediatrics, our training program, the University of Manitoba and Children's
Hospital. The focus of Transition of Discipline is successful achievement in
conducting a Pediatric specific history and physical exam and communicating
patient centred care plans.

Training Experiences May Include:

  * CTU Pediatrics as a Junior Resident 
  * Emergency Pediatrics 
  * Community-Based Pediatrics - urban
  * Social Ambulatory-Based Pediatrics
  * Selective (Allergy, Endocrinology, Infectious Disease, Gastroenterology)
  * Junior Call 



### **Foundations (Anticipated 36-38 weeks)**

The purpose of Foundations is to gain experience with common pediatric
presenting issues and diagnoses  across the full range of ages seen in
pediatric medicine. The focus of Foundations is to perform patient assessments
and to develop, initiate and document management plans for common
straightforward presenting issues across the spectrum of pediatric ages.
Foundations also includes providing preventative health care and performing
basic proceedures.  

**Training Experiences Include:**

  * CTU as Junior Resident 
  * CTU as Transition to Senior Resident 
  * Neonatology 
  * Emergency Pediatrics*
  * Community-Based Pediatrics - Urban*
  * Social Ambulatory-Based Pediatrics*
  * Academic Skills Rotation**
  * Selective (Allergy, Cardiology, Endocrinology, Gastroenterology, Genetics and Metabolics, Infectious Disease, Respirology)
  * Elective
  * Night Float***
  * Junior Call 

*If not previously completed in Transition to Discipline

**This 4 week academic skills course occurs simultaneously for all residents
in Foundations and provides residents with a strong background in research and
teaching skills

***During this 2 week night float training experience the resident will be in
the senior resident role. The resident will do several buddied call shifts
before transitioning to independent senior for the completion of the rotation  

### Core (Anticipated 96 to 108 weeks)

The purpose of core is to continue to develop and strengthen the skills
necessary to practice as a competent consultant pediatrician. The focus of
this stage is to gain experience and skill performing patient assessment and
management of complex and rare pediatric presentations. This includes
patients in the ambulatory and hospital settings across the range of pediatric
ages, including patients who are acutely critically ill. This stage also
focuses on providing longitudinal patient management experience as well as
development of communication skills for difficult and sensitive issues
including mental health concerns, behavioral issues, concerns related to child
maltreatment and goals of care discussions.

Training Experiences Include:

  * CTU Pediatrics as the Senior Resident*
  * Neonatology**
  * Pediatric Intensive Care**
  * Community-Based Pediatrics - Rural (Brandon and Thompson Manitoba)
  * Social Ambulatory-Based Pediatrics 
  * Emergency Pediatrics**
  * Adolescent Medicine and Child Psychiatry
  * Developmental Pediatrics
  * Child Maltreatment and Child Psychiatry
  * Selective (Allergy, Cardiology, Complex Care, Endocrinology, Hematology and Oncology, Gastroenterology, Genetics and Metabolics, Infectious Disease, Nephrology, Neurology, Palliative Care, Respirology, Rheumatology)
  * Continuity Clinic 
  * Elective***
  * Night Float**
  * Senior Call  

*16 weeks total in Core

**8 weeks total in Core

***12 weeks total in Core

### Transition To Practice (Anticipated 36 to 48 weeks)

The purpose of Transition to Practice is for residents to consolidate their
pediatric knowledge and enhance their skills as they prepare to enter
independent practice in general pediatrics or a pediatric subspecialty. The
focus of this stage is for residents to apply their knowledge and skills to
provide comprehesive care in episodic and longitudinal settings. This stage
also includes refining communication skills and developing practice management
and leadership skills.

**Training Experiences Include:**

  * CTU Pediatrics Junior Attending
  * Inpatient Complex Care 
  * Developmental Pediatrics
  * Neonatology
  * Community-Based Pediatrics
  * Continuity Clinic 
  * Electives
  * Senior Call 

With the exception of Senior Call, all non-elective training experiences are
4-weeks in total.

### **Educational**

Residents have a three-hour weekly academic half-day that is protected
educational time with mandatory attendance.  Academic half-day is organized to
provide a standardized curriculum on core general and subspecialty pediatrics
topics rotating over a three-year basis.  The academic half-day curriculum
also includes ethics, evidence-based medicine, and palliative care, in
addition to other non-Medical Expert CanMEDS roles.  Academic half-day
sessions are delivered in a facilitated interactive small group model, where
resident groups of 8-10 engage actively in usually case-based discussion of
important topics for general pediatrics guided by the specialist preceptors.  

A specialized Pediatric Indigenous Health curriculum was introduced in 2021.
This was created within the residency program in collaboration with Indigenous
leaders in medical education, and designed as a distributed experience. At the
start of each academic year, there will be one Academic half-day session
dedicated to this topic, with a difference focus for each residency cohort to
allow for a progressive development of experience in a spiral fashion over the
four years of training. Over the rest of the year, there are three hour-long
sessions for the entire pediatric cohort where a specific topic will be
presented didactically, experientially, and finally practically.

Transition to Discipline residents have a special series of academic half-days
for the first two months of residency. This provides an in-depth orientation
to residency.  Transition to Practice residents attend protected group study
time in preparation for the Royal College examination.

Mandatory courses through the Faculty PGME office include topics on Teaching
Development, Practice Management, Professional Boundaries, and Conflict
Management.  Additional courses provided and required by the pediatric
residency program include PALS (Pediatric Advanced Life Support) and NRP
(Neonatal Resuscitation) as well as the choice of either TRIK (Trauma
Resuscitation for Kids) or ATLS (Advanced Trauma Life Support).

Other academic activities include a variety of CTU teaching rounds, pediatric
Grand Rounds (protected educational time), mock codes, simulation sessions and
resident-led seminars (protected educational time Monday afternoons). Morning
Report occurs weekly for senior residents only (protected educational time)
and involves a resident-led case-based discussion with a faculty preceptor.
An evening journal club is held monthly at the homes of faculty members.

### Wellness

Our residents participate monthly in Ice Cream Rounds (protected educational
time) that focus on discussing and processing difficult situations that have
been encountered during residency as well as learning to adapt to adversity
and improving resiliency. These rounds are resident led with mentorship from
faculty trained and experienced in physician wellness.  

The Pediatric Residency Wellness Council was created in 2021 as a dedicated
forum to discuss important issues pertaining to resident wellness. This is co-
chaired by the Pediatric Lead Residents and the Wellness Lead for the
Department of Pediatrics and Child Health. Designated funding support for
wellness activities is also provided by the Department.

### **Research**

Each resident must complete a scholarly project as part of their residency
training. For many residents, the scholarly project will be a research
project.  Residents in Foundations participate in a dedicated four-week
Academic Skills rotation and thereby receive a separate curriculum providing
an introduction to clinical research with exposure to existing projects and
the development of individual research projects. Critical appraisal is taught
both formally and as part of journal club experiences and mentorship sessions.
A formal research committee, comprised of both clinician scientists and
doctoral researchers, supervises and provides excellent resources as part of
the larger and well-funded Children's Hospital Research Institute of Manitoba.
Additional support in biostatistical counseling is provided to residents from
the Centre of Healthcare Innovation.

In each year of training, residents may choose to have an elective rotation
dedicated to their research project(s). Competitive funding for resident
research projects is awarded from the Children's Hospital Foundation. Resident
progress is supported with Work In Progress (WIP) presentations for feedback
and advice.  Resident research is presented each year at the departmental
research day and at the faculty-wide research symposium. The winner(s) of the
resident research competition will receive funding to attend the National
Pediatric Resident and Fellow Research Competition at which representatives
from each pediatric residency program across Canada take part in the
competition by presenting their completed research projects.

### **Health Advocacy Project**

All residents in the latter half of Core are required to work collaboratively
on a group health advocacy project. The project will be developed by the
residents in response to their own assessment of the health needs of the
children at the level of the local community, the province, the nation, or
internationally. Previous projects have included successful lobbying for
restricting tanning salons for minors, booster seat legislation, and promoting
various advocacy topics such as literacy, influenza vaccination, HPV
vaccination for boys, pain management during venipunctures, and use of bicycle
helmets. Funding is provided by the residency program. Supervision of the
project is provided by faculty members as well as non-faculty committee
leaders. At the end of the academic year, the residents involved present their
project at Pediatric Grand Rounds and at a Manitoba Pediatric Society dinner,
and submit a written report on the outcome of their initiative.

* * *

# Training Sites

The main training site for pediatric residents at the University of Manitoba
is located at the Children's Hospital of Winnipeg, part of the Health Sciences
Centre.  Established in 1909, the Children's Hospital of Winnipeg has grown to
be a 127-bed facility and treats over 130,000 children each year.  Newer
additions include an intensive care building housing the Pediatric Intensive
Care Unit, Emergency Department and surgical suites.  A new state-of-the-art
Women's Hospital opened in 2019 and includes a new Neonatal Intensive Care
Unit.  The Children's Hospital of Winnipeg is the only pediatric hospital in
Manitoba and provides tertiary pediatric care for residents of Manitoba,
Northwestern Ontario, and the Kivalliq Region of Nunavut.

Additional teaching sites in Winnipeg include St. Boniface General Hospital
and various community office sites. Teaching sites outside of Winnipeg include
Brandon General Hospital and Thompson General Hospital.  Residents also have
the opportunity to travel to various remote communities in northern Manitoba
and Nunavut  under the supervision of the pediatricians and pediatric
subspecialists working with Ongomiizwin – Health Services. A more in-depth
elective experience in Iqaluit and the neighbouring communities is also
available.

* * *

# Additional Information

Winnipeg is a mid-sized city of over 770,000 people and offers a community
with a cosmopolitan, international flair. The province of Manitoba has a
population of 1.28 million people.   Winnipeg is a culturally diverse city
with a multi-ethnic population representing one hundred (100) spoken languages
and is known for its cultural achievements, flourishing arts scene, and
numerous art and cultural festivals. Highlights include the Canadian Museum
for Human Rights, many wonderful restaurants sure to satisfy even the most
discerning foodie, the Winnipeg Blue Bombers and the Winnipeg Jets (and their
many enthusiastic fans), The Forks, Folklarama, the International Jazz
Festival, the Winnipeg Fringe Theatre Festival and the Folk Festival, among
many others.

Outdoor enthusiasts enjoy the numerous and easily accessible urban parks,
trails, and the wide-open prairie sky. Winnipeg offers a reasonable cost-of-
living which is lower than most other North American cities.

Winnipeg experiences a continental climate characterized by four distinct
seasons creating a variety of weather conditions throughout the year.  Average
temperatures range between -12 degrees Celsius (+10.4 degrees Fahrenheit) in
the winter months to +26 degrees Celsius (+78.8 degrees Fahrenheit) in the
summertime. Winnipeg receives over 2,300 hours of sunlight annually and has
more clear skies than any other Canadian city! Due to its northern location,
Winnipeg residents enjoy up to 16 hours of sunlight daily during the summer
months.

[www.tourismwinnipeg.com ](http://www.tourismwinnipeg.com/)

* * *

# FAQ

**How many subspecialty fellows are at the University of Manitoba?**  
University of Manitoba offers pediatric subspecialty training programs in
Allergy and Immunology, Emergency Medicine, Hematology and Oncology, Child
Development, Respirology, Infectious Diseases, Neonatology and Genetics, with
approximately 15-20 subspecialty residents at any given time. These
subspecialty trainees teach and work alongside pediatric residents, but do not
detract from learning opportunities.

**How are residents evaluated?**  
Work place based assessments are used to asses whether residents are
developing and demonstrating the Entrustable Professional Activities (EPAs)
required in each stage of training. Rotation Evaluations are done by each
rotation supervisor at the end of each rotation.  Residents participate in two
mock OSCEs each year as well as twice-yearly STACERs (observed history and
physical). Written in-training exams (American and Canadian) occur three times
each year. With the advent of the national Royal College competency-based
medical education curriculum, pediatric residents will have opportunities as a
senior resident to evaluate more junior learners and thereby actively
participate in the medical education process. The competence committee meets
several times per year to review the progress of each resident. Residents meet
with the program director every six months and as needed to monitor progress.

**What social activities are part of the resident schedule?  
** Our wonderful group of residents are known to be friendly, hard-working and
extremely supportive of one another.  They also have a reputation for having
fun! Official activities include twice-yearly retreats (including a weekend
retreat away from the city), a December holiday dinner organized by the
residents for the Department of Pediatrics, and an end-of-year dinner
sponsored by the Manitoba Pediatric Society. In addition, residents enjoy
socializing at monthly journal clubs and research activities.

**Do you have electronic medical records?  
** Laboratory and radiology data is reported as part of an Electronic Patient
Record (EPR) available throughout the hospital. Documentation is completed on
EPR in the emergency department and neonatal intensive care units. Orders are
currently done on paper. Documentation on inpatient units is done in a paper
chart. There is a plan to move towards electronic ordering in the near future.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27132?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27132