#  University of Saskatchewan - Dermatology - Regina

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on August 30, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Brittany Waller  

Address Medicine - Dermatology  
Regina General Hospital  
1440-14th Avenue  
Regina, Saskatchewan, S4P 0W5  

306-766-3704

306-766-3704

Websites of Interest [ Discover all that College of Medicine, Regina Campus
offers when pursuing your residency training
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3mSZ8Zz38IU)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Francine Kurk

Title: Program Administrator

Email: Francine.kurk@saskhealthauthority.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Applicants are responsible for reviewing the [University of Saskatchewan
Policies for the R-1 Match](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/saskatchewan/) to determine if they meet all
requirements and eligibility criteria. Failure to meet or provide proof of any
of the stated requirements or documents may result in an applicant’s file not
being reviewed or ranked.

**Casper Test**  
All applicants must complete the Casper test. Please refer to the Examinations
section for more information.

**Licensing  
** Matched applicants must be eligible for an educational register license
with the [College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Registration___Licensure/web/Applicants/Licensure/Registration_and_Licensure_Landing.aspx?hkey=75b022f8-df64-4f34-8e2a-a09bea881787)
(CPSS) for a July 1st start date and must maintain eligibility for an
educational register license throughout their entire training program. Matched
applicants who are graduating in the spring will need to provide a copy of
their medical degree/diploma to the PGME office and the College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Saskatchewan (CPSS) prior to the start of residency training.
Any delays in providing all required documentation to CPSS may result in the
following:

  * delay in issuance of an educational register license and a delay in start of postgraduate training beyond July 1st
  * release from CaRMS match contract

**Applicants completing medical education at the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)**  are
required to submit proof of English language proficiency before the rank order
deadline to demonstrate they meet CPSS requirements. More information is
available under Supporting Documentation-Language Proficiency.

**NOTE:**  Applicants who are considering a delay to their convocation date
must be aware that a medical degree cannot be issued to a student until they
have convocated. CPSS bylaws require that new residents must have received
their medical degree prior to the commencement of residency training. Choosing
to delay convocation will affect a matched applicant’s ability to commence
their residency training program in Saskatchewan on July 1. Please refer to
the [U of S CaRMS Deferral Policy](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/carms-
deferral-of-training-start-date---match-violation-release-from-
match.php#relatedForms) for additional information.

**Credentialing**  
In order to commence and continue in Postgraduate Medical Education training
programs, matched applicants must be eligible for and maintain privileges
within the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) as determined by their
credentialing process. The Saskatchewan Health Authority requires successful
applicants to submit immunization records and a current criminal record check
as part of their pre-resident application for appointment. Applicants with
criminal records will be considered on a case by case basis by the College of
Medicine in consultation with the Health Authority.

Any delays in providing all required documentation to the Saskatchewan Health
Authority may result in a delay in the start of postgraduate training beyond
July 1st.

**Resident Boot Camp  
** All matched applicants must attend a mandatory three-day Resident Boot Camp
scheduled for late June. The purpose of the Boot Camp is to provide additional
support to trainees as they transition to residency by introducing and
consolidating baseline skills and knowledge needed to flourish during their
residency years. The program will include interactive case-based and hands-on
practice sessions. Stipends will be provided to trainees.

Attendance is required and absences are only permitted in exceptional
circumstances, with prior approval of PGME.

**Advanced Cardiac Life Support  
** Matched applicants are required to provide proof of ACLS certification
(current as of July 1, 2025) to the PGME office prior to starting their
training program. The ACLS course must be endorsed by the Heart and Stroke
Foundation of Canada and/or the American Heart Association. ACLS training that
is not certified by these two organizations and/or is completed entirely
through an online course will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for
all costs associated with obtaining ACLS certification.

* * *

# Return of Service

There is no return of service requirement for this program.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

The program application language is English and all documents must be in
English.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

All applicants must be Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents at the time of
application and must submit a notarized/certified photocopy of one of the
accepted citizenship documents.

Proof of citizenship must be current at the time of application and expired
documents will not be accepted.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum of 7.0 in each of the components

**Language assessment document accepted:**

  1. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on paper at a test venue
  2. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on a computer at a test venue
  3. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine at Home

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum grade of B

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of 9 in all sections

Applicants may be required to provide proof of proficiency in the English
language to meet licensing requirements of the [College of Physicians and
Surgeons (CPSS) of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Licensure/Requirements_Content/English_Language_Proficiency.aspx).

Applicants who graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States,
where English is the language of instruction **are not**  required to submit
proof of English language proficiency.

**Canadian applicants with medical education from the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)  are required
**to meet the English language proficiency requirements of the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan and must complete one of the language
exams listed above.

Applicants who are required to complete a language exam must submit a valid
test score in their CaRMS application **by the deadline for submission and
assignment of applications and documents.** Applicants who do not provide
acceptable proof of language proficiency, if required, will not be ranked.

Applicants must meet all of the criteria in one of the IELTS, OET or CELPIP
examinations. Please note that results from examinations cannot be combined,
unless the testing institution offers a sub-test.  
NOTE: Only OET offers sub-tests. CPSS will accept sub-tests obtained within
the same 24-month period as the original OET exam was sat.

Please direct any questions about language requirements to
[della.toews@usask.ca](mailto:della.toews@usask.ca). Applicants should not
contact CPSS directly about their eligibility for licensure.

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three reference letters are required.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter is mandatory.

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applications, supporting documents and letters of reference submitted after
file review has opened on November 29th, 2024 will NOT be considered.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 29, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews: Wednesday January 29th, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All interviews will be virtual as
mandated by CaRMS. Interviews will be arranged by the program administrator
and individuals will be contacted directly. Please note that the program will
not discuss inclusion or exclusion process or decisions with applicants
before, during or after the CaRMS match. If you are interested in our Program,
you are encouraged to submit your application for review.  
  
The format for interviews is expected to involve mainly a virtual panel
interview process.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates with superior academic achievements, demonstrated interest in
academic dermatology, and well-rounded personality will be considered.
Candidates will also be selected on the basis of their potential to contribute
to Canadian Dermatology.

While it is not mandatory that candidates spend elective time at the
University of Saskatchewan, an elective experience provides an extended
opportunity for the candidate to explore the program, and for faculty to
become familiar with the candidate. Candidates wishing to arrange an elective
should contact the U of S UGME Office.

Preference will be given to applicants who have a significant connection to
Saskatchewan and a commitment to working in Saskatchewan upon completion of
training.

## Program goals

Our mission is to promote and provide world class excellence in dermatology
teaching, medical discovery through research, leadership, and clinical service
as well as to provide a comprehensive, safe and supportive training program
that allows our Dermatology residents to not only achieve and excel at the
competencies laid out by the Royal College, but also provide them the support
to achieve their personalized career and life goals.

## Selection process goals

While demonstration of a strong academic record is necessary, our goal is to
recruit a diverse group of trainees that we, as the selection committee, feel
would be a good fit with our program and division in terms of
personal/professional characteristics, career aspirations and training
background. We have a very collegial, supportive, and productive group of
academic and community dermatologists in our division and are looking for
candidates that will contribute well to this environment.

## File review process

Review team composition : Review/interview team comprised of program director
and faculty.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Well organized; relevant information neatly stated.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Important to demonstrate interest in dermatology.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  All applicants must complete a Casper exam to be eligible for consideration.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Looking for a well-rounded individual with good work-life balance.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Ability to take personal initiative.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Pass marks   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  One personal letter required. **Please include a statement in your personal letter indicating if you did, or did not use Chat GPT or other AI to generate any portion of the letter.**   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Three reference letters required.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  All research is reviewed and appreciated. Research in dermatology is more important.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Pass / Comments   
Other file component(s) |  **Conflict of Interest statement: You are required to declare any real or perceived conflicts of interest in the documents submitted with your application. For example, (not an exhaustive list): Publications or projects done with family members, monetized dermatology projects, funding sources for experiences, etc.**  
  
Preference will be given to applicants who have a significant connection to
Saskatchewan and a commitment to working in Saskatchewan after completion of
program.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  The ability to work well with other residents, faculty, and allied health professionals   
Collegiality |  The ability to help fellow residents and medical students   
Communication skills |  Proper use of English (grammar and syntax) and body language   
Health advocacy |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Interest in the discipline |  General evaluation   
Interest in the program |  General evaluation   
Leadership skills |  Ability to take charge in a problematic situation   
Professionalism |  Ability to be confidential, respectful towards patients & colleagues   
Scholarly activities |  General evaluation   
Other interview component(s) |  Interviews are Wednesday January 29th, 2025.   
Overall global assessment and discussion at the end of the interview process.  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The University of Saskatchewan dermatology residency program is based out of
Regina, Saskatchewan. Additional training sites include Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan and Calgary, Alberta. There is no return of service requirement
for this 5-year program.

 The primary goal of our residency program is to equip trainees with the
skills required to excel as an independent dermatologist, both in the
community or hospital setting, upon graduation.

 The curriculum has been carefully crafted to provide residents with exposure
to the full breadth and depth of our specialty using the Competence by Design
framework from the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. The
first two years of training are internal medicine based, with a focus on
rotations relevant to dermatologic practice. The final three years of training
will be dedicated to dermatology exposure in both inpatient and outpatient
settings, encompassing the care of patients of all ages. Subspecialty training
experiences, including patch testing, phototherapy, wound care, dermatologic
surgery/Mohs, pediatric dermatology, aesthetics, and teledermatology, will be
incorporated into the residency experience.

 With a high faculty to student ratio, residents should expect extensive,
dedicated teaching throughout the five-year program. Protected academic half
day throughout all stages of training, a dedicated research block and ample
elective time will also help tailor the education experience to the resident’s
individual interests and future career aspirations. An additional highlight of
our program includes a first of its kind Rural/Remote Indigenous Community
dermatology outreach rotation. Successful applicants will also complete an
Indigenous Wellness course offered through the University of Saskatchewan in
their first year of training.

While academic excellence is a major focus of our program, the necessary
skills required to transition from resident to attending will also be explored
throughout residency. The CanMEDS competencies are woven through the
educational experiences to ensure the resident will excel in all aspects of
future practice. Providing culturally safe care will also be emphasized
throughout the residency program.  

**PGY1**

**Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location Details**  
---|---|---  
Outpatient Dermatology |  3 blocks |  Outpatient clinics (Regina)  
Internal Medicine (CTU) |  2 blocks |  Regina General Hospital  
Emergency Medicine |  2 blocks |  Regina General Hospital, Pasqua Hospital  
Pediatric Inpatient Service |  1 block |  Regina General Hospital  
Pediatric Subspecialty Clinics |  1 block |  Outpatient clinics (Regina)  
Adult Infectious Diseases (Clinic + Consult Service) |  2 blocks |  Regina General Hospital, Pasqua Hospital  
Adult Rheumatology |  1 block |  Regina General Hospital, Pasqua Hospital, outpatient clinics (Regina)  
Rheumatology Selective (Adult or Pediatrics) |  1 block |  Regina General Hospital, Pasqua Hospital, outpatient clinics (Regina)  
  
**PGY2**

**Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location Details**  
---|---|---  
Junior Dermatopathology |  1 block |  Regina General Hospital  
Plastic Surgery (Adult) |  2 blocks |  Regina General Hospital, Pasqua Hospital, outpatient clinics (Regina)  
Allergy/Immunology |  1 block |  Outpatient clinics (Regina)  
Oral Medicine/Pathology |  1 block |  Outpatient clinics (Regina or Saskatoon)  
Medical Oncology (Adult) |  1 block |  Allan Blair Cancer Centre (Regina)  
Outpatient Dermatology + Consultation to Inpatients/ER |  2 blocks |  Regina General Hospital, Pasqua Hospital, outpatient clinics (Regina)  
In-Province Dermatology Selective |  1 block |  Variable depending on resident interest/elective choice  
Pasqua Hospital Experience I (Patch Testing, Wound Care, Phototherapy) |  1 block |  Pasqua Hospital  
Outpatient Dermatology |  3 blocks |  Outpatient clinics (Regina)  
  
**PGY3**

**Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location Details**  
---|---|---  
Dermatologic Surgery/Mohs |  3 blocks |  Calgary, Alberta  
Pediatric Dermatology |  3 blocks |  Alberta Children’s Hospital/University of Calgary  
Outpatient Dermatology |  6 blocks |  Outpatient offices (Regina)  
Pasqua Hospital Experience II (Patch testing, Wound Care, Phototherapy) |  1 block |  Pasqua Hospital  
  
**PGY4**

**Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location Details**  
---|---|---  
Combined Rural/Remote Indigenous Community Outreach Experience |  2 blocks |  Outpatient office (Regina) is home base for Teledermatology. Rural clinics vary seasonally and typically are out/back the same day. Locations may include Fort Qu’Appelle, Stony Rapids, Pelican Narrows, La Loche, Ile-a-la-Crosse, Buffalo Narrows, Wellness Wheel, Gordon, Day Star, Kawacatoose, Muskowekwan.  
Outpatient Dermatology |  2 block |  Outpatient clinics (Regina)  
Senior Dermatopathology + Clinicopathologic Correlation |  3 blocks |  Hospital + outpatient clinics (Saskatoon)  
Outpatient Dermatology + Consultation to Inpatient/ER |  2 blocks |  Regina General Hospital, Pasqua Hospital, outpatient clinics (Regina)  
Research Rotation |  3 blocks |  Regina  
Dermatology Elective |  1 block |  Variable depending on resident interest  
  
**PGY5**

**Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location Details**  
---|---|---  
Dermatology Elective |  3 blocks |  TBD based on resident interest  
Outpatient Dermatology + Longitudinal Senior’s Clinic |  4 blocks |  Outpatient clinics (Regina)  
Junior Attending (Longitudinal Clinic/Consult to Inpatient + ER/After Hours Coverage) |  4 blocks |  Regina General Hospital, Pasqua Hospital, outpatient clinics (Regina)  
Practice Management/Outpatient Dermatology |  2 blocks |  Outpatient clinics (Regina)  
  
* * *

# Training Sites

### **Regina**

[Regina General
Hospital](http://www.rqhealth.ca/finding/hospitals/general/general_about_the_facility.shtml
"Regina General Hospital")

[Pasqua
Hospital](http://www.rqhealth.ca/finding/hospitals/pasqua/p_about_the_facility.shtml
"Pasqua Hospital")

### **Saskatoon**

[Royal University
Hospital](http://www.saskatoonhealthregion.ca/your_health/ch_ruh_home.htm
"Royal University Hospital")

[Saskatoon City
Hospital](http://www.saskatoonhealthregion.ca/your_health/ch_sch_home.htm
"Saskatoon City Hospital")

[St. Paul's
Hospital](http://www.saskatoonhealthregion.ca/your_health/ch_sph_home.htm "St.
Paul's Hospital")

### **Calgary**

[Alberta Children’s Hospital/University of
Calgary](https://www.albertahealthservices.ca/ach/ach.aspx)  
  
Outpatient clinics

### **Distributive Learning at the University of Saskatchewan**

The College of Medicine, while physically located in Saskatoon, is a
provincial resource in scope and in practice. Postgraduate Medical Education
at the University of Saskatchewan takes seriously its role in supporting
quality health care for all people of the province. This means training
physicians to meet the needs of, not only urban populations but also those of
rural and remote populations. In so doing, the College of Medicine has
developed, and continues to develop, rotations in other communities. These
rotations are designed to provide educational experiences to enhance the
resident's knowledge and skills and take maximum advantage of unique
educational opportunities in a diversity of communities.  

The Pediatric Dermatology blocks (three blocks) and Dermatologic Surgery
blocks (three blocks) will be completed at the University of Calgary under an
Inter-University Affiliation Agreement. Relevant expenses are covered for this
rotation.

Some academic/training sessions will be done in conjunction with Saskatoon
through either virtual sessions or travel to Saskatoon.

Extensive support is available for rotations completed at other sites in the
province. The exact nature of this support varies with location and program.
The communities involved, individual programs, the College of Medicine, and
the Ministry of Health work collaboratively to ensure residents are not
financially disadvantaged by the need to relocate. Temporary housing is
available at no expense to residents who leave their home site to complete
short term mandatory rotations at distributed sites in Saskatchewan. Please
review the [PGME Housing Guidelines](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/pgme-
housing-guidelines-pgme-housing-application-for-short-term-mandatory-
rotation.php#relatedForms) for more detailed information.

* * *

# Additional Information

## **About  Regina and Surrounding Area **

Regina has all the urban amenities without big-city hassles. Numerous outdoor
activities are available year-round. Wascana Lake, located in the centre of
our city, adds to Regina’s beauty. If you are a CFL football fan, look no
further than the Saskatchewan Roughriders. Our restaurant scene continues to
grow. Parks, nearby lakes and activities for children are plentiful. Numerous
excellent school divisions cater to a wide variety of educational needs.
Saskatchewan also has a lower cost of living than many other Canadian
provinces, making it a desirable place to train and practice. For more
information regarding local amenities, please visit the following links:

[Tourism Regina](https://tourismregina.com/)  

[Tourism Saskatchewan](https://www.tourismsaskatchewan.com/)  

[Regina Regional Economic Development
Authority](https://economicdevelopmentregina.com/)

[Tourism Saskatchewan](https://www.tourismsaskatchewan.com/ "Tourism
Saskatchewan")

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27220?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27220