#  University of Toronto - Psychiatry - Research Track - Toronto  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Adrienne Tan  

Address Department of Psychiatry  
CAMH - College Street Site  
Suite 832, 250 College Street  
Toronto, Ontario, M5T 1R8  

Websites of Interest [ Department of Psychiatry Postgraduate Education
](https://www.psychiatry.utoronto.ca/postgraduate-education-home)  
[ PGME at U of T ](https://pgme.utoronto.ca/)  
[ Toronto: The World at Your Doorstep
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ElmVUKUgVig&feature=youtu.be)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Sean Nestor

Title: Assistant Program Director, Clinician-Researcher Track

Email: sean.nestor@utoronto.ca

  

Name: Tammy Mok

Title: Postgraduate Officer

Email: tammy.mok@utoronto.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion**  
All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of the
University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

  
**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)  
** The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.  
  
_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

**Important Information**  

As the home of the largest psychiatry residency training program in Canada,
the Department of Psychiatry in the Temerty Faculty of Medicine at the
University of Toronto is committed to training of the next generation of
physician-scientists and academic psychiatrists. The Clinician-Researcher
Track (CResT) provides a fully integrated research training experience
embedded in a psychiatry residency program. This unique track is designed for
graduating medical students with prior research training who are highly
motivated to pursue careers as clinician scientists or scholars conducting
basic, translational, clinical, or public health research, or scholarship in
education, quality improvement, the humanities, or social sciences. The
Department of Psychiatry at the University of Toronto is consistently ranked
among the top 10 institutions in the world for clinical training and research
in neuroscience and psychiatry with a track record of producing leaders in the
field of brain sciences and academic psychiatry.

The core general psychiatry residency program at the Department of Psychiatry,
University of Toronto is built on a strong foundation of research and
education. Teaching, fostering lifelong learning, continuous performance
improvement, and a strong sense of professional identity are central to our
residency program’s mission.

Wellness and Community

Resident wellness and community is supported in a variety of ways – through
the PRAT (Psychiatry Residents’ Association of Toronto), strong resident
leadership through our Chief Residents alongside faculty who are dedicated to
fostering and welcoming the next generation of psychiatrists. We deeply value
the learner experience and our faculty teachers endeavor to role model a high
standard of professional behaviour.

Teaching and Learning: Competence by Design (CBD)

Our residency program is a leader in competency-based medical education (CBME)
with the implementation of [CBD](https://www.royalcollege.ca/en/standards-and-
accreditation/competence-by-design.html), Canada’s model for CBME in
postgraduate medical education. Education leadership in the Department of
Psychiatry have led innovations in key components of CBD including workplace-
based leaning and assessment, coaching, feedback and personalized learning
plans. For more information on CBD in the residency program, please see our
[website](https://www.psychiatry.utoronto.ca/competence-design).  The
residency program leverages the size and capacity of the department to deliver
a dynamic and responsive curriculum to prepare residents for independent
practice.

Collaboration and Integration

The broader community within the Department of Psychiatry at the University of
Toronto creates a powerful network that influences and leads all aspects of
mental health care. Through strong relationships between clinicians and
researchers, alumni and faculty, the university and hospitals, our residents
have the opportunity to participate in training experiences at the vanguard of
cutting edge research, clinical excellence, and education.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Applicants should provide all required information. Any questions about the
required information or the interview process should be directed to Tammy Mok
at the contact information above.

**Please note:** If you would like to be considered for the general psychiatry
residency program **and** a stream at UofT (either Indigenous or Clinician-
Researcher) please apply to **both** the general psychiatry program and the
specialized stream. You will be able to rank both streams in CaRMS following
the interviews.



In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Applicant support form  Number requested: 3

Traditional letters of reference are no longer accepted for this program. Your
referee must complete the required structured reference form. Please include
this link in your reference request:
<https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/2025-Psychiatry-Structured-Reference-Letter-EN.pdf>

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1500

  

Please provide a letter of interest (1500 words maximum) to support your
application to Psychiatry at the University of Toronto and the CResT. We are
interested to hear more about what draws you to considering psychiatry as a
career and some of the experiences that have shaped your trajectory. Please
use the questions below to guide your letter of interest.

Part One (300-350 words suggested):

  * Please tell us about yourself and what experiences (e.g., personal, community, academic, etc.), skills, strengths, and/or perspectives you would bring to psychiatry.
  * What patient care and/or other experiences have shaped your choosing psychiatry?
  * What doubts do you have about your career choice?

Part Two (300-350 words suggested):

  * Why would you like to train at the University of Toronto?
  * What are your potential plans or aspirations in a future career as a psychiatrist?

Part Three (750 words suggested):

In addition to the personal letter required by the General Psychiatry Program
as requested above, CResT applicants should include a third section to their
personal letter outlining their research progress to date, why they think the
program and Toronto are good fits for their research, potential research plans
during residency, and career plans after residency.



_Important Note: Please address any gaps in training or remediation periods in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count._

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Application and Interview day assessments are combined to assist the selection
committee in candidate selection and CaRMS ranking.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 6, 2025
  * February 7, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Both the General Psychiatry Program and
CResT Interviews will take place on either February 6 or 7, 2025. These are
the only available interview dates.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify applicants regarding selection
for interview by January 19, 2024 at the latest.

Details regarding the interview process: Applications are reviewed with
respect to academic trajectory, communication skills, reflective capacity,
interest/aptitude for Psychiatry practice and training.  
  
Details regarding the CResT interview process:  
  

  * 25-minute meeting with the CResT Assistant Director or their delegate
  * 25-minute panel interview with the CResT Admissions Committee

The CResT admission committee is composed of the CResT Assistant Director, one
clinician-scientist Department of Psychiatry faculty member, one clinician-
investigator faculty member, one other faculty member who is a researcher or a
scholar, and two senior residents in the CResT. The interview will focus on
the applicant's prior research and scholarly formal training experience, and
interest; aptitude for conducting independent research; and career trajectory
towards becoming a clinician scientist/scholar.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Applicants invited for virtual interviews will have the opportunity to attend
a full day 9:45am - 5:30pm EST with our program which will combine
informational sessions about our program, opportunities to meet informally
with residents and faculty, and structured interviews/assessments. All
interviews and information sessions will take place virtually via Zoom.

The Interview/Information Day will be used to explore and assess a variety of
skills and aptitudes needed for psychiatric training and practice, including
communication skills, problem solving skills, reflective capacity and
interest/aptitude for psychiatry practice and training.

Applicants will also have the opportunity to meet the Program Directors and
speak with residents. There will opportunities to learn more about the CResT,
Clinician Scientist Program, Clinician Scholar Program, and Competence by
Design (CBD).

PGY1s are selected based on an assessment of their written application
submission and both the General Psychiatry Program interview and the CResT
interview. Applicants must meet selection standards for both the CResT and
General Psychiatry Program.

## Program goals

The Department of Psychiatry at the University of Toronto strives to provide
the best care to today's patients and to transform the understanding and
treatment of mental illness and addiction for the patients of tomorrow. We are
building the future of psychiatry: we collaborate with our hospital partners
to create capacity and improve access to care; we ensure quality care; we
promote brain health and social inclusion of people with mental illnesses and
their families.

Our unique breadth and depth allow us to provide sound clinical care, create
novel knowledge, translate research discoveries and train the future
generations of psychiatry clinicians, educators and researchers

## Selection process goals

The applicant's combined score on their written application and interviews
(both CResT and General Psychiatry Program) will inform their position on the
rank order list. The Resident Selection Committee may decide not to rank a
candidate, regardless of their score or research accomplishments if the
Committee identifies a concern about the candidate's suitability for the
specialty or readiness for the residency program.

Candidates who are not offered acceptance to the CResT based on their rank-
order may be admitted to the General Psychiatry Program if ranked highly
enough by the General Psychiatry Program based on the general psychiatry
interview and written submission. In these cases, applicants are encouraged to
consider applying to the Clinician Scientist or Clinician Scholar Streams
offered through the General Psychiatry Residency Program.

Each file will be reviewed by a faculty member and a resident for the General
Psychiatry Program, the CResT Assistant Director, and members of the CResT
Admission Committee comprising faculty members and senior residents.

## File review process

Review team composition : The CResT admission committee is composed of the
CResT Assistant Director, one clinician-scientist Department of Psychiatry
faculty member and two senior residents in the CResT. The interview will focus
on the applicant’s prior research and scholarly formal training experience,
and interest; aptitude for conducing independent research; and career
trajectory towards becoming a clinician scientist/scholar.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
This is a new stream that was introduced in the CaRMS 2024 R-1 Cycle.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  All components considered.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted candidates’ opportunities to arrange and complete electives and would like to reassure you that a lack of elective activity will not negatively impact your application to our program.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  All components considered.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  All components considered.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  All components considered.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  All components considered.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  All components considered.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  All components considered.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  All components considered.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  All components considered.   
  
## Elective criteria

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted candidates'opportunities
to arrange and complete electives and would like toreassure you that a lack of
elective activity will not negatively impactyour application to our program.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  All interviews will be conducted via Zoom.  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  All components are considered.   
Collegiality |  All components are considered.   
Communication skills |  All components are considered.   
Health advocacy |  All components are considered.   
Interest in the discipline |  All components are considered.   
Interest in the program |  All components are considered.   
Leadership skills |  All components are considered.   
Professionalism |  All components are considered.   
Scholarly activities |  All components are considered.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

To ensure a successful training experience, CResT offers a unique combination
of protected research time, mentorship, research funding opportunities, and
access to clinical and research training environments. Two CResT resident
positions will be available each year.

**Eligibility****:** To be eligible for the CResT, in addition to meeting all
the requirements for the General Psychiatry Residency Program, applicants need
to demonstrate prior research training and experience, and evidence of
previous research productivity. To ensure that applicants have had sufficient
exposure to confirm their interest and demonstrate their research aptitude,
prospective CResT residents are required to have completed at least one
research elective and have produced at least one academic publication prior to
applying to the CResT. Most CResT applicants will have more research
experience and skills, typically including a graduate degree. For example,
CResT is an option for an MD-PhD researcher who is seeking to integrate
postdoctoral research experience with their general psychiatry residency
training, or an applicant who has a master’s degree and is interested in
pursuing doctoral studies during their residency.  Although a thesis based
graduate degree is an asset, it is not a requirement to apply to CResT. CResT
residents who do not have a graduate degree would be expected to have
extensive research experience and pursue a graduate degree (thesis-based
master’s degree or PhD) during their residency, which is aligned with the
expectations of the Royal College Clinician Investigator Program (CIP).

**Training Environment and career development:** The Temerty Faculty of
Medicine at the University of Toronto is affiliated with several world-leading
academic and medical research centres.  CResT applicants are eligible to
pursue basic, translational, clinical, or public health research projects, or
education, quality improvement, humanities, or social sciences scholarly
projects under the supervision of renowned faculty members across these
affiliated institutions. CResT residents can also pursue research projects in
collaboration with other departments or faculties relevant to their projects.
CResT will facilitate selective and elective clinical training with specific
patient populations and faculty supervisors that will complement their career
training goals. CResT residents will have the opportunity to attend relevant
Clinician Scientist Program seminars or Clinician Scholar Program seminars.

**Mentorship and Supervision****:** All CResT residents will have a primary
mentor who is a faculty member in the Department of Psychiatry with whom they
meet regularly. CResT residents can have more than one mentor who can be from
other departments (e.g., Neurology, Neurosurgery, Medicine) or other faculties
at the University of Toronto (e.g., Medical Sciences, Engineering, Computer
Science, Psychology, Law, Arts and Sciences). Supervision meetings will occur
regularly throughout the duration of the program. The supervisory model is
similar to the model during graduate school or a post-doctoral fellowship,
with a primary supervisor and members of an Advisory Committee. CResT
residents will also meet regularly for mentorship with the CResT Assistant
Director, Dr. Sean Nestor, MD, PhD who is a clinician scientist at Sunnybrook
Research Institute. Interested applicants are encouraged to review the
following list of potential supervisors:
[https://psychiatry.utoronto.ca/faculty,](https://psychiatry.utoronto.ca/faculty)
and to contact Dr. Nestor for further information sean.nestor@utoronto.ca

**Protected Time _:_** CResT residents will have an individualized training
experience that will optimize time for research or scholarship throughout
residency, while meeting all General Psychiatry Residency Program curriculum
requirements. This specialized track is designed to integrate research or
scholarship training within clinical rotations, provide multi-month blocks of
protected research time in addition to longitudinal protected research days
from PGY2-5. CResT residents would also pursue research-focused electives for
the majority of the PGY5 year.

**Research Funding Opportunities:** CResT residents will be eligible to apply
for designated departmental funds to support the cost of their research or
scholarly projects and for disseminating the results of these projects (e.g.,
presenting their findings at scientific meetings). In addition, if relevant,
departmental funds are available to pay for tuition associated with pursuing a
thesis-based graduate degree. Additional philanthropic funds linked to
specific research foci may also be available to support operating costs of
pilot projects, or data analysis, such as for the services of a statistician,
and for continuing education toward the acquisition of advanced research-
related knowledge and skills.

**Equity, Diversity, Inclusion, Indigeneity and Accessibility (EDIIA)****:**
CResT is committed to ensuring that EDIIA principles and training are
integrated throughout the duration of training and embedded within research
projects. CResT welcomes applicants from all backgrounds and identities.

**Project Timeline:**

  * PGY1 residents will identify a project supervisor with an academic appointment within the School of Graduate Studies and Department of Psychiatry, select advisory committee members or co-supervisors, develop research or scholarly project aims, and identify funding and resource needs to support their project. CResT residents will have one block in PGY1, during their Personalized Learning Experience (PLEX) rotation that will be protected for research.
  * PGY2 residents will be fully integrated into their research/scholarly environment and begin intensive primary research and scholarly activities. Residents will work toward publications and presenting their work at local, national, and international research meetings. Residents who will be pursuing a graduate degree will begin the application process.
  * PGY3 residents will write manuscripts and present their work at local, national, or international meetings. They will also be encouraged to apply to internal grant opportunities.
  * PGY4 residents will continue their research project, publications, and presentations, or graduate programs. Residents not pursuing graduate degrees will also start to plan for post-residency fellowship, clinician-scientist, or academic psychiatry positions.
  * PGY5 residents will apply for early career investigator grants/awards, continue research activities, perform clinical electives pertinent to their career goals, and work towards obtaining clinician scientist/scholar positions or fellowships.

Applicants are encouraged to contact Dr. Sean Nestor, who is the assistant
director of the CResT program,
[sean.nestor@utoronto.ca](mailto:sean.nestor@utoronto.ca)

General Psychiatry Program residents who are not in the CResT have the option
of applying for the Clinician Scientist Program (CSP) or Clinician Scholar
Program (CSP) in PGY2, depending on the focus of their research/scholarly
work.  While the CresT offers a more intensive research experience that is
integrated across all post-graduate years, the CSPs offer opportunities for
residents to engage in some research activities in PGY3-5.

Clinician Scientist Program:

The Department has a large Clinician Scientist Program, comprised of
mentorship, a seminar series, protected research time, and other research
activities. The CSP includes a general stream for psychiatry residents in
PGY3-4 who are interested in a research career, and a graduate stream for
psychiatry residents in PGY-5, and potentially PGY-6 if in sub-specialty
residency training, who have a substantial interest in research and wish to
pursue graduate school. Graduate-stream CSP Residents are encouraged to
register in the Royal College Clinician Investigator Program. There are also
many opportunities for more limited engagement in research projects, such as
through research electives.

Clinician Scholar Program:

The Clinician Scholar Program provides enhanced training for residents
interested in pursuing education scholarship, quality improvement, and other
creative professional activities (including the social sciences and
humanities). Residents apply to the program with a specific project and
supervisor, and receive additional training, mentorship and protected time in
PGY3 and PGY4. The Clinician Scholar Program also supports senior residents in
pursuing graduate studies and further training in these areas, including
doctoral and master’s degrees. Outside of the program, there are many
opportunities for residents to engage in scholarship throughout their
training.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.



Ratio of Faculty to Residents 950:200

Elective Time Away: Maximum 6 months during residency training (out of
province or international electives)

As of the 2020-21 academic year, all Canadian psychiatry residency programs
have transitioned to Competence by Design (CBD). Traditionally residents’
developmental stages were referred to by Postgraduate Year (PGY) – and whilst
this convention still exists, with CBD, residents’ developmental trajectory is
also described by developmental stage:

  * Transition to Discipline (TTD)
  * Foundations of Discipline (FOD)
  * Core of Discipline (COD)
  * Transition to Practice (TTP)

PGY1 (TTD and FOD)

PGY1 year consists of an initial transition to discipline (TTD) curriculum
called Ground School. This is intended to provide all trainees with a strong
foundation in medical and psychiatric skills before they advance to their
clinical rotations. Each trainee works directly with a coach throughout
residency training to review and reﬁne their learning goals. The rest of PGY1
consists of 12 four-week rotations/[blocks](https://pgme.utoronto.ca/common-
rotation-dates) in a variety of disciplines.

Clinical rotations

  * 5 blocks of psychiatry
  * 2 blocks of general internal medicine
  * 1 block each of cognitive neurology, emergency medicine, palliative care, neurology
  * 1 block of family medicine or pediatrics
  * Half-day Outpatient Psychiatry Experience – a highly rated outpatient rotation
  * Half-day per week for Academic Half-Day (AHD)

PGCorEd

All University of Toronto Residents will be required to complete the web-based
[PGCorEd](https://pgme.utoronto.ca/pgcored-overview) Teaching in Residency
module within the first 3 months of residency training.

Rotation Structure

For PGY2-5 rotation structure, please see information on our
[website](https://psychiatry.utoronto.ca/current-residents) (Department of
Psychiatry > Education > Postgraduate Education > Current Residents > Rotation
Structure). Throughout residency training, core rotation-based teaching
offered via a variety of instructional methods is also provided by award-
winning teachers and educators.

Opportunity for Subspecialty, Fellowship, and Area of Focused Competence
training

Towards the end of the CResT residency program, residents may apply for
subspecialty training in any of the three Royal College subspecialty programs:
Child & Adolescent, Geriatric, or Forensic Psychiatry. In addition, numerous
post-residency fellowships are available for advanced training. There are also
opportunities to train in Royal College approved Areas of Focused Competence
(AFC) in Addiction Medicine with two AFC's in development: C-L Psychiatry, and
Sleep Disorders Medicine.

**Psychotherapy Training**

PGY2 through PGY5 residents will obtain psychotherapy training through
supervision and seminars. CResT residents will be required to fulfill the
Royal College requirements for psychotherapy training across different
modalities such as: long- term and short-term psychodynamic therapy,
cognitive-behavioural therapy, interpersonal therapy, and multi-person
therapies including couple, family and group therapy. Training experiences are
also available in MBSR (mindfulness-based stress reduction), ACT (Acceptance
and Commitment Therapy), and DBT (Dialectical Behavior Therapy). Psychotherapy
training beyond the Royal College requirement is available to CResT residents
who wish to acquire additional psychotherapeutic skills.

**Research**

Clinician Scientist Program  
The Department has a large Clinician Scientist Program, comprised of
mentorship, a seminar/workshop series, protected research time (1/2 day a
week), conference funding to support resident travel, and other research
activities. The CSP includes a general stream for psychiatry residents in
PGY3-4 who are interested in a research career, and a graduate stream for
psychiatry residents in PGY-5, and potentially PGY-6 if in sub-specialty
residency training, who have a substantial interest in research and wish to
pursue graduate school. Graduate-stream CSP Residents are encouraged to
register in the Royal College Clinician Investigator Program. There are also
many opportunities for more limited engagement in research projects, such as
through research electives.

Clinician Scholar Program  
The Clinician Scholar Program provides enhanced training for residents
interested in pursuing education scholarship, quality improvement, and other
creative professional activities (including the social sciences and
humanities). Residents apply to the program with a specific project and
supervisor, and receive additional training, mentorship and protected time in
PGY3 and PGY4. The Clinician Scholar Program also supports senior residents in
pursuing graduate studies and further training in these areas, including
doctoral and masters degrees. Outside of the program, there are many
opportunities for residents to engage in scholarship throughout their
training.

**Training Streams:**

In 2024, the University of Toronto piloted two new streams – the Indigenous
Stream as well as the Clinician-Researcher Track. Please see those program
descriptions for further details. Applicants interested in applying for these
training streams will need to submit an application for both the specialized
stream and the general CMG Program. Applicants for the specialized streams
will have additional interview processes and information sessions alongside
participating in standard CaRMS interview process.

**Seminars**

In PGY1 one half day each week is devoted to core curriculum seminars covering
the topics of psychiatry required by the Royal College and University of
Toronto. In PGY2-4, residents will continue to receive teaching in a variety
of ways – through seminars, activities and online interactive modules.
Residents will write their Royal College exams in PGY4 and will receive
support in doing so from the residency program. In PGY5, residents participate
in a Transition to Practice (TTP) Curriculum. In addition, each teaching
hospital has an active teaching program consisting of didactic seminars, grand
rounds, journal clubs, and interview courses.

* * *

# Training Sites

Several hospitals in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA) are affiliated with the
University of Toronto and together they are members of the Toronto Academic
Health Science Network ([TAHSN](https://www.tahsn.ca/)). In general, core
rotations for psychiatry training occur at fully affiliated hospitals. There
is also elective time integrated into the residency program to explore
training experiences at a variety of hospitals across the GTA. For further
information about specific clinical programs/training sites, please refer to
information on the Department of Psychiatry [website
](https://www.psychiatry.utoronto.ca/)> Divisions and Programs > Education
(for each division). Efforts will be made to assign CResT residents to
clinical rotations at hospitals where their primary research activities are
conducted.

**Travel to training sites**  
Most core training sites are easily accessible by public transportation or
pedestrian/cycling transportation, depending on where trainees choose to live
in the GTA. Some training site options are more easily accessible by car. The
training program’s internal rotation match system does allow for residents to
be placed at sites up to 60 km away from the downtown core. Under those
circumstances, a car may be desirable but is not mandatory.

For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>

* * *

# Additional Information

  1. **Permanent Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education office in order to comply with current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry of Colleges and Universities
  2. **Matched applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data file to the matched university’s postgraduate education office. The postgraduate office will share the information as needed, but not limited to, the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:**  The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure to meet or provide proof**  of any of the stated requirements may result in applicant file being removed at any point during the match.

Strengths of the program include:

  * Leveraging size to offer breadth and depth of educational experiences whilst also fostering sense of community (e.g. through PRAT, Chief Residents at hospital sites, departmental events such as Don Wasylenki Education Day and Annual Department Research Day)
  * Integrating research or scholarship training within clinical rotations, provide multi-month blocks of protected research time in addition to longitudinal protected research days from PGY2-5
  * Focus on learner experience and professional development 
    * Wellness and learning environment are a core part of residency program’s mission
    * Inclusion of resident representation in core residency program activities (e.g. Residency Program Committee)
    * Coaching and Mentorship Program to support career development
    * Choice of rotations informed by trainee preference and research activities
    * Time for career exploration embedded throughout residency (through elective time or PLEX – personalized learning experiences)
    * Protected time for annual wellness retreats and career development events
    * Research funding opportunities
    * Opportunities for subsequent advanced training in subspecialties and areas of focused competence (AFCs)
  * Opportunities for rural, out of province, and international clinical and research training experiences
  * Exam Preparation 
    * Exam preparation curriculum
    * Protected time to attend review courses
  * Transition to Practice
    * Curriculum to support transition to unsupervised/independent practice
    * Personalized learning plan for trainees with coaching and mentorship



* * *

# FAQ

**Is the program holding any information sessions for potential CaRMS
candidates this year?**

Join us for an informative presentation about the U of T general psychiatry
program followed by a question-and-answer period. Program leadership may make
a guest appearance at these sessions. This is a chance to meet some of the U
of T residents, learn more about the program structure and culture, and get
your questions answered. We look forward to seeing you there!

**Session 1:  **Wednesday, October 9, 2024, from 7pm to 8pm EST

**Session 2:   **Wednesday, October 16, 2024, from 2pm to 3pm EST

**Session 3:**  Thursday, November 21, 2024, from 7pm to 8pm EST

For meeting links please visit [CANPREPP website](https://canprepp.ca/) >
Events page



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27410?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27410