#  University of British Columbia - Obstetrics and Gynecology - Vancouver  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 20, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 10

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Hanna Ezzat  

Address Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology  
Vancouver General Hospital  
2775 Laurel Street - 6th Floor  
Vancouver, British Columbia, V5Z 1M9  

Work

Fax

Websites of Interest [ UBC Obstetrics and Gynaecology Residency Program
Website ](http://www.obgyn.ubc.ca/education/residency)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Hanna Ezzat

Title: Program Director

Email: HEzzat2@cw.bc.ca

  

Name: Seng Keng

Title: Program Administrator

Email: seng.keng@ubc.ca

Phone: 604-875-4111 ext. 22925

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please visit the residency program
[website](http://www.obgyn.ubc.ca/Education/Residency) for more information on
our program.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

A copy of your CV is not required to be uploaded.  Please enter all work,
volunteer, education, electives, interests, research and publications that
would be found on your CV into the appropriate fields throughout the
application.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Only the first 3 reference letters will be reviewed.  Any additional reference
letters submitted will not be reviewed.  
  
Reference letters from referees in other specialties can be submitted.
Applicants are encouraged to submit reference letters from referees who know
them best regardless of their specialty.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Provide a letter so we can get to know you more and outlines why you have
chosen our specialty.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Applicants selected for an interview are also required to submit a photo prior
to the interview.  Instructions will be sent with the interview offer email.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Optional - will be reviewed

Self-identification questionnaire

The UBC Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology is committed to offering
residency ​positions on the basis of merit.  Equity and diversity are
essential to academic and clinical excellence.  An open and diverse community
fosters the inclusion of voices that have been underrepresented or
discouraged. The UBC Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology​ is committed to
ameliorating conditions that would prevent any individual from joining or
engaging with our department, including but not limited to those of race,
ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity, background or social position.
​​We strive to be an inclusive community that recognizes that the diversity of
our resident cohort serves an important factor in promoting the health of all
British Columbians. We aim to actively increase the pluralism and diversity
within our department in order to best represent the communities we serve.
Candidates are not required to submit the ‘CaRMS Self-Identification
Questionnaire’, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so the
information will only be used to advantage those who would contribute to the
diversity of our community.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applicant documents are reviewed and scored independently by resident and
faculty members of the Residency Program Committee (RPC). Those scores are
ranked to determine candidacy for an interview at UBC.

Reference letters and research/publications are weighted fairly heavily.  Your
elective, work and volunteer experience that showcase unique life experiences
that may provide you with special skills to bring to our program are also
highly valued.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held virtually over Zoom
on Jan 20 and 21, 2025.  
  
Applicants who have been granted an interview will receive an email in
beginning of January outlining the details for their interview.  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All applications will be reviewed and
successful candidates will be invited for an interview. A personal
videoconference interview is required before an applicant will be considered
for the final ranking.  
  
Faculty, residents and the Program Director will participate in the interview
process.   Interviews will be approximately 60 minutes in length.  
  
  
  
CaRMS Information Session - Join us on **Wednesday,** **November 6, 2024 at
4:30PM PST  **for a CaRMS Info Session.  
  
Zoom link:
https://ubc.zoom.us/j/69545452752?pwd=Wp9NGBlNHyQVGSJlzMreydvHKG91ID.1  
  
Residents, Program Director, and staff will be in attendance to present an
overview of the residency program and to answer any of your questions. We look
forward to seeing you!  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

  * > Individuals who are strong in both academics and surgical skills

  * > Individuals who demonstrate commitment to improving the care of women either through a keen interest in women's health research or through women's health advocacy

  * > Individuals who are able to function extremely well in a cohesive team environment

## Program goals

At UBC, we are committed to training physicians who will serve our population.  
  
Residents in our program are expected to demonstrate clinical and academic
excellence, exceptional interpersonal and teamwork skills, research experience
and a sense of responsibility and dedication to the profession.  Residents are
expected to be active community members and demonstrate that they are _well
rounded_ as evidenced by engagement in volunteer, extracurricular or other
types of activities.  
  
At UBC, we rely on the entire province for training.  Therefore, the ability
to complete rotations 'away' from your home base is expected.

## Selection process goals

  * > Interest in Obstetrics and Gynaecology, and those who will develop into exceptional Obstetricians and Gynaecologists

  * > Interact appropriately with patients, colleagues and healthcare team members alike

  * > Demonstrated attributes highlighted in the CanMEDS 2015 roles

  * > Demonstrated ability and enthusiasm to learn and are able to adapt to the various demands of residency training

  * > Sincere interest to serve British Columbians

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team is composed of 10 resident and 18
faculty members of the Residency Program Committee (RPC), including the
Program Director and Program Administrator.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We do not consider a CV as a stand alone document. We do consider the breadth of your research and publications, electives, community and work experiences as entered into the application fields.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Wide selection of electives from various specialties   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering (medical and non medical) and mentoring   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Holding office in a student government, club or organization   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Strength of your performance   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in discipline and desire to serve patients   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interaction with colleagues and patients. Interest in discipline.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  List of projects (complete or in-progress) and publications. Interest in future research projects.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Completing a UBC elective in Obstetrics & Gynaecology is not a requirement,
however the applicant will need to be able to demonstrate a strong commitment
to the speciality in their other electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high-quality patient care through working in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Behavior, attitude and ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak and write in English   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrated interest   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated interest and ability in the specialty; evidence for compassion   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest in the specialty, program and serving British Columbians   
Leadership skills |  Ability to initiate programs, lead organizations or group and make an impact   
Professionalism |  Correspondence with staff, residents and interviewers during, before and after the interview   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Other interview component(s) |  Medical-legal, ethics and decision-making.  
  
Interviews are virtual and are the only format being offered.  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The program provides an excellent environment to train highly skilled general
Obstetricians and Gynaecologists while also fostering residents who have an
interest in subspecialty training.

Our faculty and residents are the highlights of the program.  All department
members are committed to a resident focused environment with strong,
supportive teaching and learning opportunities.

The level of obstetrics training each resident receives in unique to our
program.  Our laparoscopic training and diversity of patients and cases are
excellent.

We offer unique rotations in Vulvovaginal Health, Family Planning and Chronic
Pelvic Pain that are not found in other residency programs.

There is a tremendous amount of support for resident research that includes a
dedicated faculty Research Advisory Group.

Simulation training has become an integral part of our residency training with
multiple simulation sessions, OB Simulation, Laparoscopy Dry Lab, Nexplanon
Implant training, Surgical Procedure Review, Sphincter Lab, Pig Labs, Cadaver
Labs, Bootcamp (Transition to Foundations) and a Hysteroscopy Course.

The Residency Program has developed a strength in international health
advocacy work with both faculty and residents committed to this endeavour.

Residents are provided tools to become outstanding clinical teachers.  This
commitment parallels the department's vision of improving women's health and
providing the best training experience in Canada.

Vancouver is a wonderful place to live with many opportunities to enjoy the
outdoors and the thriving arts culture.



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The program offers a wide variety of clinical material in all areas of the
specialty along with a strong research base.

Conference funding is available to residents in all years.  Attendance at
conferences and participation in research projects are strongly encouraged and
supported.

Residents participate in the Surgical Foundations program to acquire
fundamental and advanced surgical skills training at an earlier stage in their
training.  
  
Courses such as the Fetal Health Surveillance, ALARM, ACLS-BLS, FCCS, ATLS and
NRP are all offered by the program.

We have a dedicated Research Advisory Group and mentors to provide residents
with assistance in their research projects.  
  

**Competence By Design (CBD)**

Residents are assessed in the Royal College CBD format. UBC transitioned to
this model in 2019 along with all other Canadian Obstetrics and Gynecology
programs

Certification for trainees includes the completion of the Royal College
Examination; completion of the Surgical Foundations exam; required training
experiences; and completion of Entrustable Professional Activities (EPAs) and
their encorporated milestones.  All EPAs and the associated milestones
(documented within an electronic portfolio) and the Royal College Examination,
must be successfully completed to achieve certification. A competency
committee is responsible for assessing the residents progress through the
stages of training.  The committee reviewes performance data including
narratives assesments, EPAs and other data.

For more information, please refer to
<http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd.ca>

**Transition to Discipline**  
  

The first 9 blocks of residency training offers broad-based clinical training
in all basic disciplines that is similar to a rotating internship called BCY
(Basic Clinical Year).

These blocks are completed at the Royal Columbian Hospital (New Westminster)
and St. Paul 's Hospital (Vancouver) with a dedicated Program Director and
Program Administrator at those sites.  Residents will have a site match prior
to the start of residency to determine their training site.  
  
Residents participate in the Surgical Foundations program which consists of
weekly academic seminars throughout the entire year and a dedicated 4 week
CRASH Course rotation to help prepare for writing the Surgical Foundations
Royal College exam that is written in the fall of the second year of training.  
  

\- General Obstetrics

\- General Gynaecology  
  
\- General Surgery  
  
\- CRASH Course (Surgical Foundations)  
  
\- ICU  
  
\- Emergency Medicine  
  
\- CTU  
  
\- NICU/Ultrasound  
  
\- Bootcamp (prepare for Transition to Foundations; introduction to Research
included)





  
  

**Foundations**  
  

This stage of training is comprised of General Obstetrics and Gynaecology and
Family Planning rotations at five different teaching hospital locations in
Vancouver and the Lower Mainland:

\- BC Women's Hospital (Obstetrics)  
  
\- Vancouver General Hospital (Gynaecology)  
  
\- Royal Columbian Hospital (Obstetrics and Gynaecology)  
  
\- St. Paul's Hospital (Obstetrics and Gynaecology)

\- Surrey Memorial Hospital (Obstetrics and Gynaecology)

\- Family Planning

\- Research



**Core**  
  

This stage of training consists of subspecialty training as well as further
development of gynaecological skills as follows:

\- Maternal Fetal Medicine & Ultrasound  
  
\- Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility including Pediatric Gynaecology

\- Vulvovaginal Health/Sexual Medicine

\- Reproductive Infectious Diseases  
  
\- Gynaecologic Oncology  
  
\- Urogynaecology

\- Community Obstetrics and Gynaecology (Kamloops, Kelowna, Prince George,
Victoria, Courtney/Comox or Nanaimo)*

\- Chronic Pelvic Pain  
  
\- Surgical Selective/Elective

\- Daycare O.R.

  
* Accommodations are provided at no charge for residents during their Community rotation.  Funding is available for round-trip visits back to Vancouver every 4 weeks and for mandatory program events.  Weekly academic seminar are videoconferenced to each site so the resident remains connect with the other residents.  The Community site is assigned prior to the start of the stage of training and residents must attend that assigned site.

  
  

**Transition to Practice**  
  

This stage of training consists of Lead resident rotations at BC Women's,
Vancouver General and St. Paul's Hospitals.  These rotations encourage
development of teaching and leadership skills.  They also include longitudinal
ambulatory "lead" clinics and OR experiences where residents hone and develop
their skills as independent consultants.



**Research**  
  

Resident research involvement is a Royal College requirement. Each resident
must complete at least one project during their training and present at least
once at our annual Department Academic Day.

Residents receive a dedicated research rotation, academic seminar time
dedicated to completion of research projects, as well as training in research
design.  Residents are encouraged to present their projects at local, national
and international meetings and conferences.

A dedicated Research Advisory Group provides assistance and mentorship to the
residents throughout their residency.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

Training Hospital Site Information

  
Please visit our [website](http://obgyn.ubc.ca/about/hospital_affiliations/)
for more information on each training site.

In summary we have five major teaching centres in Vancouver (BC Women's,
Vancouver General, St. Paul's, Surrey Memorial and Royal Columbian Hospitals)
and provide mandatory rural Community rotations in Nanaimo, Kamloops, Victoria
and Prince George.

Resources

  
Each affiliated hospital teaching site has resident access to computers in the
resident call room.  
All the teaching hospitals have UpToDate subscriptions and access to the UBC
E-Journal library.

* * *

# Additional Information

Vancouver is set in the midst of great natural scenic beauty and offers a
wealth of outdoor and cultural activities to suit all lifestyles.

Residents in the program come from a variety of cultural, educational and
ethnic backgrounds. The program prides itself on the collegiality of the
residents.

More information about the program can be found on our
[website](http://www.obgyn.ubc.ca/Education/Residency).





* * *

# FAQ

**Q: What subspecialty fellowships and advanced training programs are there at
UBC?**

A: There are Royal College accredited fellowships offered in Maternal Fetal
Medicine, Reproductive Endocrinology & Infertility and Gynaecologic Oncology.
More information can be [found
here](https://obgyn.ubc.ca/education/fellowships/).

Advanced Training Programs are available for Female Pelvic Medicine &
Reconstructive Surgery, Family Planning, Infectious Diseases and
Endometriosis, Pelvic Pain, Vulvovaginal Health, & Advanced Laparoscopic
Surgery.  More information can be [found
here](https://obgyn.ubc.ca/education/advanced-training-programs/).

Cross Discipline Fellowship is available for Reproductive Infectious Diseases.
More information can be [found here](https://obgyn.ubc.ca/education/cross-
discipline-fellowship/).



**Q: What are the recent changes to the program?**

A: We are in the _fifth_ year of CBD (Competence By Design) competency based
medical education training.  Rotations continue to evolve with additional
training in Ultrasound in the first year and increase of general obstetric and
gynaecology training.  Residents are assigned Academic Advisors to help review
their progress and coach the residents through the stages of training.
Competence Committee reviews each resident biannually and provides update
reports to the residents.

We have introduced a Daycare rotation to increase surgical exposure and
opportunities for junior residents, split Maternal Fetal Medicine/Ultrasound
rotation into junior and senior rotations throughout Core stage of training
and increased Urogynaecology to two consecutive block rotations for greater
exposure and learning opportunities.

QUINTS mentorship groups have been established where residents in all 5 years
of training are paired with a faculty mentor and provides an opportunity for
OBGYN residents to create relationships between the training year with near-
peer mentorship, as well as mentorship with a staff physician to help
residents' personal and professional development.

Dr. Roxana Geoffrion is our Resident Research Chair and has implemented a
Resident Research Fair, staged research project reports and mentorship to help
aid the residents with their research projects.  A Research Research Database
has been created to house a list of projects available to the residents.

Simulation training has increased with the introduction of OB Simulation,
Laparoscopy Dry Labs, Surgical Procedure Review, Sphincter Labs, Hysteroscopy
Course, Cadaver Labs, Bootcamp (Transition to Foundations) and Pig Labs.

Laparoscopic box trainers are housed in each of our local and Community
hospital centres for residents to use.  

Academic seminars are offered virtually over Zoom and in-person.  Seminars are
structured by topic blocks and the format has been modified to a combination
of didactic lecture, case based discussion and review.  Transition to
Discipline residents participate in academic seminars or program event for the
last 4 months of the academic year once finished Transition to Discipline.

First and second year residents participate in the UBC Surgical Foundations
program to enhance their surgical skills knowledge early in their training.
Residents attend weekly seminars and a dedicated CRASH Course rotation.



**Q: What makes UBC unique?**

A:

\- Wide variety of clinical material  
\- Teaching and faculty support  
\- Diversity of patients from the DTES (Downtown East-Side) at St. Paul's
Hospital  
\- The obstetrics experienced at BC Women's Hospital (> 7500 deliveries per
year)  
\- Provincial training at distributed rural community sites  
\- Excellent training in advanced laparoscopic gynaecology procedures  
\- Unique dedicated rotations for Family Planning (Terminations and
Contraceptive Counselling) centered in an inter-professional maternity unit,
Vulvovaginal Health and Chronic Pelvic Pain  
\- Dedicated research support staff and advisors  
\- Support for international experiences/electives  
\- Funding support for conferences  
\- A collegial atmosphere amoungst residents and strong resident input into
the Residency Program Committee (RPC) and Business Meetings  
\- Funding to attend conferences and research projects are at some of the
highest levels of any program in Canada



**Q: What are the locations for the 3 block Community rotation?   It is
mandatory to attend a rural community location and how it is funded?**

A: The Community rotation block occurs during Core stage of training in
Nanaimo, Prince George, Victoria or Kamloops.  This rotation is mandatory and
residents are expected to complete their rotation in one of those training
locations.  Accommodations are provided at no cost to the residents and
funding is available for travel every 4 weeks back to Vancouver and for
mandatory program events.  
  
Academic seminars are video broadcast to Community hospital sites so residents
can interact and participate in the seminars along with their colleagues.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27166?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27166