#  Western University - Internal Medicine - London  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 26

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Marko Mrkobrada  

Address Medicine, London Health Sciences Centre  
Victoria Hospital  
Room E6-102, 800 Commissioners Road  
London , Ontario, N6A 5W9  

Work  (519) 663-3511

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Postgraduate Medical Education Schulich School of
Medicine and Dentistry ](http://www.schulich.uwo.ca/medicine/postgraduate/)  
[ Department of Medicine ](http://www.schulich.uwo.ca/deptmedicine)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Tara Smith

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: tara.smith@lhsc.on.ca

Phone: 5196633511

  

Name: Justin Quesnelle

Title: Education Manager

Email: domeducation@lhsc.on.ca

Phone: (519) 663-3511

  

* * *

# Important Information

All programs at Western commence on July 1, 2025 with a one-day orientation in
London, Ontario \- date TBD

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

**Friday,  January 10, 2025 - Login Information**  
Candidates will receive information by email regarding credentialing
information for access to the on-line interview scheduling system. At 2 PM EST
candidates can view the list of Universities where an interview has been
offered.  
  
**Monday, January 13, 2025 @ noon (EST) - Interview Notification**  
Candidates will be able to log into the interview system. Once logged in,
candidates can schedule interviews using the on-line interview scheduling
system.  
  

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided (by submitting one
of the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.
Failure to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.
No other forms of verification are acceptable.  

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of card must be provided and legible.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

3 letters of reference are required from physicians who you have worked with
clinically.  Letters from Residents are not accepted.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  600

  

A personal letter (of no more than 600 words) is required. Please include the
following information: career goals; general interests and accomplishments;
reasons for selecting Internal Medicine; basis for selecting Western
University; research experience (if applicable).

Optional - will be reviewed

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All application files are reviewed and ranked, according to our selection
criteria, by the Postgraduate Selection Committee. **Candidates will be
contacted by email regarding interviews on January 5, 2024.**  Due to the
large number of applications, we will not be able to offer interviews to all
candidates.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held using a virtual
platform between January 22-24, 2025. Further details will be available closer
to the interview dates.  
  
  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: **  
Interviews**  
Interviews will be 30 minutes in length and are conducted online by a team
comprised of a Faculty member and a Resident in our program. On each of the
interview days, a program information session will be available to the
applicants.  
  
**Additional Information  
** Please visit
<https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/deptmedicine/education/postgraduate/future_residents/index.html>
for more information about our program.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We are seeking enthusiastic, self-directed, and collegial learners with a
passion for Internal Medicine. As a candidate, your application will be graded
according to academic achievement, commitment to the field of Internal
medicine, involvement in research, and evidence of dedication to their
community and to others.



## Program goals

The Internal Medicine Residency Training Program's overall goal is to train
residents to become competent specialists in Internal Medicine, capable of
assuming a consultant's role in the specialty. An internist is a specialist
trained in the diagnosis and treatment of a broad range of diseases involving
all organ systems, and is especially skilled in the management of patients who
have undifferentiated or multi-system disease processes. An internist cares
for hospitalized and ambulatory patients and may play a major role in teaching
and research of medical students and residents.

Our Program provides a supportive and collaborative environment that includes
mentorship and curriculum opportunities to ensure that each resident will have
access to the educational experiences to successfully complete the program
objectives and succeed in the certification exam of the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

Our Program is known for its collegial and friendly environment, where
residents support and collaborate with each other.  An example of this is our
well-functioning Resident Wellness Committee which organizes many social
activities, debriefing sessions, and provides ongoing support for our
residents throughout the year.  The activities of the Resident Wellness
Committee are supported financially by the Department of Medicine.

We believe that residents should have a very active voice in the Program.
Residents' input has been critical to the design and evaluation of learning
experiences and has led to tangible changes in the design of rotations,
curriculum for academic half days and continuous quality improvement
initiatives for our teaching curriculum.





## Selection process goals

The Program seeks motivated, collaborative and enthusiastic candidates who are
passionate about Internal Medicine. We welcome candidates with a growth mind-
set who seek feedback and are committed to continuous development.

**File Review:  **All files are reviewed and scored according to our selection
criteria.  This allows us to differentiate between candidates on the basis of
academic performance, scholarly pursuits, leadership, letters of reference,
etc., to determine eligibility for an interview.

**Interview:  **The interview is done independently from the file scoring
process.  Candidates invited for an interview will meet online with a team of
a faculty member and a resident from our Program.  Interviewers do not have
access to the candidate's file. The interview process is intended to focus
exclusively on assessing the attributes that cannot be easily obtained by a
review of the candidate's file, such as ability to communicate effectively,
problem-solving, stress management, professionalism, conflict resolution, and
attitudes regarding growth and feedback.

The interview is 30 minutes in duration and it follows a standard set of
questions and it includes a short case scenario.  The interview questions and
the case have been developed by a committee that includes residents who were
asked what personal attributes they felt a good resident in Internal Medicine
should have.  

**Interview Day:  **The Program offers a comprehensive presentation regarding
all aspects of the program.  



## File review process

Review team composition : All received application files are reviewed and
scored, according to our selection criteria, by our Program Director,
Assistant Program Director and a trained team of file reviewers.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 401 - 600  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  This is used to determine a candidate's interests outside of academic activities   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  This is used to determine a candidate's management skills and commitment to their communities   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  This provides information on the candidate's academic performance   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  This provides information on the candidate as a person and why they are interested in Internal Medicine and our Program   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  This provides information on the candidate's communication and professional attributes   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  This provides evidence of interest in scholarly activities and the ability to manage multiple tasks   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  This provides information on the candidate's academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We do not require applicants to have done electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Candidate's ability to function well within a team structure   
Collegiality |  Candidate's ability to demonstrate friendly, respectful, and positive interactions   
Communication skills |  Candidate's ability to communication in a clear, professional manner   
Health advocacy |  Candidate's ability to communicate their role in health outcomes and prevention   
Interest in the discipline |  Candidate's ability to articulate their interest in Internal Medicine   
Interest in the program |  Candidate's ability to articulate their interest in the Program and community   
Leadership skills |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Professionalism |  Candidate's professional attributes both in a clinical setting and other   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The program has a supportive and well-functioning Residency Training Committee
that has very strong Resident participation. The Department of Medicine at
Western University offers a collegial and supportive learning environment for
residents.  
  
  
**1) Strong Clinical Training  
** The program provides a wide experience in Internal Medicine and all
Subspecialties. Rotations in each sub-specialty are organized to provide
exposure in both out-patient and in-patient environments. In addition,
training at Western allows for rotations in Community Medicine - Stratford,
St. Thomas, Woodstock, Chatham, Goderich, Sarnia and Windsor, Ontario. Through
core training, every resident is exposed to a wide spectrum of practice
milieus, which is very important in career development.  


**2) Daily High-Quality, Dedicated Teaching**  
Each day, residents have protected time for didactic teaching. Morning report
and lunch time teaching occurs daily. Weekly academic half-day includes
relevant clinical case studies, didactic material and literature review.
Weekly grand rounds are also part of our mapped academic curriculum.
Simulation program and POCUS training is also a strong focus of our program.  


**3) Career Development  
**

The Program incorporates various opportunities to explore career options in
Internal Medicine and its subspecialties. Residents may opt to complete 3 out
of 4 of their elective blocks in other centres or in community settings. Semi-
annual meetings with the Program Director include a discussion on career
choices, and faculty mentorship allow residents to explore both specialty
choices and type of practice.  
In addition, there is ample opportunity to participate in research during
residency and to consider how a career in academic medicine may be of interest
to them.

**4) Responsiveness to Royal College Curriculum Changes  
** With the input of residents, we have revamped the academic half day
curriculum in order to optimize the preparation of PGY3 cohort for the Royal
College Certification exams, which has seen each cohort have their own
academic half day curriculum.  Through resident input, we have also
reorganized our Clinical Teaching Units (CTUs) citywide to mandate caps on our
CTU teams to allow for a balance between service and educational needs of our
residents, before these are mandated by the Royal College. Together, with the
Department of Medicine and the Postgraduate Medical Education Office, our
program has been able to successfully transition to the Competency by Design
curriculum. For further information on Competency by Design, please refer to:
<https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/deptmedicine/education/postgraduate/cbme/index.html>[  
](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e)

**5) Coaching and Mentorship  
** Residents are assigned an Academic Advisor that provide coaching and
support throughout the CBD stages of training. Additionally, the program
offers a coaching program where Residents may work with a faculty coach to
enhance clinical skills and professional growth.

**6) Research and Scholarly Activity**

Residents are able to take advantage of the many research opportunities
available at Western University. Residents participate in research either
ongoing and/or as a dedicated research elective block during second year. The
Department holds an annual Resident Research Day where Residents have the
opportunity to present their work and be recognized by Faculty and peers.  
  

**7) Conference / Educational  
** Residents in our Program receive an annual allowance to attend a conference
of their choosing. This allowance may also be directed to cover membership or
tuition fees in other educational courses or events.  
  

**8) Scholarly Resources  
** The Program provides a membership to the NEJM Knowledge+ Adaptive Online
Learning Platform to all residents.  


**9) Journal Club  
** The program runs a Resident-driven Journal Club which is organized for each
PGY group to assist Residents in developing critical appraisal skills.
Residents are given an annual budget to run these events.  


**10) Simulation Program**  
The Internal Medicine Program at Western offers two ultrasound courses during
the PGY1 year. One is a five-hour course focusing on ultrasound guided
procedures (Thoracentesis, Paracentesis and Lumbar Puncture). The second
course is also a five-hour course focusing on vascular access (internal
jugular line, femoral line, superficial veins and arteries) using ultrasound.  
  
**11) Windsor  
** Residents in the Internal Medicine Program at Western University are
**mandated** to do 1 rotation in in-patient medicine (CTU) during PGY1 and
another during PGY2 or PGY3 year in Windsor. There is opportunity to spend
additional time in Windsor for Residents who are interested. Travel allowance
and housing is provided for Residents. Family accommodations are available but
are not guaranteed.

  
  
  





* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 3 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**PGY1 Schedule**

**Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location**** **  
---|---|---  
London CTU |  4 blocks  |  CTU is offered at the London Health Sciences Centre – University and Victoria Hospitals  
Windsor CTU |  1 block  |  CTU is offered at the Windsor campus  
ICU |  1 block |  London Health Sciences Centre   
Subspecialties |  7 blocks |  Subspecialty rotations are offered at the London Health Sciences Centre – University and Victoria hospitals as well as St. Joseph’s Health Care  
  
  
  


**PGY2 Schedule**

**Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location**  
---|---|---  
 London CTU |   2-3 blocks |  CTU is offered at the London Health Sciences Centre – University and Victoria Hospitals  
Windsor CTU |  1 block x 18 Residents |  CTU is offered at the Windsor campus  
 EDC | 1 block x 22 Residents |  Emergency Department Consults (EDC) is offered at the London Health Sciences Centre – University and Victoria Hospitals  
CCU |  2 blocks |  CCU is offered at the London Health Sciences Centre – University and Victoria Hospitals  
ICU |  2 blocks |  ICU is offered at the London Health Sciences Centre – University Hospital  
Subspecialties |  3 or 4 blocks |  Subspecialty rotations are offered at the London Health Sciences Centre – University and Victoria hospitals as well as St. Joseph’s Health Care  
Electives |  2 blocks |  Elective options may include clinical elective outside of London (including International health) or research  
  




**PGY-3 Schedule**

**Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location**  
---|---|---  
London CTU |  2 block (during first 6 months) |  CTU is offered at the London Health Sciences Centre – University and Victoria Hospitals  
Windsor CTU |  1 block (during the first 6 months for 21 residents) |  CTU is offered at the Windsor campus   
EDC |  2 blocks |  Emergency Department Consults (EDC) is offered at the London Health Sciences Centre – University and Victoria Hospitals  
Ambulatory GIM |  2 blocks |  GIM is offered at the London Health Sciences Centre – University and Victoria Hospitals  
Subspecialties |  4 blocks |  Subspecialty rotations are offered at the London Health Sciences Centre – University and Victoria hospitals as well as St. Joseph’s Health Care  
Electives |  2 blocks |  Elective options may include clinical elective outside of London (including International health) or research  
Community Medicine* |  1 block |  Community rotations are available in a number of communities in Southwestern Ontario. _ _  
*_Note: the mandatory community rotation can be completed at any time during the three year training period_  
  




**Subspecialty Training**

After completing Internal Medicine training, we offer subspecialty positions
in the following programs:

\- Cardiology

\- Clinical Immunology/Allergy

\- Clinical Pharmacology

\- Critical Care

\- Endocrinology and Metabolism

\- Gastroenterology

\- General Internal Medicine

\- Geriatrics

\- Hematology

\- Infectious Disease

\- Medical Oncology

\- Nephrology

\- Respirology

\- Rheumatology

* * *

# Training Sites

**Western University  Teaching Hospitals:**

\- London Health Sciences Centre: University Hospital and Victoria Hospital  
\- St. Joseph's Health Care London (incorporating Parkwood Institute)  
\- Windsor Regional Hospital



* * *

# Additional Information







* * *

# FAQ

Residents in our program are available to answer questions about the program
to prospective CaRMS applicants.  Please contact
[domeducation@lhsc.on.ca](mailto:domeducation@lhsc.on.ca) for a list of
Residents and their contact information.

Our Residents can answer questions about their level of satisfaction in the
program; program strengths and weakness; lifestyle in London and other
important questions about the program.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26817?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26817