#  University of Manitoba - Family Medicine - Northern Thompson  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 12, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Leah Peters  

Address Family Medicine  
University of Manitoba  
P228-770 Bannatyne Avenue  
Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3E 0W3  

Websites of Interest [ About Our Program:
](http://umanitoba.ca/healthsciences/medicine/units/family_medicine/)  
[ Provincial Criteria for Manitoba ](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-
residency-match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Tamara Buchel

Title: Postgraduate Program Director

  

Name: Shannon Rankin

Title: Postgraduate Program Coordinator

Email: shannon.rankin@umanitoba.ca

  

Name: Dr. Nathan Coleman

Title: Site Medical Lead

  

* * *

# Important Information

The University of Manitoba campuses are located on original lands of
Anishinaabeg, Cree, Oji-Cree, Dakota, and Dene peoples, and on the homeland of
the Métis Nation. The Department of Family Medicine additionally participates
in clinical programs in Inuit communities. We respect the Treaties and
Agreements that were made on these territories, we acknowledge the harms and
mistakes of the past, and we dedicate ourselves to move forward in partnership
with Indigenous communities in a spirit of reconciliation and collaboration.



**ZOOM INFORMATION SESSIONS:**

CaRMS General Overview session:  Thursday, November 14 from 7:00-8:30pm CST
via Zoom.

**Main Program Overview Zoom Link:**

<https://umanitoba.zoom.us/j/65400352768?pwd=F3Mg29YkJ3dbJRr64a4c0nLIYZNPKm.1>



**Northern Remote and Northern Thompson**

Thursday, November 28 from 7:00 - 8:00pm CST via ZOOM

<https://umanitoba.zoom.us/meeting/register/u5Irc-
CsrDsvHtxbQHS7eU_2eS8XvCawsfem>



CaRMS Information - Resident Sessions (hosted by our Lead Residents):
7:00-8:00pm CST via Zoom

  * Wednesday, December 4
  * <https://umanitoba.zoom.us/meeting/register/u5wqceitqj8jGdY0qYbQyI6rwtQmBf4mDrUG>
  *   * Wednesday, December 11
  * <https://umanitoba.zoom.us/meeting/register/u5wrdO6pqDsiHtJQsk0cYSRps04Ei3XfQoS1>

**MANDATORY ORIENTATION SESSIONS:**

The mandatory full day **Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation**  for all
residents will be held on Thursday, June 26, 2025

The mandatory full day **Family Medicine Residency Orientation  **will be held
on Friday, June 27, 2025



**Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS)**

Prior to the commencement of training, matched applicants must provide proof
of ACLS certification that is current as of July 1, 2024. The ACLS Provider
course must be certified by the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada or the
American Heart Association. ACLS training that is not certified by one of
these two organizations and/or is completed entirely through an online course
will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for all costs associated with
obtaining ACLS certification. We provide a re-certification course in your
second year of residency prior to graduation.



**Family Medicine Professional Choices (FMProC)**

The Family Medicine Professional Choices (FMProC) testing is mandatory for all
applicants. It is a situational judgement test designed to evaluate your
professional reasoning, communication skills and aptitude for responding
effectively to diverse clinical situations. It primarily consists of two types
of questions: ranking and rating scenarios.

FMProC registration for the first round of CaRMS 2025 will be open on
September 11, 2024. More details: <https://fmproc.com/>

Situational judgement tests are designed to assess applicant’s judgement
regarding situations encountered in the workplace or during training.
Applicants are presented with a set of hypothetical based scenarios and asked
to make judgements about possible responses. Applicants responses are
evaluated against a pre-determined scoring key to provide a picture of their
situational judgement in that particular context.

The development and modification of the scenarios in FMProC involved input
from several leaders with different perspectives, roles and experiences. This
included family physicians, educators, family medicine residents and medical
students, Indigenous health, rural and remote family medicine, 2SLGBTQ+, anti-
racism, international medical graduates and more. This specifically included
groups under-represented in medicine to ensure, as much as possible, that no
group is disadvantaged by the test format or content.

**Resident Home Location and Travel Requirements**

As a resident in the Northern Thompson stream, you will be expected to
maintain a residence in Thompson. You will travel across northern Manitoba and
possibly northern Canada.  

**Air travel is a MANDATORY  component of this stream.**

**Vacation Allowance**

Vacation in PGY1 can be taken in the following ways:

  * Two weeks in each of two blocks in conjunction with an approved elective or Family Medicine Block Time in the remaining two weeks of the same blocks
  * Vacation in 1 week blocks can be taken during Family Medicine Block Time
  * One 4 week vacation block

_*Vacation is not allowed in Block 1 in PGY1.  _

Though the program tries to accommodate residents’ specific vacation period
requests, constraints of scheduling often requires flexibility and not all
requests will be approved.

* * *

# Return of Service

All IMGs will be required to sign a return of service contract with Manitoba
Health, in the specialty (including Family Medicine) in which they have
completed residency training. The ROS commitment is commensurate with the
length of the training program. All IMGs entering a training program already
holding a return of service obligation must disclose this obligation at the
time of application. IMGs who have an undischarged return of service
obligation may not be eligible to begin training in a position funded by
Manitoba Health. Such individuals may wish to contact Shared Health at [pmao-
residents@sharedhealthmb.ca](mailto:pmao-residents@sharedhealthmb.ca) for more
information.  
---  
  
* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

**You are required to fulfill ALL of the most current Provincial Criteria for
International Medical Graduates for Manitoba.**

The criteria can be found at:  <https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/>





Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

All residents will be required to disclose their MCCQE1 examination results
whenever available. The purpose of this disclosure is to allow for resources
to be provided to the few residents who would benefit from extra support early
in their residency in an effort to maximize their success.



NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).

Optional - will be reviewed

MCCQE Part II

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part II - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part II - Supplemental Information Report

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Three (3) Family Medicine Structured Reference Letters are required. Please
select supervisors, preceptors or other individuals who have had ample
opportunity to assess you as a candidate for Family Medicine. Ideally one of
your letters should be from a family physician but this is not mandatory.

All three (3) Family Medicine Structured Reference Letters must be current and
dated on or after January 1, 2024. Undated reference letters will not be
accepted.  Do not arrange for more than three (3) Family Medicine Structured
Reference Letters as additional letters will not be reviewed.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

A personal letter is required. We are looking for mature, enthusiastic
physicians who bring with them a broad range of life experiences, are
committed to providing excellent patient care and can embrace the depth and
breadth of experiences our program offers.

In 500 words or less, please address the following areas:  What life
experiences demonstrate your adaptability, team skills, leadership potential,
and sense of compassion?  Why do you feel the University of Manitoba would be
the right choice for you?  In what ways are you connected to Manitoba?

Custom Résumé / CV

Include a current CV in the Custom Resume section.  Please tailor your resume
to provide us with a better understanding of your experiences and commitment
to Family Medicine.

Conditionally required

Proof of registration as a clinical assistant or allied health professional in
Canada

If you are or have been employed in Canada as a Clinical Assistant or as an
Allied Health Professional, you must provide supporting documentation of
registration as a Clinical Assistant or other Allied Health Professional.

Optional - will be reviewed

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Self-identification questionnaire

  * The University of Manitoba, Rady Faculty of Health Sciences promotes and supports a community that embraces equity, diversity and inclusion, provides for equality of opportunity and recognizes the dignity of all people. These are key values to create an inclusive community for all. The University encourages applications from Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women, persons of a minority sexual orientation and/or gender identity, and all candidates who would contribute to the diversity of our community.
  * We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self-Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete confidentiality. We are in the data collection phase currently.  Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self-identification questionnaire, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so, the information received would only be used for program selection improvement in future years. It will not be used for selection purposes this year. Any self-identification questionnaires received will NOT be reviewed as part of our file review process or used as an aid for file reviewers for the 2024 match.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applicants must apply to, and rank each of the University of Manitoba Family
Medicine programs individually. There is one central review process.

The same personal letter should be used for all University of Manitoba Family
Medicine applications.

There will be only one interview irrespective of the number of programs to
which you apply; there may be specific additional questions based on your
program interests.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Tuesday, January 21, 2025  
  
Wednesday, January 22, 2025  
  
Thursday, January 23, 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Applicants who are invited for
interview will participate in one structured interview, regardless of the
number of sites to which you have applied. The structured interview may have
questions specific to the sites to which you have applied.  
  
The interview is conducted as a 3-person panel interview and typically
consists of 1 physician, 1 interprofessional faculty member, and 1 resident.  
  
Candidates will be invited to attend one of the three interview days. The
interview itself lasts 30 to 40 minutes.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The Department of Family Medicine at the University of Manitoba is committed
to a fair, equitable, and transparent selection process.

To address the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences commitment to equity, diversity
and inclusion we take proactive measures including implicit bias training for
all selection committees. We strive for diversity and cultural safety
throughout the process (hiring panels, short-list of candidates, interviews).
We encourage you to self-identify any aspect of diversity in your personal
statement.

In assessing eligible IMG applicants, The Department of Family Medicine will
ordinarily consider applicants who have completed their undergraduate medical
education within the preceding 10 years, unless the applicant has completed a
residency in Family Medicine and/or is actively engaged in generalist
practice. Of all such eligible applicants, approximately one third of all
applicants, and no less than 300, shall be selected for file review based upon
a composite score generated from the following:

\- the z-score of MCCQE Part I

\- the better z-score of NAC or the MCCQE Part II

Of those applicants selected for file review, approximately 100-150 applicants
will be selected for interview including all residents of Manitoba, and all
other IMG applicants based upon a composite score generated from the z-score
of MCCQE Part I plus the better z-score of NAC or the MCCQE Part II and file
review score.

Rank order lists will be created for each stream's IMG positions based on the
following formulaic approach:

\- z-score of MCCQE Part I plus the better z-score of NAC or the MCCQE Part II
(20% weighting)

\- file review score (30% weighting)

\- FMProC score (20%)

\- Interview score (30% weighting).

Preference may be given to residents of Manitoba, or individuals who have
identified a genuine commitment to Manitoba.

Applicants who are invited for interview will participate in one structured
interview, regardless of the number of sites to which you have applied. The
structured interview may have questions specific to the sites to which you
have applied.

## Program goals

The University of Manitoba is committed to the social justice principles of
equity, access and participation and to promoting opportunities for
systemically marginalized groups who have been excluded from full
participation at the University and the larger community including Indigenous,
Black, racially marginalized Peoples, persons with disabilities and those who
identify as 2SLGBTQIA+ (Two Spirit, lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans,
questioning, intersex, asexual and other diverse sexual identities) and women.

A broad knowledge base and clinical skill sets enable family physicians to
work in diverse settings such as patients' homes, outpatient clinics,
emergency departments, labour and delivery suites, hospital wards, and nursing
homes. Family medicine often serves as the main entry point to the health care
system and the hub that provides continuity of care throughout the life cycle.
As such, family medicine is the central medical discipline. The importance of
primary care in quality of health and the value Canadian society places on
family physicians in the delivery of this care are well known.

The goal of our residency program is to train family physicians who are able
to provide comprehensive, high quality, continuous care in urban, rural, or
remote settings.

## Selection process goals

An inclusive, open and diverse community is essential to excellence and
fosters voices that have been ignored or discouraged. To address the Rady
Faculty of Health Sciences commitment to equity, access and participation, and
in recognition of the underrepresentation of members of historically and
currently excluded groups,  our program has taken the following proactive
measures as part of our selection process:

Implicit bias training for all selection committee members, diverse
representation of selection committee members, inclusion of interview
questions targeted to assess applicant commitment to EDIA, offering necessary
accommodations during the interview process, second pass/review of applicants
below interview and rank order list cut off to review for possible bias in
scoring, orientation to all assessors to scoring rubrics, file review
completed by dedicated, trained group.

We strive for diverse perspectives and cultural safety throughout the hiring
process (resident selection committees, short-list of applicants, interviews).
We ask all applicants to include an EDIA statement in their personal letter
with evidence demonstrating their own commitment to EDIA in their work and
training thus far.

## File review process

Review team composition : The file review teams consist of Family Medicine
physicians, current residents and interprofessional faculty.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 601 +  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Comprehensive and well organized document   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Family Medicine or broad range of interests   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  See examinations & additional documents   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Well rounded activities other than academics   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Initiative and able to problem solve   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evaluate according to the info provided by school   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  500 words or less   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  3 standardized reference letters   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Variety   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evaluate according to info provided by school   
Other file component(s) |  Familiarity with the Canadian Health Care System. Identifies interest in Family Medicine.  
  
We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self-
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self-
identification questionnaire, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so,
the information received would only be used for program selection improvement
in future years. It will not be used for selection purposes this year. Any
self-identification questionnaires received will NOT be reviewed as part of
our file review process or used as an aid for file reviewers for the 2024
match.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

An elective in Family Medicine either in Manitoba or elsewhere, completed
before file review, is not required for application to the University of
Manitoba Family Medicine Programs. However, we are looking for a demonstration
of interest in, and commitment to Family Medicine.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Interprofessional collaboration   
Collegiality |  Treats others with respect & knows professional boundaries   
Communication skills |  Ability to listen and communicate in a clear manner   
Health advocacy |  Affirming and sharing the vision and values of health promotion   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrates genuine interest through electives, extra curricular activities, volunteering, etc.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrates ongoing commitment to Family Medicine   
Leadership skills |  Ability to guide and help others   
Professionalism |  Carry themselves in a professional manner   
Scholarly activities |  Pursuing further education, previous accomplishments   
Other interview component(s) |  Commitment to underserved populations, resilience   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

# Overview of Department

#### <https://umanitoba.ca/medicine/department-family-medicine>

The University of Manitoba is committed to the social justice principles of
equity, access & participation and to promoting opportunities for systemically
marginalized groups who have been excluded from full participation at the
University and the larger community including Indigenous, Black, racially
marginalized Peoples, persons with disabilities and those who identify as
2SLGBTQIA+ (Two Spirit, lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, questioning, intersex,
asexual and other diverse sexual identities) and women.

For more than 40 years, the University of Manitoba’s Department of Family
Medicine has been positively influencing the health of individuals, families
and communities across Manitoba. Through clinical work, teaching and
innovative research, family medicine is making a difference.

We offer residents the chance to learn with interprofessional faculty, such as
dietitians, pharmacists, nurse practitioners and other health care
professionals. This collaborative learning model teaches our students and
residents the basic principles of health care professions, when to use them in
their care of patients and how to make appropriate referrals.

This program, accredited by the College of Family Physicians of Canada,
promotes whole-person medicine through a combination of patient-centred care
and structured seminars. During clerkship, learners are distributed in over 20
communities throughout Manitoba.

Family Medicine is a wide-ranging discipline, with the chance to impact a
diverse spectrum of patients in various communities. Manitoba is one of the
most diverse provinces in the country, providing an excellent opportunity to
work with patients from a variety of backgrounds.

  

## Training Passionate Family Physicians

After completing a four-year undergraduate degree in Medicine, students who
enter the two-year Family Medicine residency choose a learning stream tailored
to their practice interests.

Here is a video with a general overview of our Family Medicine Program at the
University of Manitoba.

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5vieoIArQFM&list=PLCNj2OCRLILF6vOq6gtxYSY3_M-
wuE57r&index=6](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5vieoIArQFM&list=PLCNj2OCRLILF6vOq6gtxYSY3_M-
wuE57r&index=6)

### Streams:

  * Urban
  * Northern Remote
  * Northern Thompson
  * Bilingual
  * Rural - Boundary Trails
  * Rural - Brandon
  * Rural - Interlake Eastern
  * Rural - Neepawa
  * Rural - Parkland
  * Rural - Portage la Prairie
  * Rural - Steinbach
  * Integrated Clinician Scholar (3 year program)

 Each stream provides a broad and balanced experience that prepares well-
rounded family physicians who can practice with confidence in a variety of
settings.

## Enhanced Training

In addition to the postgraduate program, Family Medicine also offers enhanced
skills training which allows Family Medicine doctors to continually shape and
reshape their careers. Enhanced training is available in the following areas:

  * Addictions
  * FM Anesthesia
  * Cancer Care
  * Care of the Elderly
  * Emergency Medicine
  * Obstetrical Surgical Skills
  * Palliative Care
  * Sports & Exercise Medicine

This training requires an additional 6–12 months of study. Residents finishing
their second year and practicing family physicians may apply.

## Inspiring Young Minds - Our Faculty

The Department of Family Medicine has over 500 faculty members who excel at
sharing knowledge, building competencies, and maximizing learning
opportunities for students.

Our faculty are integral participants in all stages of medical education. Some
have major Undergraduate teaching roles, providing comprehensive Family
Medicine and generalist content as well as their unique perspectives on health
care.

## Integrative Medicine in Residency Program Option

The Integrative Medicine in Residency (IMR) program is a two-year program of
study exploring the integration of Complementary and Alternative therapies
with conventional family practice in an evidence-based manner. This program is
being offered in conjunction with the University of Arizona Center for
Integrative Medicine, and is a 200-hour, interactive web-based curriculum that
is completed longitudinally alongside the Family Medicine residency program.
This program option is available to residents in all streams. Visit the
[Integrative Medicine in Residency
Program](http://umanitoba.ca/faculties/health_sciences/medicine/units/family_medicine/postgrad/integrative-
med.html) page for full details.

## Innovative Research

The Department of Family Medicine provides exciting opportunities to perform
research with practical outcomes on the health of Canadians. The department
promotes and supports the development of research skills and provides
workshops to all Family Medicine residents.

# **Courses Offered for Residents in Family Medicine***

**Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS)**

Prior to the commencement of training, matched applicants must provide proof
of ACLS certification that is current as of July 1, 2024. The ACLS Provider
course must be certified by the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada or the
American Heart Association. ACLS training that is not certified by one of
these two organizations and/or is completed entirely through an online course
will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for all costs associated with
obtaining ACLS certification. We provide a re-certification course in your
second year of residency prior to graduation.

**Advances in Labour and Risk Management (ALARM)**

We mandate ALARM training during the residency and provide reimbursement upon
successful completion.

**Advanced Trauma Life Support (ATLS)**

We mandate ATLS training during the residency and provide reimbursement upon
successful completion for all non-urban residents.

**Indigenous Cultures Awareness Workshop (ICAW)**

We mandate ICAW training during residency.

**Neonatal Resuscitation Program (NRP)**

We mandate NRP during residency and provide reimbursement upon successful
completion.

**Ultrasound Curriculum**

Ultrasound curriculum is mandatory and provided for all residents.

_*subject to change_



# **Scholarly Curriculum***

Scholarly activities in our program include:

\- participation in monthly Journal Clubs

\- presentations at patient case rounds and regular guideline appraisals

\- didactic teaching  

- formal Quality Improvement curriculum

\- Critical Appraisal assignments

\- PEARLS exercises as offered through the College of Family Physicians of
Canada

\- Academic Days throughout the year

\- additional core curriculum as mandated by PGME for all postgraduate program
residents

_* subject to change_

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Family Medicine training for residents is completed in primarily in Thompson,
Manitoba. The Thompson Clinic serves as the home unit for residents and
hospital-based experiences and training are completed at Thompson General
Hospital.

Thompson Clinic is a large community clinic with over 10 family physicians
integrated within an interprofessional team including: nurse practitioners,
nurses, clinical assistants, physician assistants, midwives, a dietitian, a
social worker and others. It provides primary care to the City of Thompson
(approximate population of 13,000) and surrounding area. Residents are paired
with a primary preceptor throughout their training.

Thompson General Hospital is a regional community referral hospital. It has 79
acute care beds, a busy 24/7 Emergency Room, full scope acute
Medical/Surgical/Pediatric ward, a busy maternity ward and intermediate care
nursery, inpatient Psychiatric unit, Operating Room, Dialysis Unit, Special
Care Unit, Diagnostic services (including lab, x-ray, ultrasound, mammogram
and CT), Respiratory Therapy, Rehab Services, Cancer Care- Chemotherapy Unit,
Pharmacy and more. The attached Northern Consultation Clinic provides
specialty services including Pediatrics, Obstetrics and Gynecology, General
Surgery, Otolaryngology (ENT), Internal Medicine, Pain Management and more.

Portions of Family Medicine time in PGY1 and PGY2 are spent in distributed
sites in the region to develop a broad skill set to work in various practice
settings. These include but are not limited to Gillam, Lynn Lake, Leaf Rapids,
Snow Lake, Flin Flon and The Pas and others. In addition to providing care in
the outpatient setting, residents will provide a variety of other services
depending on the community (including emergency care, inpatient care, long
term care, etc.)

Dedicated horizontal experiences during family medicine time include emergency
medicine, care of the elderly, family practice oncology, hospital medicine,
newborn care and psychiatry in conjunction with family physicians and local
specialists.

Please see our "Training Sites" section for more details on this site.

Training in some off-service rotations will take place within Winnipeg. These
rotations have been developed to enhance the skills necessary to practice full
scope family medicine in a northern environment, and include neonatology,
addiction medicine, palliative care, pediatrics, ICU and trauma surgery.

PEDIATRIC MEDICINE – Residents also spend one rotation in Children’s Emergency
at Children’s Hospital in Winnipeg. Additional rotation includes outpatient
and inpatient pediatrics and longitudinal experiences during Family Medicine
Block Time.

AIRWAY - 2 weeks of training in airway management is completed with
Anaesthesia in Thompson.

OBSTETRICS - 8 weeks of obstetrics is completed at Thompson General Hospital
with Obstetricians and also includes opportunities for skills and training in
Gynecology.

NEONATOLOGY - Care of the normal newborn is incorporated horizontally
throughout family medicine blocks in Thompson. An additional 2-week rotation
takes place in the tertiary setting in Winnipeg. The focus is on resuscitation
and stabilization of newborns, and the management of problems that can be
managed by family physicians in remote settings.

SURGERY - Residents spend one rotation attached to the Acute Trauma Surgery
Unit at the Health Sciences Centre.

PALLIATIVE MEDICINE - Winnipeg has one of the longest-standing traditions in
Canada in providing hospital and community palliative care to its citizens.
During PGY2, skills taught by palliative care family physician specialists
enable residents to gain skills essential to providing symptom-based care to
both patients struggling with chronic illness and during end-of-life care.

BEHAVIOURAL MEDICINE - An integrated approach to behavioural medicine is
utilized during Family Medicine to develop the experience required to meet the
diverse care needs of patients.

Highlights Include:

\- Experiences with mental health team members and community resources
including child and adolescent services.

\- Training along with Psychiatry including inpatient and outpatient care to
develop skills in triaging managing complex and acute care needs

\- Addiction medicine rotation and horizontal training in community addiction
medicine

\- Interprofessional training and collaborative care of clients allowing
identification and understanding of the social determinants of health on
behaviour and mental health

\- Opportunity for integrative medicine fellowship

NUTRITION EDUCATION & CARE - Nutrition education and counselling skills are a
key component of our Family Medicine residency training. Therapy, primary
prevention of disease and healthy nutrition throughout the life cycle are all
integrated into your Family Medicine experiences. Specific training and time
is spent with a dietitian in Thompson with a focus on common nutritional needs
encountered across the lifespan and for common chronic conditions.

* * *

# Training Sites

#### Northern Thompson site video:

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sl2lZatlro0&list=PLCNj2OCRLILF6vOq6gtxYSY3_M-
wuE57r&index=4](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sl2lZatlro0&list=PLCNj2OCRLILF6vOq6gtxYSY3_M-
wuE57r&index=4)

#### Major Strengths of the Northern Thompson Site

Training out of Thompson and surrounding area will provide you with a broad
skillset to meet the needs of rural and urban communities across diverse
practice settings.

 We provide:

  * A comprehensive training experience based in Northern Manitoba within an interprofessional practice.
  * Large clinical volumes with excellent variety of patients and plenty of opportunities for procedural skills.
  * Integrated Aboriginal Health exposure and training in collaboration with local communities, organizations and education partners.
  * Continuity of care within your preceptors with low preceptor to learner ratios.
  * Training in an area with high rates of chronic and complex disease with a high proportion of individuals affected by the social determinants of health which cultivates a broad knowledge base and robust skill development.
  * An integrated curriculum providing training in psychiatry, obstetrics, geriatrics, community medicine, cancer care, and nutrition.
  * Accessible local specialists for both inpatient and outpatient consultation and support.
  * Horizontal point-of-care U/S experience.
  * Costs of travel to and accommodation at remote sites covered by the program.
  * Core rotations designed to support northern practice, including ICU, surgery, airway, pediatrics and addictions.
  * 2 days of Academic Curriculum per rotation with emphasis on simulation and procedural skills.
  * ACLS, ATLS, ALARM, NRP, PALS, ICAW and procedural sedation courses.
  * Opportunities for participation in teaching, advocacy and research based on interests.
  * Training in fly-in First Nations communities within Northern Manitoba.

Distributed training sites across the region offers experience in rural
medicine within small (population less than 1000) to larger communities
(population 13,000) giving broad exposure to diverse environments. Sites
include The Pas, Flin Flon, Opaskwayak Cree Nation, Lynn Lake, Gillam, Snow
Lake, Leaf Rapids, Wabowden, Thicket Portage, Ilford, Pikwitonei and others.
All are located in beautiful natural environment with pristine forest, lakes
and rivers and rich history and cultural heritage.

* * *

# Additional Information

**TRANSPORTATION**

As you will need to move frequently about the city and province between
training sites, you will need to secure a means of transportation.  You may
find it easiest to maintain a personal vehicle.

**Additional Points to Consider:**

  * Cost of living is one of the most affordable in Canada.
  * Full access to University of Manitoba library and its electronic resources, including UpToDate.
  * Competitive resident salaries with a solid resident contract including a well-supported maternity/paternity leave policy.  [http://www.parim.org](http://www.parim.org/)
  * Membership and registration fees are covered for University of Manitoba, College of Family Physicians and Surgeons of Manitoba, Canadian Medical Protective Association, and the initial membership in the College of Family Physicians of Canada for PGY1 year.
  * Annual two day resident retreat held in a community outside of Winnipeg.
  * All mandatory course fees are reimbursed upon successful completion.  Examples of mandatory courses include:  NRP, ALARM, ATLS, PALS, BLS and ACLS recertification. Mandatory courses vary between programs.
  * Travel costs and accommodation are provided for mandatory off-site rotations.

WHAT ABOUT LIVING AND FUN IN THOMPSON AND NORTHERN MANITOBA?

Thompson is a 750 km drive north of Winnipeg. Located on the traditional
territory of the Nisichawayasihk Cree Nation the city has its roots as a
mining town but has grown to become a city centre for government, industry,
health, education, commerce and culture for Northern Manitoba. Thompson has an
extensive array of local amenities including a wide variety of local
restaurants, multiple grocery and department stores, local malls, hardware
stores, a theatre, a bowling alley, outdoor ice rinks, multiple gyms, an
18-hole golf course and a diverse variety of local retailers and service
providers. It has a state-of-the-art community centre with indoor ice rinks,
curling, playground, gymnasium, walking track and more attached to the
University College of the North campus. Elementary schools are located
centrally within each neighbourhood and the local high school boasts diverse
curriculum and opportunities. There are many local day cares for those
requiring child care. Opportunities for all ages abound including hockey,
gymnastics, dance, martial arts, music, soccer, bowling, curling, and much
more.

It is a well-connected community with second busiest airport in Manitoba with
flights to Winnipeg and many surrounding Northern communities daily. It is
easily accessible on foot with many walking trails encouraging an active
lifestyle and also has taxi and bus service. The railway connects it with
Churchill, Gillam, The Pas and Winnipeg.

The true richness of Northern Manitoba lies in its people and the land.
Located within the breath-taking boreal forest with countless lakes, streams
and rivers, the land provides an environment which cannot be replicated. Paint
Lake is 20 minutes south of Thompson and has picturesque views, a marina,
lodge with restaurant, camp sites, yurts, boating, fishing and much more.
Access to Manitoba’s two highest waterfalls (Kwastichewan Falls and Pisew
Falls) are located at a 45-minute drive south of Thompson on Highway 6.
Mystery Mountain Winter Park also allows ample access to outdoor winter sports
with four lifts, 18 runs and 10 kilometers of groomed cross-country ski
trails. Surrounding the community are many kilometres of groomed snowmobile
trails and countless sites for canoeing, kayaking, fishing, snowshoeing and
much more. Many cultural events and festivals allow people to connect, learn
and discover together including Nickel Days Festival, Canada Day Celebration,
National Indigenous Peoples Day Celebration, Winterfest, Diwali Celebration,
Community Powwows and much more.

Websites of interest:

[http://www.thompson.ca/](http://www.thompson.ca/)

[https://northernhealthregion.com/](https://northernhealthregion.com/)

[https://www.travelmanitoba.com/manitoba-
north/](https://www.travelmanitoba.com/manitoba-north/)

[http://www.heritagenorthmuseum.ca/](http://www.heritagenorthmuseum.ca/)

[http://www.nickeldays.ca/](http://www.nickeldays.ca/)

[https://thompsononline.ca/](https://thompsononline.ca/)

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27143?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27143