#  University of Manitoba - Family Medicine - Rural Boundary Trails  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on November 12, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Leah Peters  

Address Family Medicine  
University of Manitoba  
P228-770 Bannatyne Avenue  
Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3E 0W3  

Websites of Interest [ About Our Program:
](http://umanitoba.ca/healthsciences/medicine/units/family_medicine/)  
[ Provincial Criteria for Manitoba: ](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-
residency-match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Tamara Buchel

Title: Postgraduate Program Director

  

Name: Shannon Rankin

Title: Postgraduate Program Coordinator

Email: shannon.rankin@umanitoba.ca

  

Name: Dr. Kevin Earl

Title: Site Medical Lead

  

Name: Dr. Sherwin Gacutan

Title: Site Education Director

  

* * *

# Important Information

The University of Manitoba campuses are located on original lands of
Anishinaabeg, Cree, Oji-Cree, Dakota, and Dene peoples, and on the homeland of
the Métis Nation. The Department of Family Medicine additionally participates
in clinical programs in Inuit communities. We respect the Treaties and
Agreements that were made on these territories, we acknowledge the harms and
mistakes of the past, and we dedicate ourselves to move forward in partnership
with Indigenous communities in a spirit of reconciliation and collaboration.



**ZOOM INFORMATION SESSIONS:**

CaRMS General Overview session:  Thursday, November 14 from 7:00-8:30pm CST
via Zoom.

**Main Program Overview Zoom Link:**

<https://umanitoba.zoom.us/j/65400352768?pwd=F3Mg29YkJ3dbJRr64a4c0nLIYZNPKm.1>



CaRMS Information Deeper Dive – Bilingual & Rural Programs: Tuesday, November
26 from 7:00-8:30pm CST via Zoom

**Rural and Bilingual Deep Dive Zoom Session:**

<https://umanitoba.zoom.us/meeting/register/u5AtdeiorDoiG9wr0ShLbzIQlXGdG80srGdS>



CaRMS Information - Resident Sessions (hosted by our Lead Residents):
7:00-8:00pm CST via Zoom

  * Wednesday, December 4
  * <https://umanitoba.zoom.us/meeting/register/u5wqceitqj8jGdY0qYbQyI6rwtQmBf4mDrUG>
  *   * Wednesday, December 11
  * <https://umanitoba.zoom.us/meeting/register/u5wrdO6pqDsiHtJQsk0cYSRps04Ei3XfQoS1>



**MANDATORY ORIENTATION SESSIONS:**

The mandatory full day **Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation**  for all
residents will be held on Thursday, June 26, 2025.

The mandatory full day **Family Medicine Residency Orientation  **will be held
on Friday, June 27, 2025



**Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS)**

Prior to the commencement of training, matched applicants must provide proof
of ACLS certification that is current as of July 1, 2024. The ACLS Provider
course must be certified by the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada or the
American Heart Association. ACLS training that is not certified by one of
these two organizations and/or is completed entirely through an online course
will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for all costs associated with
obtaining ACLS certification. We provide a re-certification course in your
second year of residency prior to graduation.



**Family Medicine Professional Choices (FMProC)**

The Family Medicine Professional Choices (FMProC) testing is mandatory for all
applicants. It is a situational judgement test designed to evaluate your
professional reasoning, communication skills and aptitude for responding
effectively to diverse clinical situations. It primarily consists of two types
of questions: ranking and rating scenarios.

FMProC registration for the first round of CaRMS 2025 will be open on
September 11, 2024. More details: <https://fmproc.com/>

Situational judgement tests are designed to assess applicant’s judgement
regarding situations encountered in the workplace or during training.
Applicants are presented with a set of hypothetical based scenarios and asked
to make judgements about possible responses. Applicants responses are
evaluated against a pre-determined scoring key to provide a picture of their
situational judgement in that particular context.

The development and modification of the scenarios in FMProC involved input
from several leaders with different perspectives, roles and experiences. This
included family physicians, educators, family medicine residents and medical
students, Indigenous health, rural and remote family medicine, 2SLGBTQ+, anti-
racism, international medical graduates and more. This specifically included
groups under-represented in medicine to ensure, as much as possible, that no
group is disadvantaged by the test format or content.

**Resident Home Location and Travel Requirements**

As a resident in the Boundary Trails stream, you will be expected to maintain
a residence in the Winkler/Morden area.

**Vacation Allowance**

Vacation in PGY1 can be taken in the following ways:

  * Two weeks in each of two blocks in conjunction with an approved elective or Family Medicine Block Time in the remaining two weeks of the same blocks
  * Vacation in 1 week blocks can be taken during Family Medicine Block Time
  * One 4 week vacation block

_*Vacation is not allowed in Block 1 in PGY1.  _

Though the program tries to accommodate residents’ specific vacation period
requests, constraints of scheduling often requires flexibility and not all
requests will be approved.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

**You are required to fulfill ALL of the most current Provincial Criteria for
Canadian Medical Graduates for Manitoba.**

The criteria can be found at:  <https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/>





Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Examinations

Required

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Three (3) Family Medicine Structured Reference Letters are required. Please
select supervisors, preceptors or other individuals who have had ample
opportunity to assess you as a candidate for Family Medicine. Ideally one of
your letters should be from a family physician but this is not mandatory.

All three (3) Family Medicine Structured Reference Letters must be current and
dated on or after January 1, 2024. Undated reference letters will not be
accepted.  Do not arrange for more than three (3) Family Medicine Structured
Reference Letters as additional letters will not be reviewed.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

A personal letter is required. We are looking for mature, enthusiastic
physicians who bring with them a broad range of life experiences, are
committed to providing excellent patient care and can embrace the depth and
breadth of experiences our program offers.

In 500 words or less, please address the following areas:  What life
experiences demonstrate your adaptability, team skills, leadership potential,
and sense of compassion?  Why do you feel the University of Manitoba would be
the right choice for you?  In what ways are you connected to Manitoba?



Custom Résumé / CV

Include a current CV in the Custom Resume section.  Please tailor your resume
to provide us with a better understanding of your experiences and commitment
to Family Medicine.

Optional - will be reviewed

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Self-identification questionnaire

  * The University of Manitoba, Rady Faculty of Health Sciences promotes and supports a community that embraces equity, diversity and inclusion, provides for equality of opportunity and recognizes the dignity of all people. These are key values to create an inclusive community for all. The University encourages applications from Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women, persons of a minority sexual orientation and/or gender identity, and all candidates who would contribute to the diversity of our community.
  * We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self-Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete confidentiality. We are in the data collection phase currently.  Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self-identification questionnaire, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so, the information received would only be used for program selection improvement in future years. It will not be used for selection purposes this year. Any self-identification questionnaires received will NOT be reviewed as part of our file review process or used as an aid for file reviewers for the 2024 match.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applicants must apply to, and rank each of the University of Manitoba Family
Medicine programs individually. There is one central review process.

The same personal letter should be used for all University of Manitoba Family
Medicine applications.

There will be only one interview irrespective of the number of programs to
which you apply; there may be specific additional questions based on your
program interests.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Tuesday, January 21, 2025  
  
Wednesday, January 22, 2025  
  
Thursday, January 23, 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Applicants who are invited for
interview will participate in one structured interview, regardless of the
number of sites to which you have applied. The structured interview may have
questions specific to the sites to which you have applied.  
  
The interview is conducted as a 3-person panel interview and typically
consists of 1 physician, 1 interprofessional faculty member, and 1 resident.  
  
Candidates will be invited to attend one of the three interview days. The
interview itself lasts 30 to 40 minutes.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The Department of Family Medicine at the University of Manitoba is committed
to a fair, equitable, and transparent selection process.

To address the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences commitment to equity, diversity
and inclusion we take proactive measures including implicit bias training for
all selection committees. We strive for diversity and cultural safety
throughout the process (hiring panels, short-list of candidates, interviews).
We encourage you to self-identify any aspect of diversity in your personal
statement.

All CMG applicants will have a comprehensive and structured review of their
CaRMS file including the personal letter, MSPR, CV and letters of reference.
The review will be conducted by faculty, clinic staff and current residents
from any site, regardless of the sites to which you have applied. Selection
for interview will be determined by the outcome of the file review.

Applicants who are invited for interview will participate in one structured
interview, regardless of the number of sites to which you have applied. The
structured interview may have questions specific to the sites to which you
have applied.

The rank order list is generated specific to each site based upon your file
review, your interview, and your FMProC score.

## Program goals

Program Goals

The University of Manitoba is committed to the social justice principles of
equity, access and participation and to promoting opportunities for
systemically marginalized groups who have been excluded from full
participation at the University and the larger community including Indigenous,
Black, racially marginalized Peoples, persons with disabilities and those who
identify as 2SLGBTQIA+ (Two Spirit, lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans,
questioning, intersex, asexual and other diverse sexual identities) and women.

A broad knowledge base and clinical skill sets enable family physicians to
work in diverse settings such as patients' homes, outpatient clinics,
emergency departments, labour and delivery suites, hospital wards, and nursing
homes. Family medicine often serves as the main entry point to the health care
system and the hub that provides continuity of care throughout the life cycle.
As such, family medicine is the central medical discipline. The importance of
primary care in quality of health and the value Canadian society places on
family physicians in the delivery of this care are well known.

The goal of our residency program is to train family physicians who are able
to provide comprehensive, high quality, continuous care in urban, rural, or
remote settings.

## Selection process goals

An inclusive, open and diverse community is essential to excellence and
fosters voices that have been ignored or discouraged. To address the Rady
Faculty of Health Sciences commitment to equity, access and participation, and
in recognition of the underrepresentation of members of historically and
currently excluded groups,  our program has taken the following proactive
measures as part of our selection process:

Implicit bias training for all selection committee members, diverse
representation of selection committee members, inclusion of interview
questions targeted to assess applicant commitment to EDIA, offering necessary
accommodations during the interview process, second pass/review of applicants
below interview and rank order list cut off to review for possible bias in
scoring, orientation to all assessors to scoring rubrics, file review
completed by dedicated, trained group.

We strive for diverse perspectives and cultural safety throughout the hiring
process (resident selection committees, short-list of applicants, interviews).
We ask all applicants to include an EDIA statement in their personal letter
with evidence demonstrating their own commitment to EDIA in their work and
training thus far.

## File review process

Review team composition : The file review teams consist of Family Medicine
physicians, current residents and interprofessional faculty.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 601 +  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Comprehensive and well organized document   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Family Medicine or broad range of interests   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  FMProC   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Well rounded activities other than academics   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Initiative and able to problem solve   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evaluate according to the info provided by school   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  500 words or less   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  3 standardized reference letters   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Variety   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evaluate according to info provided by school   
Other file component(s) |  Familiarity with the Canadian Health Care System. Identifies interest in Family Medicine.  
  
We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self-
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self-
identification questionnaire, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so,
the information received would only be used for program selection improvement
in future years. It will not be used for selection purposes this year. Any
self-identification questionnaires received will NOT be reviewed as part of
our file review process or used as an aid for file reviewers for the 2024
match.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

An elective in Family Medicine either in Manitoba or elsewhere, completed
before file review, is not required for application to the University of
Manitoba Family Medicine Programs. However, we are looking for a demonstration
of interest in, and commitment to Family Medicine.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Interprofessional collaboration   
Collegiality |  Treats others with respect & knows professional boundaries   
Communication skills |  Ability to listen and communicate in a clear manner   
Health advocacy |  Affirming and sharing the vision and values of health promotion   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrates genuine interest through electives, extra curricular activities, volunteering, etc.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrates ongoing commitment to Family Medicine   
Leadership skills |  Ability to guide and help others   
Professionalism |  Carry themselves in a professional manner   
Scholarly activities |  Pursuing further education, previous accomplishments   
Other interview component(s) |  Commitment to underserved populations, resilience   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

# Overview of Department

#### <https://umanitoba.ca/medicine/department-family-medicine>

The University of Manitoba is committed to the social justice principles of
equity, access & participation and to promoting opportunities for systemically
marginalized groups who have been excluded from full participation at the
University and the larger community including Indigenous, Black, racially
marginalized Peoples, persons with disabilities and those who identify as
2SLGBTQIA+ (Two Spirit, lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, questioning, intersex,
asexual and other diverse sexual identities) and women.

For more than 40 years, the University of Manitoba’s Department of Family
Medicine has been positively influencing the health of individuals, families
and communities across Manitoba. Through clinical work, teaching and
innovative research, family medicine is making a difference.

We offer residents the chance to learn with interprofessional faculty, such as
dietitians, pharmacists, nurse practitioners and other health care
professionals. This collaborative learning model teaches our students and
residents the basic principles of health care professions, when to use them in
their care of patients and how to make appropriate referrals.

This program, accredited by the College of Family Physicians of Canada,
promotes whole-person medicine through a combination of patient-centred care
and structured seminars. During clerkship, learners are distributed in over 20
communities throughout Manitoba.

Family Medicine is a wide-ranging discipline, with the chance to impact a
diverse spectrum of patients in various communities. Manitoba is one of the
most diverse provinces in the country, providing an excellent opportunity to
work with patients from a variety of backgrounds.

  

## Training Passionate Family Physicians

After completing a four-year undergraduate degree in Medicine, students who
enter the two-year Family Medicine residency choose a learning stream tailored
to their practice interests.

Here is a video with a general overview of our Family Medicine Program at the
University of Manitoba.

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5vieoIArQFM&list=PLCNj2OCRLILF6vOq6gtxYSY3_M-
wuE57r&index=6](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5vieoIArQFM&list=PLCNj2OCRLILF6vOq6gtxYSY3_M-
wuE57r&index=6)

### Streams:

  * Urban
  * Northern Remote
  * Northern Thompson
  * Bilingual
  * Rural - Boundary Trails
  * Rural - Brandon
  * Rural - Interlake Eastern
  * Rural - Neepawa
  * Rural - Parkland
  * Rural - Portage la Prairie
  * Rural - Steinbach
  * Integrated Clinician Scholar (3 year program)

 Each stream provides a broad and balanced experience that prepares well-
rounded family physicians who can practice with confidence in a variety of
settings.

## Enhanced Training

In addition to the postgraduate program, Family Medicine also offers enhanced
skills training which allows Family Medicine doctors to continually shape and
reshape their careers. Enhanced training is available in the following areas:

  * Addictions
  * FM Anesthesia
  * Cancer Care
  * Care of the Elderly
  * Emergency Medicine
  * Obstetrical Surgical Skills
  * Palliative Care
  * Sports & Exercise Medicine

This training requires an additional 6–12 months of study. Residents finishing
their second year and practicing family physicians may apply.

## Inspiring Young Minds - Our Faculty

The Department of Family Medicine has over 500 faculty members who excel at
sharing knowledge, building competencies, and maximizing learning
opportunities for students.

Our faculty are integral participants in all stages of medical education. Some
have major Undergraduate teaching roles, providing comprehensive Family
Medicine and generalist content as well as their unique perspectives on health
care.

## Integrative Medicine in Residency Program Option

The Integrative Medicine in Residency (IMR) program is a two-year program of
study exploring the integration of Complementary and Alternative therapies
with conventional family practice in an evidence-based manner. This program is
being offered in conjunction with the University of Arizona Center for
Integrative Medicine, and is a 200-hour, interactive web-based curriculum that
is completed longitudinally alongside the Family Medicine residency program.
This program option is available to residents in all streams. Visit the
[Integrative Medicine in Residency
Program](http://umanitoba.ca/faculties/health_sciences/medicine/units/family_medicine/postgrad/integrative-
med.html) page for full details.

## Innovative Research

The Department of Family Medicine provides exciting opportunities to perform
research with practical outcomes on the health of Canadians. The department
promotes and supports the development of research skills and provides
workshops to all Family Medicine residents.

# **Courses Offered for Residents in Family Medicine***

**Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS)**

Prior to the commencement of training, matched applicants must provide proof
of ACLS certification that is current as of July 1, 2024. The ACLS Provider
course must be certified by the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada or the
American Heart Association. ACLS training that is not certified by one of
these two organizations and/or is completed entirely through an online course
will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for all costs associated with
obtaining ACLS certification. We provide a re-certification course in your
second year of residency prior to graduation.

**Advances in Labour and Risk Management (ALARM)**

We mandate ALARM training during the residency and provide reimbursement upon
successful completion.

**Advanced Trauma Life Support (ATLS)**

We mandate ATLS training during the residency and provide reimbursement upon
successful completion for all non-urban residents.

**Indigenous Cultures Awareness Workshop (ICAW)**

We mandate ICAW training during residency.

**Neonatal Resuscitation Program (NRP)**

We mandate NRP during residency and provide reimbursement upon successful
completion.

**Ultrasound Curriculum**

Ultrasound curriculum is mandatory and provided for all residents.

_*subject to change_



# **Scholarly Curriculum***

Scholarly activities in our program include:

\- participation in monthly Journal Clubs

\- presentations at patient case rounds and regular guideline appraisals

\- didactic teaching  

- formal Quality Improvement curriculum

\- Critical Appraisal assignments

\- PEARLS exercises as offered through the College of Family Physicians of
Canada

\- Academic Days throughout the year

\- additional core curriculum as mandated by PGME for all postgraduate program
residents

_* subject to change_

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Family Medicine Training for Boundary Trails residents is done in the context
of the rural community. As Boundary Trails Clinical Teaching Unit (CTU) is a
home unit, residents will do both first and second year Family Medicine block
time here.

The Boundary Trails Clinical Teaching Unit (CTU) in the Boundary Trails Health
Centre is situated between the City of Winkler (population 12,005) and the
City of Morden (population 7800). The Boundary Trails Health Centre serves as
a regional referral centre for the south central area (regional population
approximately 50,000).

For Family Medicine training, residents are paired with a primary preceptor
and their busy fee-for-service rural practice at the Menzies Medical Centre or
the C.W. Wiebe Medical Centre. The medical clinics in total have:

46 family practitioners (16 in Morden and 29 in Winkler)

4 general surgeons

5 orthopaedic surgeons

1 neurologist

4 gynecologists/obstetricians

1 pediatrician

Family physicians in these clinics have specialty training in areas such as:

\- chemotherapy

\- hemo-dialysis

\- obstetrics

\- addiction medicine

\- palliative care

\- women's health

\- anesthesia

\- sports medicine

Family medicine experiences include outpatient clinics, caring for your
patients admitted to the hospital, and home visits.  Protected time is
provided for horizontal experiences in the areas of psychiatry, psycho-
geriatrics, geriatrics, sports medicine, gynecology, pediatrics and community
medicine. We pride ourselves in our delivery of evidence-based medicine and
our ability to allow you to develop your clinical and procedural skills
essential to functioning as a rural family physician.

Winkler/Morden are medium-sized rural communities that have a wonderful blend
of small-town doctor "culture" and well-resourced medical centres/hospital.
You will become immersed in the community and will practice full-spectrum
Family Medicine with a lot of hands on experience where you, the Family
Medicine resident, are central to the structure. Please see our "Training
Sites" section for more details on this site.

**PEDIATRIC EMERGENCY**

A four-week pediatric rotation is based in Winnipeg and includes time in the
Emergency Department at the Children's. There is a wide range of clinical
experiences including consultation within the hospital and in the Emergency
Department.

A second block is done horizontally at Boundary Trails Health Centre and in
2nd year there is a block of Pediatric In-Patients which includes care of
children in the hospital and walk-in clinics, in addition to visits to a
pediatrician’s office in Winnipeg.

**ICU / CCU**

This rotation is based in a Winnipeg community hospital with a focus on both
coronary care and intensive care medicine. There are a wide range of clinical
experiences including consultation within the hospital and in the Emergency
Department.

**INTERNAL MEDICINE**

This two-block rotation is based out of Winnipeg with a focus on demonstrating
knowledge, clinical and technical skills and decision-making capabilities
pertinent to the management of patients with medical problems.

**OBSTETRICS**

This two block rotation located at Boundary Trails demonstrates focus on
providing pre-conception, pre-natal & intra-partum care.  Residents learn
essential skills to perform low-risk deliveries, recognize & manage common
intra-partum emergencies & provide postpartum care. Along with these two
dedicated blocks, obstetrics is also performed horizontally during FMBT.

**PALLIATIVE MEDICINE**

Winnipeg has one of the longest-standing traditions in Canada in providing
hospital and community palliative care to its citizens. The Palliative Care
rotation has been evaluated by residents as one of the most rewarding and
unique to their Family Medicine training. Skills taught by palliative care
family physician specialists enable residents to gain skills essential to
providing symptom-based care to both patients struggling with chronic illness
and during end-of-life care. Currently, Boundary Trails CTU is developing a
similar program.

**SURGERY**

One block based out of Boundary Trails is dedicated to the diagnosis and pre
and post-management of common surgical illnesses. Suturing materials and
techniques are taught/practiced in addition to techniques of assisting,
approach to excision of common lesions & the understanding of consent &
obtaining consent.

** **

**BEHAVIOURAL MEDICINE**

An integrated approach to behavioural medicine is utilized during your Family
Medicine experiences.

Key areas include:

\- Mental health concerns (curriculum in consultation with Department of
Psychiatry)

\- Helping patients develop coping skills

\- Knowledge of community resources

\- Communication skills

Psychiatric topics covered at Academic Days and Wednesday morning teaching
sessions provide the didactic portion of this experience. You will also
experience an additional one week (7-day) segment working with psychiatrists
at Eden Mental Health Centre focusing on management of common mental health
problems.

**NUTRITION EDUCATION & CARE**

Full-time dietitians in both the clinics and at Boundary Trails Health Centre
provide experience in office management of nutritional concerns that are
common to family practice such as:

Diabetes

Cardiovascular Illness

Weight Management

In addition, there are opportunities for enhancement of health promotion
skills through education to community groups.



* * *

# Training Sites

**Boundary Trails site video:**

[**https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4rYmnN6nFe8
&list=PLCNj2OCRLILF6vOq6gtxYSY3_M-
wuE57r&index=8**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4rYmnN6nFe8&list=PLCNj2OCRLILF6vOq6gtxYSY3_M-
wuE57r&index=8)

**Major Strengths of the Boundary Trails Rural Stream**

  * University of Manitoba rural residents have demonstrated that they are prepared for rural practice. Since 2010, the majority of our graduates have entered into rural practice; many of which have also completed enhanced skills programs. 
  * University of Manitoba was recognized in 2005 as one of the top 3 rural medical school programs in Canada, through the Keith Award by the Society of Rural Physicians of Canada (www.srpc.ca/KeithAwards2005.html). This award is based on analysis of graduates from the University of Manitoba that were practicing in rural communities in 1998 and 2004. We consistently demonstrate the ability to train rural family physicians to meet the medical needs of those 31% of Canadians who live in rural regions.
  * Boundary Trails residents who have graduated and went on to enhanced skills programs, have completed plus one programs in Anesthesia, Palliative Care, Women’s Health & Obstetrics and Sports Medicine.
  * An experienced and active rural teaching unit, with the lowest preceptor to trainee ratio possible, with little competition from other multi-level learners.
  * Large clinical volumes with excellent variety of patients.
  * Frequent opportunities to perfect your procedural skills through clinical encounters as well as procedural labs.
  * Diversity of training sites offers experience in rural medicine within small (population 1000) to larger communities (population 10,000).  
  * Continuity of care within your preceptor’s practice is an educational priority, which we achieve through six blocks of Family Medicine Block time.
  * An integrated curriculum providing training in psychiatry, optometry, obstetrics, gynecology, geriatrics, community medicine, psychosocial counselling, nutrition, surgical skills, anesthesia, pediatrics and ER.
  * Monthly academic days in small group learning environments, rural Continuing Medical Education (CME), and resident-driven teaching rounds and journal clubs.
  * We ensure that residents receive exposure to our unique, rural industry and communities (i.e. agriculture, Hutterite colonies, etc) so as to enhance the understanding of farm injuries, access issues to health care, and lifestyle issues of the rural populations.
  * In keeping with trends in technology we now have our own website to showcase our program and communities: <https://bthc-ctu.ca/>



  * As Boundary Trails Clinical Teaching Unit is a home unit, residents are based here for their Family Medicine block time in both first and second years.
  * At this site, multiple learners will be together at the same time (typically 2 - 4 medical students, elective students & residents (airway, obstetrics, ER, palliative care, sports med), and 8 CaRMS-matched Family Medicine residents). This diversity of learners enhances the learning environment.
  * Boundary Trails CTU is a partnership between the C.W. Wiebe Medical Centre, Menzies Medical Centre, The Boundary Trails Health Centre, the City of Morden, the City of Winkler, the RM of Stanley, Southern Health Santé Sud and the University of Manitoba. Located in the beautiful Pembina Valley Region, the Boundary Trails CTU provides learners with a wide variety of opportunities while experiencing our exciting and diverse communities.
  * Learners placed within the Boundary Trails CTU are linked with one of the clinics, either Morden (Menzies Medical Centre) or Winkler (C. W. Wiebe Medical Centre). Both clinics host Electronic Medical Records (Winkler InputHealth, Morden Accuro), and are part of the My Health Care Team network. The clinics are community owned and host both contract and fee for service physicians.



  * The Boundary Trails Health Centre (BTHC) is a 94-bed acute care facility providing quality health care services to the community and surrounding area of 40,000 – 50,000 people. BTHC is the largest regional health centre in Southern Health-Santé Sud providing progressive primary, secondary and community health care to the residents of Southern Manitoba. BTHC features a full complement of services, including home care, public health, mental health, emergency, ambulatory care clinics, intensive care, observation, diagnostics, laboratory, medical, surgery, day surgery, obstetrics, chemotherapy, dialysis, rehab/assess and rehab services, e.g. OT/PT, speech & audiology.



* * *

# Additional Information

**TRANSPORTATION**

As you will need to move frequently within the city and province between
training sites, you will need to secure a means of transportation.  You may
find it easiest to maintain a personal vehicle.

**Additional Points to Consider:**

  * Cost of living is one of the most affordable in Canada.
  * Full access to University of Manitoba library and its electronic resources, including UpToDate.
  * Competitive resident salaries with a solid resident contract including a well-supported maternity/paternity leave policy.  [http://www.parim.org](http://www.parim.org/)
  * Membership and registration fees are covered for University of Manitoba, College of Family Physicians and Surgeons of Manitoba, Canadian Medical Protective Association, and the initial membership in the College of Family Physicians of Canada for PGY1 year.
  * Annual two day resident retreat held in a community outside of Winnipeg.
  * All mandatory course fees are reimbursed upon successful completion. Examples of mandatory courses include: NRP, ALARM, ATLS, PALS, BLS and ACLS recertification. Mandatory courses vary between programs.
  * Travel costs and accommodation are provided for mandatory offsite rotations.

**WHAT ABOUT FUN ON THE PRAIRIES?**

The City of Winkler and City of Morden are scenically located on the Pembina
escarpment and approximately 20 minutes north of the U.S. border. Both Morden
and Winkler offer a wealth of fun opportunities outside of the work setting
such as:

Sporting activities throughout the year ranging from curling, hockey, squash,
tennis, baseball, basketball, volleyball (indoor and beach) and archery to
name just a few.

For the golf enthusiasts, there are two beautiful 18-hole golf courses, one in
Winkler and the other just outside of Morden which host many popular golf
tournaments.

Colert Beach in Morden and the Winkler Aquatic Centre offer camping and
swimming.

The beautiful, rolling Pembina Hills provide quick access to hiking, camping,
golfing, biking, boating, and cross-country skiing.

For the avid fishermen/women we have goldeye, carp, catfish, sucker, rock bass
and walleye in local waters, to name a few.

Cultural activities are available in both communities year-round, and there
are active community bands that are always in search of musicians.

Two major festivals are celebrated annually, the Winkler Harvest Festival and
the Morden Corn and Apple Festival.

Websites of Interest:

[http://www.cityofwinkler.ca](http://www.cityofwinkler.ca/)

[http://www.cwwiebemedical.ca](http://www.cwwiebemedical.ca/)

[http://www.winklergolfcourse.com](http://www.winklergolfcourse.com/)

[http://www.winklerflyers.com](http://www.winklerflyers.com/)

[http://www.mordenmb.com](http://www.mordenmb.com/)

[http://www.agassizmedicalcentre.com](http://www.agassizmedicalcentre.com/)

[http://www.golfminnewasta.com](http://www.golfminnewasta.com/)

<http://www.southernhealth.ca/>





* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27026?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27026