#  University of Saskatchewan - Neurology - Saskatoon

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 19, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Sean Cooley  
Dr. Paul Masiowski  

Address Neurology Residency Program  
Division of Neurology  
Royal University Hospital - 103 Hospital Drive  
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, S7N 0W8  

Work  (306) 844-1483

Fax  (306) 844-1525

Websites of Interest [ Neurology Resident's Webpage
](http://www.medicine.usask.ca/medicine/divisions/neurology/index.html)  
[ Explore the Neurology program at the U of S
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-GaCcWJf8B0&list=PLh39DxXdNODVX3U0xQZhFWNHCpeVthZxT&index=3)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Paul Masiowski & Dr. Regan Cooley

Title: Program Directors

Email: angela.loehndorf@usask.ca

  

Name: Angela Loehndorf

Title: Program Administrator

Email: angela.loehndorf@usask.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Applicants are responsible for reviewing the [University of Saskatchewan
Policies for the R-1 Match](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/saskatchewan/) to determine if they meet all
requirements and eligibility criteria. Failure to meet or provide proof of any
of the stated requirements or documents may result in an applicant’s file not
being reviewed or ranked.

**Casper Test**  
All applicants must complete the Casper test. Please refer to the Examinations
section for more information.

**Licensing  
** Matched applicants must be eligible for an educational register license
with the [College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Registration___Licensure/web/Applicants/Licensure/Registration_and_Licensure_Landing.aspx?hkey=75b022f8-df64-4f34-8e2a-a09bea881787)
(CPSS) for a July 1st start date and must maintain eligibility for an
educational register license throughout their entire training program. Matched
applicants who are graduating in the spring will need to provide a copy of
their medical degree/diploma to the PGME office and the College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Saskatchewan (CPSS) prior to the start of residency training.
Any delays in providing all required documentation to CPSS may result in the
following:

  * delay in issuance of an educational register license and a delay in start of postgraduate training beyond July 1st
  * release from CaRMS match contract

**Applicants completing medical education at the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)**  are
required to submit proof of English language proficiency before the rank order
deadline to demonstrate they meet CPSS requirements. More information is
available under Supporting Documentation-Language Proficiency.

**NOTE:**  Applicants who are considering a delay to their convocation date
must be aware that a medical degree cannot be issued to a student until they
have convocated. CPSS bylaws require that new residents must have received
their medical degree prior to the commencement of residency training. Choosing
to delay convocation will affect a matched applicant’s ability to commence
their residency training program in Saskatchewan on July 1. Please refer to
the [U of S CaRMS Deferral Policy](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/carms-
deferral-of-training-start-date---match-violation-release-from-
match.php#relatedForms) for additional information.

**Credentialing**  
In order to commence and continue in Postgraduate Medical Education training
programs, matched applicants must be eligible for and maintain privileges
within the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) as determined by their
credentialing process. The Saskatchewan Health Authority requires successful
applicants to submit immunization records and a current criminal record check
as part of their pre-resident application for appointment. Applicants with
criminal records will be considered on a case by case basis by the College of
Medicine in consultation with the Health Authority.

Any delays in providing all required documentation to the Saskatchewan Health
Authority may result in a delay in the start of postgraduate training beyond
July 1st.

**Resident Boot Camp  
** All matched applicants must attend a mandatory three-day Resident Boot Camp
scheduled for late June. The purpose of the Boot Camp is to provide additional
support to trainees as they transition to residency by introducing and
consolidating baseline skills and knowledge needed to flourish during their
residency years. The program will include interactive case-based and hands-on
practice sessions. Stipends will be provided to trainees.

Attendance is required and absences are only permitted in exceptional
circumstances, with prior approval of PGME.

**Advanced Cardiac Life Support  
** Matched applicants are required to provide proof of ACLS certification
(current as of July 1, 2025) to the PGME office prior to starting their
training program. The ACLS course must be endorsed by the Heart and Stroke
Foundation of Canada and/or the American Heart Association. ACLS training that
is not certified by these two organizations and/or is completed entirely
through an online course will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for
all costs associated with obtaining ACLS certification.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

All applicants must be Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents at the time of
application and must submit a notarized/certified photocopy of one of the
accepted citizenship documents.

Proof of citizenship must be current at the time of application and expired
documents will not be accepted.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum of 7.0 in each of the components

**Language assessment document accepted:**

  1. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on paper at a test venue
  2. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on a computer at a test venue
  3. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine at Home

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum grade of B

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of 9 in all sections

Applicants may be required to provide proof of proficiency in the English
language to meet licensing requirements of the [College of Physicians and
Surgeons (CPSS) of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Licensure/Requirements_Content/English_Language_Proficiency.aspx).

Applicants who graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States,
where English is the language of instruction **are not**  required to submit
proof of English language proficiency.

**Canadian applicants with medical education from the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)  are required
**to meet the English language proficiency requirements of the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan and must complete one of the language
exams listed above.

Applicants who are required to complete a language exam must submit a valid
test score in their CaRMS application **by the deadline for submission and
assignment of applications and documents.** Applicants who do not provide
acceptable proof of language proficiency, if required, will not be ranked.

Applicants must meet all of the criteria in one of the IELTS, OET or CELPIP
examinations. Please note that results from examinations cannot be combined,
unless the testing institution offers a sub-test.  
NOTE: Only OET offers sub-tests. CPSS will accept sub-tests obtained within
the same 24-month period as the original OET exam was sat.

Please direct any questions about language requirements to
[della.toews@usask.ca](mailto:della.toews@usask.ca). Applicants should not
contact CPSS directly about their eligibility for licensure.

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Optional - will be reviewed

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

A personal letter must be submitted (not to exceed 500 words).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

There is no guarantee that applications or documents submitted after the
deadline will be considered.  Decisions will be made on a case-by-case basis
whether or not applications and documents will be accepted after the File
Review begins.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 28, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Our interview day will be Tuesday, January
28, 2025. All interviews will be held virtually.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Candidates will be interviewed by
staff neurologists and residents. There will be a virtual overview of the
program. Candidates will be able to take a virtual tour of Royal University
Hospital.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We aim to find candidates with a passion for the clinical practice and science
of Neurology. We expect that candidates will have done some clinical training
in Neurology in their core rotations and/or electives.  Candidates who have
excelled in Neurology and who can give a clear account of their motivation to
pursue further training in this area will be given the highest consideration.
The desire to become an excellent physician with a patient-centered approach
is at the core of the selection process.  

## Program goals

We strive to develop excellence in our residents, helping them become well-
rounded experts in delivery of care to Neurology patients. We place the
highest value on a collegial and resident focused learning environment,
ensuring protected time for learning, and a commitment to quality education.
We also demonstrate a highly patient-focused approach and emphasize
communication and compassion in our daily work.  

## Selection process goals

Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability to interact appropriately
with patients and colleagues alike.

Identify applicants with an interest in Neurology, and those who will develop
into exceptional neurologists.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated the attributes highlighted in the
CanMEDS roles.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated an ability and enthusiasm to learn,
and who are able to adapt to the various demands of Neurology residency
training.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team is composed of the Program
Directors, Program Administrator, residents and designated faculty members.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
Our program has received less than 50 applications per year, over the last
five years. The number of applicants has been increasing and is expected to
continue to grow.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We evaluate the content, including research, publications, electives   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Clinical evaluations (in particular those from neurology or elective)   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  All applicants must complete a Casper exam to be eligible for consideration   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering (medical and non medical) and mentoring   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Holding office in a student government, club or organization   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstrated interpersonal skills   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in discipline and program location   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interaction with colleagues and patients   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in participating in future research projects   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
Other file component(s) |  MCCQE Part 1 results, academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high-quality patient care through working in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Behavior, attitude, ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak and write in English   
Health advocacy |  We do not evaluate this component   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated ability to play the role of the neurologist as a compassionate physician   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest in the Neurology Program at the University of Saskatchewan   
Leadership skills |  Involvement in the continuous development and improvement of medical care   
Professionalism |  Interactions with staff, faculty and residents   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Overview**

We are a small but growing division with an established record of producing
excellent clinical neurologists. Our graduates have consistently done well on
the Royal College exam and many have gone on to prestigious subspecialty
fellowships.  
  
The Neurology program strives to maintain an appropriate balance of service to
educational activities.  We have an academic half day covering clinical and
basic sciences with a structured curriculum in 2-year cycles.  In addition to
these structured teaching sessions, we offer bedside teaching by the attending
neurologists and senior residents, Neuroradiology rounds, Neurophysiology
rounds, Stroke rounds and Neurosciences Grand Rounds.  All academic sessions
are protected time for residents.  
  
Residents spend significant time working on the Neurology service early in
their residency, starting from the beginning of the first post-graduate year.
Junior residents work closely with staff neurologists seeing consults and
managing patients, and have their work on the Neurology ward supervised by a
senior resident.  There is also early exposure for Junior residents with
outpatient clinic opportunity in PGY1 to increase exposure to Neurology
outside of the hospital setting.  Senior residents are able to take on
significant responsibility for ward management, administrative work, and
clinical teaching of residents and medical students.  In third year, residents
begin a weekly clinic under the supervision of one of the staff neurologists
where patients are followed prospectively.  
  
There is flexibility in arranging electives and scheduling rotations in the
later years of training.  Residents are encouraged to pursue their own
interests in research, clinical training, and future fellowships.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Program Curriculum**

Each year of training is divided into 13 four-week blocks.

The schedule in the first two years is coordinated between the program
administrative assistants of Internal Medicine and Neurology and the Neurology
Residency Program Director, with the PGY1 and PGY2 years being split between
Neurology and Internal Medicine rotations.  Among the non-Neurology blocks,
residents do Internal Medicine wards (CTU), Intensive Care Unit (ICU), and
other three blocks of non-Neurology clinical rotations which may include
Infectious Disease, Respirology, Emergency Medicine, Endocrinology,
Geriatrics, General Internal Medicine, or Cardiology.  

The remainder of the PGY3 through PGY5 years are spent on Neurology, with
required rotations that include Pediatric Neurology, EMG, EEG, Neuropathology,
and Neuroradiology.  Senior residents spend more time in both general
Neurology and subspecialty clinics, and are responsible for their own weekly
clinic, under the supervision of one of the staff Neurologists.  They also
continue to do some ward rotations as the Senior Neurology Resident.
Residents may satisfy the training requirements for the EMG or EEG
subspecialty certifications without leaving Saskatoon, though most residents
who want to be certified in EMG or EEG do at least one or two rotations at
another institution to broaden their horizons.  The College of Medicine allows
out-of-province rotations for a maximum total duration of 6 months.

**Training Requirements PGY1 and PGY2**

Twenty-four (24) months of foundational training in Internal Medicine to
include:

  * Ten (10) months of clinical training in Internal Medicine (must include at least two (2) months on a General Internal Medicine clinical teaching unit (CTU) or its equivalent; at least one (1) month in Critical Care Medicine; at least one (1) month each in selective subspecialty rotations in Internal Medicine.
  * Fourteen (14) months of training pertinent to adult Neurology (must include a maximum of four (4) months of further clinical training in Internal Medicine; at least two (2) but no more than seven (7) months in clinical Neurology; at least three selective rotations of at least one (1) month in any of Psychiatry, Neurosurgery, Neuroradiology, Physical Medicine and Rehab, Emergency Medicine, Pain/Palliative Care, Neuro-Ophthalmology, Neuro-Oncology, Clinical Electrophysiology, Research).

**Training Requirements PGY3 to PGY 5**

Thirty Six (36) months of further residency training to include:

  * Twenty-four (24) months of clinical Neurology training (must include at least eighteen (18) months in adult Neurology to incorporate at least four (4) months in general or subspecialty Neurology clinics, six (6) months of direct patient care on a Neurology CTU of which at least two (2) months in PGY4 or PGY5 as a senior resident with increased responsibility, minimum of three (3) months in Pediatric Neurology.
  * Twelve (12) months of residency training or research pertinent to Neurology (to include at least two (2) months each in Neuropathology and Clinical Electrophysiology and at least one (1) month each in Neuroradiology and time devoted to a scholarly project).

**Content and Sequence of Training**

Over and above the minimum training requirements, we allow maximum flexibility
to tailor your training program to your individual learning needs and
interests.

If there are additional PGY2 and higher residents, the number of inpatient
Neurology Ward Senior Resident months may be reduced accordingly.

Residents in the PGY3 through PGY5 years will have weekly Senior Resident
Clinics supervised by one of the faculty.  Residents should not be expected to
attend Senior Resident Clinics when they are on the Neurology Ward.  
  
The PGY4 residents will have their Inpatient Neurology Senior Resident
rotations for the year completed by the end of December to allow time to
prepare for the FRCPC examinations.

**Inpatient Service**

There are 45 beds on the Neurosciences Ward (which includes Neurology and
Neurosurgery) at Royal University Hospital.  While there is no fixed amount
for either service, each Neurology Ward team is responsible for approximately
10-15 inpatients per day.  The teams are responsible for seeing consults in
Emergency or from other inpatient services.  The Ward teams are divided into
the Stroke team, which exclusively manages stroke patients, and the General
Neurology team.  Each team consists of a Senior Neurology Resident (PGY2 or
higher), 2-4 junior residents (including residents from other programs), and
1-2 medical students (Clerks), working under the supervision of the attending
neurologists.  Each inpatient Neurology block will have two PGY2 or higher-
level Neurology residents to act as the Senior Residents for the two teams; as
much as possible, the team Senior Resident role will be scheduled for the
second half of the PGY2 year.  

**Outpatient Clinics**

Residents do subspecialty as well as general Neurology clinics with both
University- and community-based neurologists.  Subspecialty clinics include
Stroke Prevention Clinic, Movement Disorders Clinic, Epilepsy Clinic, Dementia
Clinic, MS Clinic, and Neuromuscular Clinic.

PGY3 through PGY5 residents also have weekly clinics where patients are
followed prospectively under the supervision of one of the staff neurologists.

**Teaching**

We have an Academic Half Day on Wednesday afternoons from noon to 3 pm in the
Neurology library.  We follow an academic curriculum that repeats in 2-year
cycles, covering the essentials in clinical Neurology and basic Neurosciences.
Teaching sessions are based on up-to-date editions of standard texts, current
review articles, and the American Academy of Neurology's bimonthly
publication, _Continuum_.  Sessions are supervised by attending Neurologists
and senior residents, but led by junior residents.  Monthly Neuropathology
sessions and weekly Neuroradiology sessions are also covered.

Weekly Neuroradiology Rounds are at noon on Fridays, at which cases are
discussed, as well as a focus on teaching approaches to imaging
interpretation.

There are weekly Stroke Rounds involving Neurology, Neurosurgery, and lead by
a Neuroradiologist. The focus of these is discussion of cases, management,
imaging interpretation, and systems for stroke care.

We hold weekly EEG/EMG Rounds which cover basics of EEG and EMG
interpretations, and interesting clinical cases.

Monthly Movement Disorders Rounds involves presentations of videos and
discussion, and monthly Ethics rounds are based on cases from the American
Academy of Neurology (each held on Thursday at noon).

Neuroscience Grand Rounds are Friday mornings from 10 am to noon with a guest
speaker in the first hour followed by a resident-led case presentation in the
second hour.  Rounds are shared between Neurology, Neurosurgery and Pediatric
Neurology.

All of these teaching sessions are protected time for the residents.  They are
expected to sign out to someone for the duration of the session.  In addition
to these sessions, there is quarterly Journal Club (over dinner), with reviews
of papers including statistical methods.

Bedside and clinical teachings are conducted daily on the ward, supervised by
either the Senior Resident or the attending Neurologist, and involving junior
residents.

Formal bedside teaching sessions are held once a week.  These sessions
typically focus on physical examination technique, with one resident
performing an examination and discussing a case, supervised by numerous staff
Neurologists.  These are held in a combination of in-person, and virtual
forums.  

**On Call Duties**

Neurology call is in-house call.  Call is often busy during the day and
evening, though often not too busy after midnight.  Residents can be expected
to be on call up to one in four nights.  In practice however, residents rarely
do call more than one in five or six.  Call duties include management of the
inpatients under Neurology, as well as seeing new consults.  All consult
requests are screened by the neurologist on call.  Junior residents are
closely supervised, with increasing independence as one progresses.

PGY5 residents take Junior Consultant call where they answer outside phone
calls and supervise the junior on-call resident.  The attending neurologist is
available for backup if needed.  The frequency of Senior Resident call is no
more than four calls in 28 days, with no on-call duties for PGY5 residents
writing their Royal College examinations that year from the end of Block 7
until after the exams.

**Research**

Residents participate in Neurology Research days every year.  Residents are
encouraged to submit their work to national and international meetings.  Our
residents and faculty have an excellent track record in presentations,
publications and research awards.

* * *

# Training Sites

The Neurology inpatient service is located at [Royal University
Hospital](https://www.saskatoonhealthregion.ca/locations_services/locations/ruh)
in Saskatoon. Staff neurologists' clinics are located at RUH and in community
offices in Saskatoon. Residents share an office at RUH with online access to
neuroimaging (via PACS) and online access to medical journals. The Rajput
Neurology Library at RUH is stocked with current Neurology texts and serves as
a meeting room for teaching sessions.  
  
The College of Medicine at the University of Saskatchewan supports
distributive learning. The Program Director and Program Administrative
Assistant will assist in planning electives and time away from the main
program in Saskatoon.

**Distributive Learning at the University of Saskatchewan**

The College of Medicine, while physically located in Saskatoon, is a
provincial resource in attitude and in practice. Postgraduate medical
education at the University of Saskatchewan takes seriously its role in
supporting quality health care to all people of the province. This means
training physicians to meet the needs of not only urban populations but also
those of rural and remote populations. In so doing, the College of Medicine
has developed and continues to develop rotations in Regina and other
communities. These rotations are designed to provide educational experiences
to enhance the resident's knowledge and skills, and take maximum advantage of
unique educational opportunities in a diversity of communities. All
postgraduate programs are expected to develop and incorporate into their
curriculum, rotations in communities other than Saskatoon. The manner in which
each program does this is not strictly prescribed by the College of Medicine
but is determined by the Residency Program Committee, taking into
consideration the needs of their residents, and the excellent opportunities
available in other locations. These rotations continue to evolve as we seek to
build stronger and better programs.

Extensive support is available for rotations completed at other sites in the
province. The exact nature of this support varies with location and program.
The communities involved, individual programs, the College of Medicine, and
the Ministry of Health work collaboratively to ensure residents are not
financially disadvantaged by the need to relocate. Temporary housing is
available at no expense to residents who leave their home site to complete
short term mandatory rotations at distributed sites in Saskatchewan. Please
review the [PGME Housing Guidelines](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/pgme-
housing-guidelines-pgme-housing-application-for-short-term-mandatory-
rotation.php#relatedForms) for more detailed information.

While all residents are strongly encouraged to take advantage of educational
experiences in other communities to ensure a well rounded education, the
amount and format of such time is determined by the program committee.  

* * *

# Additional Information

### **Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada: Applying
competency**

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e), aims
to enhance patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning
with evolving patient needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in
their education process.

CBD will use time as a framework rather than the basis for progression. It is
not anticipated that the duration of training will change for the majority of
trainees. Residency programs will be broken down into stages, and each stage
will have a series of milestones based on required competencies. These
milestones will create more targeted learning outcomes and involve more
frequent, formative assessments within the clinical workplace to ensure
residents are developing and receiving feedback on the skills they need.

The Royal College anticipates that all specialty and subspecialty programs in
Canada will adopt CBD in gradual phases. All disciplines have been divided
into seven cohort groups, each of which will adopt CBD at different times. The
Neurology Program rolled out on July 1, 2020.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and
traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification. Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs
will include the completion of a Royal College examination; however, residents
in CBD programs will also be assessed against program milestones throughout
their training. Within a CBD program, all milestones (documented within an
electronic portfolio) and the Royal College examination must be successfully
completed to achieve certification.

For more information, please contact[ cbd@royal college.ca](cbd@royal
college.ca).

* * *

# FAQ

Strengths of this program:

\- Staff neurologists with a dedicated interest in your development

\- Collaborative and friendly atmosphere among residents with a yearly
resident retreat and multiple social events throughout the year

\- Research mentors available

\- Funding available for conference presentation and attendance

\- Flexible schedules tailored to your career interests

\- Out of province elective time

\- Very supportive administrative staff

\- Paid registrations to professional organizations (AAN, CNSF)



Benefits of being a resident in Saskatchewan:

\- The Resident Doctors of Saskatchewan contact applies to all residents
within the province and conveys multiple benefits:

    \- Three months off call prior to both Royal College Examinations

    \- One of the top salaries in the country

    \- Four weeks of vacation plus six days off over Christmas or New Years

    \- Full medical and dental coverage for you and your family

\- Affordable housing and rental opportunities

\- Short commuting time

\- Beautiful summers full of events and festivals

\- Amazing culinary scene

\- Fantastic lakes and beaches throughout Saskatchewan - perfect for canoeing,
camping, and other outdoor activities



Who can I speak with to gain a resident perspective of the program?

\- We are always excited to speak with prospective applicants. You can reach
our residents at saskneurology@gmail.com

We look forward to welcoming you to Saskatoon. Please see [Tourism
Saskatoon](https://www.tourismsaskatoon.com/) and [Saskatoon Regional Economic
Development Authority](https://sreda.com) websites for more information on
Saskatoon.



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27321?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27321