#  Western University - Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery - London  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 03, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Timothy Phillips  

Address Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery  
St. Joseph's Health Care London  
268 Grosvenor Street  
London, Ontario, N6A 4V2  

Work  (519) 646-6320

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Department of Otolaryngology - Head & Neck Surgery
](http://www.schulich.uwo.ca/otolaryngology/)  
[ Click this link for a short video introduction to our program.
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Aapm6ssix24&feature=youtu.be)  
[ You can also follow us on Instagram
](https://www.instagram.com/otohns_western/?igshid=b6jfq0l61g5q)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Brian Rotenberg

Title: Program Director

Email: Brian.Rotenberg@sjhc.london.on.ca

Phone: (519) 646-6320

  

Name: Ms. Angelika Edwards

Title: Program Assistant

Email: angelika.edwards@lhsc.on.ca

Phone: 519-777-8167 (Cell)

  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided (by submitting one
of the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.
Failure to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.
No other forms of verification are acceptable.  

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of card must be provided and legible.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three Letters of Reference maximum are required.  If more than three
references are submitted, they will not be considered.  References should be
from physicians with whom you have worked clinically, who can speak to your
suitability for, and interest in Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Word count limit is 500 words.

Custom Résumé / CV

Ophthalmological Report

Candidates should have their vision tested for stereoscopic vision and submit
this report with their application.





Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 25, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held virtually on
Saturday, January 25, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews are required and will be
granted at the discretion of the Residency Program Committee based on the
selection criteria outlined.  For the 2025 CaRMS match, all interviews will be
conducted virtually on Saturday, January 25, 2025.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

\- Demonstrated interest in Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery

\- Reference letters (as outlined above)

\- Interviews

\- Academic record & Curriculum vitae

\- Personal Letter





## Program goals

The mission of our training program is to provide outstanding, well-rounded
training to our trainees.  Graduates of our program will be skilled clinicians
and surgeons in all aspects of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, and
capable of entering into advanced community practice or further subspecialty
training.

It is expected that graduates will acquire and demonstrate competencies in all
of the CanMEDS roles as outlined by the Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Canada.  These competencies are organized into domains of Medical
Expert, Communicator, Collaborator, Manager, Health Care Advocate, Scholar,
and Professional.

These overall goals will be accomplished via a series of specifically designed
rotations and employing a graded escalation of responsibility commensurate
with the trainee's level of training and ability.



## Selection process goals

The successful applicant will have demonstrated the attributes expected of a
strong medical student with interest in becoming a Royal College certified
Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgeon, including various components such as
knowledge, scholarship, professionalism, and technical ability.  The
successful candidate will have shown the Selection Committee that they have a
sincere interest in training at Western University.  

## File review process

Review team composition : The Selection Committee will be comprised of members
of the OtoHNS department, who have a breadth of perspectives reflecting
program goals.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Custom CV reflecting personal and professional experiences.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We encourage applicants to have completed at least two electives in this specialty.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  As per CV - will be reviewed.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  As per CV - will be reviewed.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Required   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Originality of thought. Word count limit is 500 words.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  References should be from physicians with whom you have worked clinically, who can speak to your suitability for, and interest in Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Will be reviewed.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Required   
Other file component(s) |  Ophthalmological Report - Applicants should include proof of stereoscopic vision.  
  
The selection committee will value evidence of interest and aptitude in
Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery. Our program uses the following criteria
to select and rank candidates during the CaRMS process: subjective impression
of collegiality, maturity, and ability to work in a team, impression from
reference letters, formal and informal feedback from members of the Western
training program (staff and residents) if applicable, conduct and performance
during interview, originality of thought in personal statement, contents of CV
reflecting personal and professional experiences, clerkship evaluations, and
research experience.  
  
The program welcomes expressions of interest in training at Western via phone
call or email to the Program Director.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least two
electives in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We prefer applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Assessment based on file review, and interview.   
Collegiality |  Assessment based on file review, and interview.   
Communication skills |  Assessment based on file review, and interview.   
Health advocacy |  Assessment based on file review, and interview.   
Interest in the discipline |  Assessment based on file review, and interview.   
Interest in the program |  Assessment based on file review, and interview.   
Leadership skills |  Assessment based on file review, and interview.   
Professionalism |  Assessment based on file review, and interview.   
Scholarly activities |  Assessment based on file review, and interview.   
Other interview component(s) |  At this time, interviews are approx. 45 minutes in duration, divided into three 15-minute components. Two interview teams are composed of staff, and one of residents only. Candidates will be asked a variety of questions pertaining to their file, to their elective experience, and regarding general questions, which may include problem solving, ethical or moral dilemmas, professionalism challenges, team relationships. The interview format may change depending on decisions regarding virtual structure of the day, which have not yet been made. Candidates invited for an interview will be notified at least one week in advance of the format they can expect on interview day.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Western University's Department of Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery is a
globally renowned program demonstrating excellence, innovation and leadership
in education, research, and patient care. It is highly diverse, ambitious,
deeply committed, collegial, and collaborative.

Our mission is to enable our faculty and residents to achieve their full
potential, to embody pillars of strength based on core values, and to embrace
a collective culture of passion to lead the cutting edge of discovery and
scholarship in the context of exemplary delivery of quality care and
education.

We value leadership, collaboration, compassion, creativity, innovation, social
responsibility, excellence in medical care, quality, fairness, patient
centeredness and learner focus.

Our residents routinely leave the program as highly competent surgeons and
consultants in Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery and have distinguished
themselves in academic and community practice in Canada and the United States.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

This residency program is conducted under a Competency Based Medical
Education.  Residency is anticipated to last for 5 year(s), but precise length
of training is not defined.

Curriculum  
The Residency in Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery at Western University is
approximately a five-year program. During the first 16 months, trainees
receive core surgical training to provide a solid background in the principles
of surgery related to Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery. This is a fully
integrated program involving all of the major teaching hospitals in London.
Residents are required to pass the Surgical Foundations examination of the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons before proceeding to senior
residency.

The subsequent months are spent on-service in Otolaryngology-Head and Neck
Surgery. During this time there are rotations in Pathology (1 month in PGY-3
year), Radiology and Research (1 month in PGY-3), as well as 3 months of
elective rotations. Didactic teaching sessions, journal clubs, rounds, and
hands-on surgical dissection courses (temporal bone, sinus surgery) are
attended. Additionally, residents in the Transition to Discipline and
Foundations of Discipline levels of training are expected to attend the
protected teaching time. Written examinations are taken once per year
(national in-training exam) and bi-annual internal oral examinations are
provided as formative feedback to residents.

Residency Training Program Start Date - All programs at Western commence on
July 1, 2025, with a one-day Orientation (date TBA) in London, Ontario.





  
  

|  **Applying competency-based practices to residency education** Residents
entering Otolaryngology–Head and Neck Surgery in July 2025 will experience
competency-based training.  To contribute to the success of Canadian
physicians and the delivery of high-quality patient care, the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada has embarked upon an initiative to introduce
competency-based medical education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty
training and in professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called
Competence by Design (CBD), aims to enhance patient care by aligning medical
education and lifelong learning with evolving patient needs and empowering
learners to more fully engage in their education process.  CBD will use [time
as a framework](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-
cbd-e) rather than the basis for progression. It is not anticipated that the
duration of training will change for the majority of trainees. Residency
programs will be broken down into stages, and each stage will have a series of
milestones based on required competencies. These milestones will create more
targeted learning outcomes and involve more frequent, formative assessments
within the clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving
feedback on the skills they need. Within a CBD program, all milestones
(documented within an electronic portfolio) and the Royal College examination
must be successfully completed to achieve certification.   The Otolaryngology-
Head and Neck Surgery program at Western University will be working with CBME
for the 2025 residency cohort. For more information, please contact the
Program Director.  
---  
  


Research

Residents in PGY-2, -3, and -5 will present research at the annual Residents'
Research Day.  Research laboratories within the department include anatomy and
cell biology, voice, vestibular and otologic, virtual reality computer
modeling.  Affiliations with pathology, dentistry, biophysics and the London
Regional Cancer Program allow other research opportunities.  

An opportunity may exist to undertake a Master's Degree during residency on a
case-by-case basis. This can be discussed with the Program Director.

  
  

Seminars

Seminars during the PGY-1 and PGY-2 years are provided and are geared towards
the Surgical Foundations examination. During the final three years a didactic
lecture series, seminar series, and ward rounds are scheduled to ensure
comprehensive education.



* * *

# Training Sites

\- St. Joseph's Health Care-SJHC (Rhinology/Facial Plastics - RFP): This will
involve exposure to advanced Rhinology with Dr. B. Rotenberg and Dr. L.
Sowerby, and Facial Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery/Trauma with Dr. C. Moore.
It also includes Skin Cancer Surgery with Drs. C. Moore, K. Roth, and L.
Sowerby, and Sleep Apnea Care with Dr. B. Rotenberg, as well as General
Otolaryngology with Dr. K. Roth.  Dr. B. Rotenberg and Dr. L. Sowerby also
perform Anterior Skull Base Surgery.

\- LHSC (Otology/Neuro-Otology - ONO): This rotation will take place at LHSC-
University Hospital. This will involve exposure to Otology, Neuro-otology, and
Lateral Skull Base Surgery with Dr. L. Parnes, Dr. S. Agrawal, and Dr. D.
Bajin.

\- LHSC (Head and Neck Oncology - HN): This rotation will be at LHSC-Victoria
Hospital. It will involve exposure to Head and Neck Surgery, Oncology, and
Reconstructive Surgery with Drs. J. Yoo, K. Fung, A. Nichols, D. MacNeil, A.
Mendez, and T. Phillips. This also includes Laryngology with Dr. K. Fung.

\- LHSC (Pediatrics - PED): This rotation will be at LHSC-Victoria Hospital.
It will involve exposure to Paediatric Otolaryngology with Drs. M. Husein, J.
Paradis, J. Strychowsky, and P. You.

\- A total of three months of elective blocks are available over the PGY-3 to
PGY-4 years.







* * *

# Additional Information

All information contained is subject to change until such time as the rank
order lists are filed. Please ensure you review information on a regular
basis.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26424?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26424