#  Queen’s University - Ophthalmology - Kingston  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on February 19, 2025

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Rachel Curtis  

Address Ophthalmology  
166 Brock Street  
Brock 2, Room B2-018  
Kingston , Ontario, K7L 5G2  

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Department of Ophthalmology
](http://ophthalmology.queensu.ca)  
[ Queen's CaRMS Information Page
](https://ophthalmology.queensu.ca/academics/postgrad/carms)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Shauna Vinkle

Title: Program Assistant

Email: s.vinkle@queensu.ca

Phone: (613) 544-3400 x 2245

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Electives**

We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted candidates’ opportunities
to arrange and complete electives, and would like to reassure you that a lack
of elective activity this year will not negatively impact your application to
our program.

COVID-19 vaccination requirements:  
Please refer to the 'Restrictions' section of the [Ontario eligibility
criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/) for messaging regarding COVID-19 vaccination requirements.

**EDIIA Institutional Statement:  
**

The goal of resident selection is to identify trainees likely to succeed both
in training and, once out in practice, in meeting the health care needs of
patients and Canadian society. We know that having a physician workforce that
reflects the demographics of the patients that they serve improves health care
outcomes. There are many populations within Canada under-represented in
medicine (UIM) with a paucity of health care practitioners who are Black,
Indigenous, Persons of Colour, 2SLGBTQ+, from lower socioeconomic backgrounds,
and/or with disabilities, and other under-represented in medicine (UIM)
groups. Diversity within training programs has also been shown to improve
training environments. Queen’s University PGME is strongly committed to
diversity and inclusion within its community for these reasons as well as
being part of the solution to address historic and contemporary inequities.

**Equity and diversity**

We welcome diversity among our trainees and seek to foster an environment that
is welcoming to all, regardless of gender identity, race, religion, or sexual
orientation.

We are committed to advancing equitable and inclusive practices.  Please refer
to the [PGME website](https://meds.queensu.ca/academics/postgraduate/faculty-
staff/applicant-selection) for additional information / resources including
[QHS EDIIA Initiatives](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi) and [EDIIA
statements](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi/accessibility-
statements) (Indigenous Land Acknowledgement, Anti-Discrimination Statement,
Inclusion Statement, and Statement on Social Accountability)

**Gaps in Training, Remediation, or Professionalism issues  
  
** Please address any gaps in training, remediation, or professionalism issues
in your personal letter as a separate paragraph. **This will not count towards
your maximum word count.**

* * *

# Return of Service

If you have a ROS agreement in another province please ensure you aware of the
commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

**Queen's Application Requirements  
  
** In addition to the standard application requirements, applicants to the
Ophthalmology Program at Queen's will be required to complete:

1) The CASPer Test

2) Program Questionnaire

Please see below for additional information.



**The CASPer Test**

_All applicants applying to the ophthalmology program at the Queen’s
University are required to complete the Casper Test (Altus Suite), to assist
with our selection process for the 2024-2025 Application Cycle._

_Altus Suite  is a standardized, two-part online assessment of non-cognitive
skills, interpersonal characteristics, and personal values and priorities that
we believe are important for successful students and graduates of our program.
Altus Suite will complement the other tools that we use for applicant review
and evaluation. In implementing Altus Suite, we are trying to further enhance
fairness and objectivity in our selection process._

_Altus Suite consists of:_

  * _**Casper:**  a 90-110 minute online situational judgment test (SJT)_

_You will register for Altus  Suite for Canadian Postgraduate Medical
Education (**CSP-20201  – ****Canadian Postgraduate Medical Education)**,_

_Access  <https://acuityinsights.app/> to create an account and for more
information on **important dates and requirements** , and the Altus Suite
assessments._

The test dates are:

**September 26, 2024  8pm EST (English)**

**October 16, 2024,  8pm EST (English)**

**November 5, 2024,  8pm EST (English and French)**

 **Program Questionnaire**

Queen's Ophthalmology has prepared a short one-page questionnaire to assist
with the selection process. It is important to note that there are no 'right'
or 'wrong' answers; the questionnaire is simply designed to help us learn more
about applicants to our program. Completion of this questionnaire is mandatory
in order to maintain admission eligibility. The questionnaire can be found on
[Queen's CaRMS
website](https://ophthalmology.queensu.ca/academics/postgrad/carms "Queen's
CaRMS information page") or by navigating to the following site: [Program
Questionnaire](https://ophthalmology.queensu.ca/source/Ophthalmology/CaRMS%20Supplementary%20Questions.pdf
"Questionnaire").



Please note that due to the volume of applications our program receives we are
not able to provide individual feedback to applicants who are not successful
in the match.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

We recommend getting reference letters from faculty members who know you well
and who can attest to your clinical and interpersonal skills in a meaningful
way. If possible, one or more reference letters from a faculty member from
Ophthalmology is helpful, but not required. Only the first three letters on
file will be reviewed.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  550

  

Your personal letter should provide the selection committee insight in to why
you are a well-suited candidate for ophthalmology and for the Queen's
Ophthalmology Program in particular.  It should be approximately 500 words in
length (1 single-spaced page).  This is an opportunity for the candidate to
demonstrate who they are and what they hope to accomplish in a career in
ophthalmology.

Custom Résumé / CV

Please include a custom CV as part of the application package.  This will
summarize your education, academic, volunteer, and research activities to
date.  It may also include your general interests and hobbies.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Abstract/Publications

In this section of the application, please include all research that has been
submitted for publication.  We accept all types of work, however, we ask that
you qualify it.  In other words, list all of your submitted research projects,
and at the end of the citation put whether the citation is 'in press' or
'accepted with revisions'. Should you be waiting to hear back from a submitted
publication write "submitted".  In regards to pending or in progress work, we
would recommend outlining that information in your CV instead of as an
abstract.

You may also include research that has been presented at conferences.  Please
indicate the conference where the work was presented, as well as the type of
presentation it was (poster presentation, oral presentation, etc.)

It is **not** necessary to submit all of your publications as PDFs.  You may
wish to append your best work, whatever you feel that might be.  You should
limit this to no more than 3 documents.



Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Ophthalmological Report

We require that you obtain an ocular examination with an ophthalmologist or an
optometrist that indicates your best corrected visual acuity including
corrective prescription documented, your stereo-acuity, your colour vision and
any other relevant details from a general assessment.

Program questionnaire

Queen's Ophthalmology has developed a short one-page questionnaire to assist
with the selection process. It is important to note that there are no 'right'
or 'wrong' answers; the questionnaire is simply designed to help us learn more
about applicants to our program. Completion of this questionnaire is mandatory
in order to maintain admission eligibility. The questionnaire can be found on
[Queen's CaRMS
website](https://ophthalmology.queensu.ca/academics/postgrad/carms "Queen's
CaRMS information page") or by navigating to the following site: [Program
Questionnaire](https://ophthalmology.queensu.ca/source/Ophthalmology/CaRMS%20Supplementary%20Questions.pdf
"Questionnaire").

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Students applying in the last year of medical school will need to submit their
most recent marks/transcripts, and will need to provide proof of their MD to
CPSO prior to the start of residency training. Documents that are not in
English must be accompanied by a notarized translation.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Paper files are reviewed during the month of December and approximately 18-24
candidates are 'short-listed' for an interview based on their interest and
aptitude in ophthalmology, as well as their academic record and interpersonal
skills.

'Short-listed' candidates will be offered interviews via email by early
January.

Candidates not receiving an interview at Queen's will be notified via email by
early January.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 23, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: All interviews will be held virtually on
Thursday, January 23, 2025. Applicants will be assigned a time to log-in for
their interviews in advance.  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Virtual interviews will be program
initiated. Detailed instructions on interview times, process and technological
requirements will be provided closer to the interview date.  
  
The individuals selected for an interview will recieve further emailed
information regarding the process in early January.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates should have a keen interest in ophthalmology, and in the Queen's
Program in particular. This may be demonstrated by electives and research in
ophthalmology or related fields.

An acceptable academic record which demonstrates special proficiency in those
subjects related to our specialty.

**Letters of reference need not be from ophthalmologists.**  References should
be able to attest to interest and proficiency in the specialty, as well as
comment on exemplary interpersonal skills.

Candidates with an interest and proven experience in research, both in basic
science and clinical research, are encouraged to apply.

Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.  Maturity, empathy,
sensitivity.

**Additional Training:**  
Additional training experiences above and beyond the traditional medical
school curriculum will be considered in a manner that upholds and respects the
principles of fairness, equity, and professionalism in the application,
selection, and matching process. Training experiences that fall outside of the
undergraduate medical education will be evaluated using existing institutional
rubrics specific to each program, and weighted in a manner that encourages
equity among all applicant.  

## Program goals

Queen's Ophthalmology endeavours to select residents who can complete the
program demands and requirements (clinical, surgical, and academic) such that
they will graduate as competent ophthalmologists. We strive to choose
residents who can do so within the cultural and value context of our Program.
Such individuals have been descibed as bright, hard working, collegial, multi-
dimensional, and inquisitive. We welcome diversity among our trainees, and
seek to foster an environment that is welcoming to all, regardless of gender
identity, race, religion, or sexual orientation.

## Selection process goals

Applicants who have successfully matched to our Program are described as
having:

  1. **an aptitude  ****for Ophthalmology -** a _genuine_ interest in a career of providing quality eye care and is interested in practicing in an ethical, conscientious manner,
  2. **an aptitude for the Queen 's Ophthalmology Program - **fit the collegial culture that has been cultivated in our Program,
  3. **an academic aptitude  **- the ability to learn the material necessary to provide quality patient care, pass exams, etc in the setting of multiple competing demands,
  4. **a surgical aptitude  **- the ability to learn and perform the microsurgery required of our specialty, 
  5. **a research aptitude -**  interest in performing research throughout residency, 
  6. **a leadership aptitude -  **leadership qualities, abilities, and interest,
  7. **a human aptitude** \- well rounded with interests and hobbies outside of medicine.

## File review process

Review team composition : All residents and most faculty

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
Usually 60-80 per year

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  
Usually 18-24 interviews are offered. (I.e. we offer interview to 22-40% of
applicants)

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Provides a general overview of the candidate and their accomplishments in one location.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Some electives in ophthalmology, location of electives, some electives in other areas of medicine. Limitations and barriers related to securing electives are considered.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We are interested in well-rounded students who demonstrate and pursue interests outside of medicine.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Demonstrates a student's interest and ability to lead people and initiatives.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Provides insight to a student's performance throughout med school, especially narratives from assessments.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Allow a student to describe who they are, why they are interested in Ophthalmology and the Queen's Program.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Allow faculty they have worked with to describe their performance & their aptitude for residency.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We are interested to see a student's interest and ability to complete research.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  In a pass/fail system, this is often the least useful information. We review it for outliers.   
Other file component(s) |  Program Questionnaire:   
Provide applicants with further opportunity to describe who they are, and why
they are interested in the Queen's Ophthalmology Program.  
  
CASPer:  
Assesses for non-cognitive skills and interpersonal characteristics that we
believe are important for successful students and graduates of our program.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We understand the competitive nature of our specialty and the need to have a
back-up plan should the match be unsuccessful. Thus, we encourage students to
get exposure in the various areas of their interest in medicine to ensure they
are competitive to other specialties as well.

We also understand that the competitive nature of our specialty makes students
feel they need to have electives at as many of the ophthalmology programs as
possibe and that it is not possible to visit all programs. As such, when we
review a student's elective experience we are looking at the types of
electives they performed and the location of their electives to get a sense of
their overall priorities. We also consider and are understanding of the
various systematic challenges and barriers that students face when attempting
to secure elective experiences.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due
to weather, technology failure or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We are interested in individuals with a strong sense of and capacity for teamwork.   
Collegiality |  We are interested in individuals who demonstrate the ability to work well with others.   
Communication skills |  We use the interview as an opportunity to assess a candidate's communication skills and style.   
Health advocacy |  We are interested in individuals who recognize the limitations and inequities of our health care system and the spectrum of demographics for the patients that we serve and who are motivated to advocate for those who need it most.   
Interest in the discipline |  We are interested in understanding the nature of a candidate's interest in our discipline.   
Interest in the program |  We aim to get a sense of a candidate's interest in our program specifically & if they fit our culture.   
Leadership skills |  We are interested in candidates with leadership ability or potential, and may ask related questions.   
Professionalism |  We are interested in individuals with a high degree of professionalism, and may ask questions about this.   
Scholarly activities |  We are interested in candidates who have interest and ability in performing scholarly work/research.   
Other interview component(s) |  Time management, organizational skills, priority setting, patient interactions, adaptability, ability to work with direction and independently, self-reflection/self-regulation, surgical aptitude, and ethical are other qualities that are important to us. It is impossible to ask about each of these qualities during our interview time, but a variety of these will be included and assessed throughout the process.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

We are proud of our small but mighty, tight-knit, collegial program, and all
of the perks that come with that. There is one-on-one teaching and supervision
on most subspecialty rotations, which results in high surgical/procedural
volume. Schedules are designed with flexibility and individual learning plans
can be tailored to individual resident interests and needs.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Transition to Discipline**

Year 1 - Blocks 1-2 = 2 ophthalmology blocks

**Foundations of Discipline**

Year 1 - Blocks 3-13 = 5 off-service blocks + 1 elective block + 3.5
ophthalmology blocks (Emergency Eye Clinic + 6 week Toronto Ophthalmology
Residents' Introductory Course)

**Core of Discipline**  = Subspecialty ophthalmology, 2 elective blocks,
community ophthalmology

Year 2 - Blocks 1-9 = Emergency Eye Clinic + Subspecialty clinics

Year 2 - Blocks 10-13 = Subspecialty ophthalmology blocks

Year 3 - Blocks 1-13 = Subspecialty ophthalmology blocks

Year 4 - Blocks 1-13 = Subspecialty ophthalmology blocks

Year 5 - Blocks 1-5 = Subspecialty ophthalmology blocks

**Transition to Practice**  

Year 5 - Blocks 6-13



Trainees advance through the ranks with progressive increase in responsibility
as skill and maturity develop.

We offer a community clinical and surgical experience.

The ratio of residents to faculty is 12-13 residents to 22 staff (plus adjunct
staff).

**Electives:** During PGY-1, there are 4 weeks available for an elective
experience. During PGY-4 & 5 years, there are up to 8 weeks available for
interprovincial and international electives. All electives must be approved by
the Program Director. Residents must submit objectives for their electives. A
limited amount of funding may be available for domestic electives and there
are also limited funds available for approved international electives.



PGY-1  
  

The PGY-1 year at Queen's includes rotations in surgery, medicine, and
emergency medicine tailored to the trainee's requirements. Emphasis is placed
on rotations involving some overlap with Ophthalmology. Up to 4 weeks of
elective time is available in the PGY-1 year. Residents return to
ophthalmology after completing their off-service rotations.



Since May 2002, residents have been participating in the University of Toronto
basic science program in Ophthalmology (TORIC) which is held during the last
six weeks of the PGY-1 year.







PGY-2 to 5  
  
The clinical teaching program includes:

Comprehensive experience in clinical ophthalmology and ophthalmic surgery.
Most of the PGY-2 year is devoted to emergent ophthalmic care. The end of
PGY-2 through PGY-5 allows for 4-month rotations in each sub-specialty as well
as high volume surgical exposure.  



The didactic teaching program includes:

A seminar series covering the basic and clinical sciences of ophthalmology is
delivered over a 2 year period and as such each resident receives the teaching
this series offers twice during their residency.

Weekly diagnostic rounds, grand rounds, and professor's rounds are held.

Journal clubs with a strong emphasis on critical appraisal of the literature
are held every 2 months.

Residents participate in select teaching activities of various departments and
groupings within the Queen's Health Sciences Faculty Community.







  
  

Research  
  

Residents (PGY-1) attend a course designed to provide an overview of critical
appraisal and the development and conduct of an effective research program.
Residents (PGY 2-4) are expected to design and conduct research projects with
direction and assistance from a faculty member. Residents are strongly
encouraged and supported to present their research results at national and
international meetings. All PGY 2-4 residents are required to present their
research at an annual research day within the Department.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

Our program has FULL accreditation status with the Royal College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Canada.

The Department of Ophthalmology at Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario
conducts a graduate training program in its affiliated teaching hospitals.
Clinical experience is obtained in the principal affiliated teaching
institutions, Hotel Dieu Hospital (where the majority of out-patient
ophthalmic care is delivered) and Kingston General Hospital (where all in-
patient and after-hours ophthalmic consultation occurs, as well as most PGY-1
off-service rotations). External facilities also include one Department-run
facility on the West end of Kingston, 1 private office on the East end of
Kingston and 1 private office in downtown Kingston.



* * *

# Additional Information

Applicants are strongly encouraged to visit our
[website](https://ophthalmology.queensu.ca/academics/postgrad/carms/welcome)
where a wealth of information regarding our program is available.

* * *

# FAQ

What is Queen's Ophthalmology looking for in their candidates?

Our program is interested in training residents who are keen and able to
receive instruction and learn, who have a genuine interest in providing high
quality ophthalmic care during residency and in their future careers, who have
excellent interpersonal skills such that they can work effectively in our
tight-knit environment, and who are mature, introspective and self-reflective
such that they are able to integrate and adapt all that they learn during
residency in to their pre-existing scaffold. We are interested in residents
who will actively contribute to the Program throughout their residency.



Do all of my reference letters need to be from ophthalmologists?

**No, they do not, however it is advisable that _at least_ one letter be from
an ophthalmologist. **We would prefer to read letters from physicians from
other specialties who know you well and who can attest to your overall
abilities and interpersonal skills than from an ophthalmologist who has only
spent a small amount of time with you during a short elective.



What does Queen's look for in the personal letter?

We want to get a sense of who you are: what motivates you in general and in
ophthalmology, what makes you a good fit for a position in ophthalmology and
in particular Queen's Ophthalmology, what you hope to achieve in a career in
ophthalmology...The personal letter is an opportunity to give us insight in to
who you are as a person, as well as information about you that we can't
already glean from all of the documentation you have submitted as part of the
application package.



Does Queen's require an ophthalmological report?

Yes, we do. We want to ensure a future resident's success with microsurgery.
Having excellent stereoacuity is an important asset when trying to perform
delicate intraocular 3-dimensional tasks like capsulorhexis and epiretinal
membrane peeling.



Should I upload _all_ of my publications as PDFs?

We recommend that you upload **up to 3** abstracts/publications as PDFs.
Uploading what you feel is your **best work** is advised. Of course, you
should list all of your research in the appropriate section and in your custom
CV, including the citation, so we can access it online at our convenience
should we want to read more of your work.



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27088?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27088