#  University of Alberta - Family Medicine - Camrose  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Michelle Morros  

Address Family Medicine  
University of Alberta  
5-16 University Terrace  
Edmonton, Alberta, T6G 2T4  

780-492-9961

Websites of Interest [ Family Medicine Residency Program
](https://www.ualberta.ca/en/family-medicine/postgraduate/prospective-
residents/index.html)  
[ Camrose FM Residency ](https://www.ualberta.ca/family-
medicine/postgraduate/prospective-residents/rural-stream/camrose.html)  
[ Facebook ](http://facebook.com/UofAFM)  
[ Tourism Camrose ](https://www.tourismcamrose.com/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Amber Jorgensen

Title: Site Co-Director

Email: rfmcr@ualberta.ca

  

Name: Dr. Jeff Bennett

Title: Site Co-Director

Email: rfmcr@ualberta.ca

  

Name: Katrina Stuckey

Title: Academic Site Administrator

Email: rfmcr@ualberta.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

The most up-to-date information about our programs can be found on our
centralized website at: [https://www.ualberta.ca/family-
medicine/postgraduate/prospective-
residents/index.html](https://www.ualberta.ca/family-
medicine/postgraduate/prospective-residents/index.html)

Multiple opportunities to meet with our programs residents, faculty and
administrators will be available throughout the CaRMS season. Please see
[CANPREPP-Camrose](https://canprepp.ca/) for dates and registration.

Interviews for the Rural & Remote (Camrose, Grande Prairie, Red Deer,
Yellowknife) streams are combined, and separate from the Urban (Edmonton)
stream.



**To complete an application to the University of Alberta's Rural Program
stream:**

1) You will need 3 referees to **submit** the [Family Medicine Structured
Reference Form](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/sample-FM-structured-reference-
letter-CMG.pdf).

2) You must **complete** the Personal Letter as detailed in the “Additional
Documents” section. Please note that the guidelines for the letter differ
slightly between our urban and rural streams.

3) You have the **option of completing** the CaRMS Self-Identification
Questionnaire (CSIQ). The CSIQ is not currently being used as part of the
application or selection process. More information can be found in the
“Additional Information” section.

4) You must **complete** the FMProC (Family Medicine Professional Choices)
test as noted in the “Examination” section.

**FMProC**

All Family Medicine Residency Programs across Canada use the FMProC (Family
Medicine Professional Choices) in their selection process, which is a Family
Medicine-context specific Situational Judgment Test.

**All applicants to the University of Alberta Family Medicine Residency
Program will be required to write the FMProC for their application to be
deemed complete**. More details and information about registration for FMProC
can be found here: [https://fmproc.com/](https://fmproc.com/).

**Applicants should register early and take the test early during the testing
periods posted.**

**CaRMS Round 1:**

**Registration** : Opens 11th September 2024 Wednesday 12 noon ET, closes 7th
November 2024 Thursday 10AM  ET.

**Test Window:** Opens 28th October Monday 8AM ET, closes 11th November Monday
10AM ET.

**CaRMS Round 2:**

**Registration:** Opens 25th February 2025 Tuesday 12 noon ET, closes 10th
March 2025 Monday 12 noon ET.

**Test Window:** Opens 27th February 2025 Thursday 10AM ET, closes; 12th March
2025 Wednesday 10AM ET.



* * *

# Return of Service

There are no return of service requirements at the University of Alberta.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

**Candidates who match to our program are required to submit proof of ACLS
certification prior to their start date. Without ACLS certification,
candidates who match to our program will not be able to begin training on July
1.**



* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Please see the Alberta [provincial
criteria.](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/)

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) are required to provide proof of
English language proficiency as determined by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) who completed their medical education in
Quebec or at the University of Ottawa (French Stream) are required to provide
proof of English language proficiency as determined by the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

CMGs who completed their medical education at the University of Ottawa must
indicate on their application which stream they completed (either French or
English).

_For more information on the CPSA English language requirements, please visit
the  [CPSA website](https://cpsa.ca/physicians/registration/english-language-
proficiency/)._

Examinations

Required

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).



Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Please note that traditional narrative reference letters will NOT be accepted.
Please ask referees to submit a Family Medicine Structured Reference Form,
available on the CaRMS website [HERE](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/sample-FM-
structured-reference-letter-CMG.pdf). If you are applying for more than one of
the University of Alberta Rural and Remote streams, the same reference forms
can be used.

Forms completed by physicians with whom the candidate has worked in a CLINICAL
setting are preferred.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Instead of a traditional personal letter, please answer the following **two**
questions as your personal letter. When completing your personal letter in the
CaRMS.ca "Personal Letter" section, please copy and paste the question stems
above your answer.



1) Please highlight three things about yourself that you would like to ensure
we do not miss in our review. Items may include special skills or
accomplishments, or anything else you feel will strengthen your application to
UofA Family Medicine. Your answers will be used to evaluate your interest and
suitability for Rural Family Medicine as well as any connection to our
community. Maximum 75 words per item (Max 225 words total). Please do not
exceed the maximum word count.



2) Please describe any special interest or connection you may have to a rural,
regional or remote community either in Alberta or not. Please use no more than
100 words. We understand that not everybody who is interested in rural
medicine actually comes from a small town and as such, candidates without a
specific connection to a rural, regional or remote community will still be
given consideration.

Optional - will be reviewed

Program questionnaire

**Sometimes applicants are worried about certain items or aspects of their
application. Using the[ Program Questionnaire
Template](https://drive.google.com/file/d/15dgZiafS0fXyOpNwdHd6sFPMAFh79HW6/view?usp=drive_link),
you may optionally upload this “Program Questionnaire” document to explain any
concerns you may have, for example, academic performance, professionalism
concerns, leaves or gaps in training, Family Medicine experience, or other. If
you have no concerns, please do not upload this document.**

Self-identification questionnaire

**Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism in residency
selection. We invite applicants to optionally complete and include the CSIQ to
assist our understanding of the diversity of applicant pools, but the CSIQ is
not currently utilized as part of our application or selection process. We are
using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable opportunities
for all applicants.**

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

For details of our file review process see Selection Criteria.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 19, 2025
  * January 20, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: **Applicants will be able to schedule their
own interview date and time. Interview status will be updated on December 17,
2024.   Scheduling will begin on December 18, 2024 at 6:00 p.m. (MT)**  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: **Our goal with interviews is to make
applicants feel welcome and comfortable in order to allow them to demonstrate
their strengths. We will strive to maintain this personal touch despite the
nature of virtual interviews.   The Department endeavors to offer interviews
to all eligible candidates but uses the file ranking to determine a cut-off
level if demand for interviews exceeds resources.**  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

1) CaRMS Files

Factors that will be taken into consideration from the application file in
establishing the candidate's suitability in family medicine residency include:

  * Academic performance
  * Clinical performance
  * Family Medicine experience 
  * References
  * Rural interest/experience

2) Interviews

  * Communication skills
  * People skills
  * Desire to become a rural family physician
  * Maturity
  * Team player
  * Work ethic
  * Readiness for challenge
  * Self-directed learning
  * Suitability for small collegial program

## Program goals

Our goal is to produce competent, caring, full service family physicians with
a passion for serving and living in a rural or remote community.

The University of Alberta Family Medicine Program believes that the best
learning comes from exposure to as many clinical experiences as possible
including diverse settings and challenging levels of responsibility. We
encourage all medical students interested in rural/remote family medicine to
apply to our program as we believe training with us will prepare you for
practice anywhere in the country.

## Selection process goals

The University of Alberta rural family medicine ideal candidate:

  * Demonstrates a genuine passion for rural family medicine
  * Demonstrates a solid knowledge base and excellent critical thinking skills.
  * Demonstrates superior communication skills.
  * Demonstrates a deep sense of responsibility to the community, including diverse populations and rural and remote settings. 
  * Demonstrates adherence to the highest professional standards.



## File review process

Review team composition : Each file is reviewed independently by one faculty
member and one resident using a computer-based, evidence-informed scoring
rubric. Discrepancies or concerns are reviewed by a third party and taken to
the selection committee as appropriate.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 401 - 600  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  
The department endeavours to offer interviews to all eligible candidates, but
uses the file ranking to determine cut-off level if demand for interviews
exceeds resources.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Required; content evaluated as a supplement to the application   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Our program does not require electives at our site or numerous electives in our specialty. We consider and value applicants with broad clinical experiences.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  FMProC: Is not used to determine interview status, but may be considered for overall ranking.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Work and volunteer experience(rural favoured); special skills and interests; community engagement   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Community service and engagement; family medicine oriented organizations and associations   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evaluated for academic performance and professionalism   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Required as detailed   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Required: Three structured reference forms. Traditional narrative letters of reference will not be reviewed.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Not required. Interest in (rural) primary care favoured.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evaluated for academic proficiency   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Electives will not be considered as part of the
interview offer criteria

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

**Our program does not favour residents who do electives at our site or
numerous electives in our specialty. We consider and value applicants with
broad clinical experiences.**



## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  not specifically evaluated at interview   
Collegiality |  behaviour, attitude and ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  strong verbal and non-verbal skills   
Health advocacy |  not specifically evaluated at interview   
Interest in the discipline |  understanding of and suitability for rural family medicine   
Interest in the program |  connection to and/or interest in rural community   
Leadership skills |  involvement in teaching, mentoring, organizations etc.   
Professionalism |  interactions with faculty, staff and residents   
Scholarly activities |  not specifically evaluated at interview   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  The University of Alberta Family Medicine Program believes that all
medical students should endeavour to work to their best abilities and behave
in a professional manner throughout their training. Solicited or unsolicited
feedback received regarding a candidate, in particular relating to the medical
expert, communicator or professional roles MAY be considered if it is felt to
be relevant and/or egregious and can be reasonably verified.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Camrose is excited to welcome its first cohort of family medicine residents!
As the newest Rural Family Medicine training stream within the Department of
Family Medicine at the University of Alberta, our experienced preceptors look
forward to working with residents to shape the program.**

**Learner Focused**

A combination of block and integrated-style scheduling allows you to
consolidate and then implement your learning into practice.  Longitudinal
experience in a rural setting with the same preceptors and patients over two
years encourages continuity.  A small number of learners ensures more 1-on-1
opportunities and closer relationships. Residents in Camrose are not service-
based and have the flexibility to tailor clinical duties to individual
learning needs and future practice goals.

**Site Based Training with a Rural Advantage**

Get comprehensive rural training without living out of a suitcase. Complete
most of your training in Camrose with minimal need to travel.  Drive, bike or
walk to work in only a few minutes and spend your free time enjoying the
community or with your family/friends.  Enjoy the ability to play drop in
hockey on your lunch hour or be involved in a regularly scheduled community
group or sports team even while being a busy resident.  

**Real Life Preparation**

Camrose offers a program with a training schedule that mimics real life as a
rural family doctor. Our curriculum is designed to teach you about real life
practice, longitudinal teaching on efficient charting, inbox management,
billing, burnout prevention, effective communication and time management.
With lots of critical care experience, residents will graduate as physicians
who will have the skills and experience to feel comfortable stepping into full
scope independent rural practice.

**Mentors**

Camrose is a resource-rich rural community.  Family physicians work to full
scope with the support of many specialists.  Follow patients through their
medical journey and see them in clinic, during their hospital admission or
surgery and then back in the office or even in their home.

**Resident Well-being**

As a small site, residents will have the ability to build close, lasting, and
supportive relationships with their fellow residents, preceptors,
administrators, and support staff.  Residents have the flexibility to take
vacation throughout the year.  Camrose regularly hosts longitudinal integrated
third year medical students as well as many other medical students and
residents, providing plenty of opportunities for both socializing and
teaching.

**Funding**

Funding is available for off site travel expenses and off site accommodations
are provided for mandatory rotations >50 km from Camrose.  Mandatory courses
are reimbursed to the resident when successfully completed during residency.
Additional conference funding is provided to rural residents.

**Summary**

If you are interested in becoming a well-rounded, confident family physician
with the skill set to practice full-scope family medicine in a rural or urban
setting, Camrose will meet or exceed your expectations!

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Longitudinal experiences over both years (home site):**

  * Six Hospitalist weeks + longitudinal inpatient care
  * Four 2-week surgery/gyne/anesthesia weeks
  * Regular obstetrical call
  * Regular ER in Camrose 
  * Weekly half day learner led teaching clinics with medical students 
  * Vacation will be taken throughout the year

**First Year** | **Second Year**  
---|---  
**Half-year Family Medicine plus;**  
**   Psychiatry/Chronic Pain/Physiatry focus** |  **Half-year Family Medicine plus;**  
**   Geriatrics/Palliative/Internal Medicine focus**  
  
  * Family medicine clinic 2- 4 days per week
  * Regular psychiatry clinic
  * Child and Youth Mental Health clinic
  * Chronic pain clinic
  * Physiatry clinic (Tofield)

|

  * Family Medicine clinic 2-4 days per week
  * Geriatric clinics
  * Fall Prevention clinics
  * Weekly supported living rounds
  * Internal Medicine clinics
  * Stroke clinics
  * Heart Function clinics
  * Weekly palliative rounds
  * Community Cancer Care clinics

  
**Half-year Family Medicine plus;**  
**   Women’s Health/Pediatric focus** |  **Half-year Family Medicine plus;**  
**   Radiology and extra ER focus**  
  
  * Family Medicine Clinic with a preceptor with a women’s health focused panel 2-4 days per week
  * Prenatal clinics
  * Community Pediatric Clinics
  * Menopause clinics

|

  * Family Medicine Clinic 2-4 days per week
  * Diagnostic and interventional radiology
  * extra ER shifts in Wetaskiwin in addition to the regular longitudinal ER in Camrose.  Wetaskiwin ER serves a community with a large indigenous population

  
**Off site rotations (occurring within first year):** |  **Off site rotations (occurring within second year):**  
  
  * 3 wks Addictions (Red Deer)
  * 4 wks ICU/CCU (Red Deer)
  * 4 wks Ortho (Red Deer)
  * 6 wks Electives (on or off site)

|

  * 4 wks Pediatric ER (Edmonton)
  * 8 wks Off-site Rural FM
  * 4 wks Electives (on or off site)

  
  
**Academics**

The rural sites follow a structured, two-year academic curriculum, covering
the full range of topics necessary for the practice of rural family medicine.
Strong emphasis is placed on helping residents prepare to write their
licensing examination, with regular practice sessions.

  * Workshops and courses including; Evidence Based Medicine, Behavioural Medicine, CASTED, CPoCUS IP certification (Point of Care Ultrasound for independent practitioner), Residents as Teacher, and Practice Management 
  * Monthly Academic days with Red Deer Residents (in person)
  * Monthly academic half days in Camrose
  * Weekly hospital teaching rounds: hospitalist, ER and POCUS topics
  * Lots of interactive, hands on, simulation and case based learning

Academics sessions are also a great way for all rural residents to stay
connected during residency.

**Life Support Courses**

Residents must be ACLS certified before starting the residency program. ALARM,
ATLS, NRP and PALS courses are all reimbursed to the resident when
successfully completed during residency.

**Research**

In the first year, each resident does a workshop in Evidence-Based Medicine
(EBM) and then throughout the year, utilizes these skills to complete four
small EBM research projects to answer clinical questions they have
encountered.  A Practice Quality Improvement (PQI) project is assigned in the
second year and is completed during the rural family medicine block.

Residents are expected to present their research projects to their colleagues.
Residents also have the option to present their research at the annual Family
Medicine Research day. Funding may be available to support the presentation of
resident projects at Family Medicine conferences and meetings, and research
assistance is accessible through the Department of Family Medicine and Alberta
Primary Care Research Unit.



* * *

# Training Sites

**Camrose**

Camrose is a vibrant and growing community of approximately 20,000 people
located under an hour southeast of Edmonton, with a catchment area of up to
150,000 people. With over 20 clinic-based family physicians based out of two
clinics, residents spend ample time with preceptors to experience various
practice styles, panel compositions, and special interests.  Specialists and
family doctors have shared clinics and close working relationships.  

St. Mary’s Hospital in Camrose is a busy 76-bed hospital with many specialists
including GP Anesthetists, an ER staffed by family physicians, general
surgeons, family medicine hospitalists, internal medicine, family medicine
obstetrics, OBGYN, orthopedic surgery, pediatrics, plastic surgery,
psychiatry, on-site radiology and visiting cardiology/neurology. It is a
regional stroke center with a special care unit to care for high acuity
patients that would otherwise require transfer.

Camrose is a welcoming community with a reasonable cost of living.  Outdoor
enthusiasts will love the easily accessible hiking, mountain biking, and cross
country ski trails scattered throughout the Stoney Creek valley that runs
right next to the hospital, as well as the close proximity to the Battle River
valley. There are 2 performing arts venues and lots of incredible restaurants
and cafes. Camrose is home to Big Valley Jamboree which hosts over 20,000
people during the August long weekend to watch some of the biggest names in
country music.
[https://www.tourismcamrose.com/](https://www.tourismcamrose.com/)

**Rural Sites**

Outside of Camrose, residents will spend a total of 15 weeks of blocked time
in Edmonton and Red Deer.  Some longitudinal clinical time occurs in the
neighboring communities of Tofield and Wetaskiwin.  Residents can select from
any of the U of A rural training sites for their 2 month off-site rural family
medicine block.  Residents can choose a site close enough to commute from
Camrose or a site as far away as Yellowknife.

Rural sites are specifically chosen for the quality of learning opportunities
available. These sites are generally medium-sized communities with active
surgical and obstetrical programs in addition to a high-volume emergency
department. Residents will train with experienced full-service rural family
physician preceptors. The rural placement allows residents the opportunity to
follow a panel of their own patients, with progressively increasing
independence and responsibility.

Residents enjoy considerable flexibility in their choice of the rural site and
many of the rural sites can accommodate more than one resident at a time. Find
out more about the rural training sites using this link: [Community Site
Profiles](https://www.ualberta.ca/medicine/programs/rural-
regional/communities.html)

Access to a vehicle is necessary during these rural rotations as public
transport is minimal in rural Alberta.

Accommodations for rotations outside of the regional home base of Camrose are
arranged and funded by RhPAP. Accommodation at a rural site could be an
apartment, condo or a house. Accommodations suitable for a couple or a family
may be requested. Residents should not assume that their rural accommodations
will accept pets.

The program also provides or reimburses travel expenses for rural rotations
and mandatory academics.

Outside of their training, residents often find that they become quite
integrated into the local community, and are able to take advantage of the
unique social and recreational opportunities available at each site.

* * *

# Additional Information

**Travel Requirements**

It is expected that Residents in the Rural programs utilize their own
transport when traveling to and from teaching sites, within Camrose, and for
rotations outside of Camrose. A current driver's license and access to a
vehicle are mandatory in the U of A Rural Residency Program due to the
distances between teaching sites.

**Rural residents will also be required to attend several**mandatory**
academic workshops during residency. These workshops are held in numerous
locations in Alberta and the Northwest Territories and can be up to a week in
length. Travel and accommodations costs are provided or reimbursed by the
program for the resident only.**

**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)**

The University of Alberta recognizes the importance of diversity, equity,
inclusivity, decolonization, and indigenization (EDIDI) and is committed to
the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry’s policy on anti-racism.

Further, the University is committed to implementing the Truth and
Reconciliation Commission calls to action that are relevant to education and
medicine.The pursuit of diversity and equitable opportunities is a core value
that guides our selection practices.

The University encourages applications from underrepresented groups, including
Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women,
persons of a minority gender identity or sexual orientation, and individuals
who would contribute to the diversity of the medical community. The CaRMS
Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) is an optional form that candidates
can fill out.

Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism in residency
selection. We invite applicants to optionally complete and include the CSIQ to
assist our understanding of the diversity of applicant pools, but the CSIQ is
not currently utilized as part of our application or selection process. We are
using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable opportunities
for all applicants.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27472?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27472