#  University of Ottawa - Plastic Surgery - Ottawa  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2 click here

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Simon Frank  

Address Division of Plastic Surgery  
1053 Carling Avenue  
Ottawa, Ontario, K1Y 4E9  

Work  (613) 798-5555 ext. 10606

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Division of Plastic Surgery Website
](http://www.uofoplasticsurgery.com/)  
[ University of Ottawa - Division of Plastic Surgery
](http://www.med.uottawa.ca/surgery/eng/05e_plastic_surgery.html)  
[ uOttawa Plastic Surgery Instagram Page
](https://instagram.com/uottawaplasticsurgery?igshid=MzRlODBiNWFlZA==)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Isabel Menard

Title: Program Administrator

Email: imenard@toh.ca

Phone: 613-798-5555 x10606

  

Name: Dr. Simon Frank

Title: Program Director

Email: sfrank@toh.ca

  

Name: Dr. Sarah Shiga

Title: Assistant Program Director

Email: sshiga@toh.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

**All candidates must meet the Ontario Criteria of Eligibility**  found
[here](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-criteria/provincial-
criteria/ontario/).

**COVID-19 vaccination**

Please be aware that most, if not all, hospitals in Ontario have mandatory
COVID-19 vaccination policies in place that require, in the absence of a valid
medical or human rights exemption, proof of vaccination. Acceptable
vaccination must be in accordance with Health Canada. You will be required to
provide an attestation that you meet this requirement as part of the CaRMS
application process and any actual documentation will be collected by the
appropriate institution if matched. These guidelines could change at any time
in accordance with future direction from the Ministry of Health or the
Universities based on information from Public Health.

**MCCQE (Medical Council of Canada qualifying examination) Part 1 results** :

Trainees will be required to disclose their MCCQE Part 1 examination results
**if taken** , upon entry into any of the University of Ottawa's training
programs. **Please note that the MCCQE Part 1 is  not a requirement to begin
residency.** The purpose of this disclosure is to allow for resources to be
provided to the few residents who would benefit from extra support early in
their residency in an effort to maximize their success.

**Failure to meet or provide proof of any of the stated requirements may
result in an applicant’s file not being reviewed or removed from the Rank
Order List.**

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

All candidates must meet the Ontario criteria of eligibility
[https://www.carms.ca/match/msm/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/](https://www.carms.ca/match/msm/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/)

Please be sure you have reviewed and understood the requirements for your
application before submitting.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  * Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  * Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  * Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  * Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Examinations

Optional - will be reviewed

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three reference letters are required.

Reference Letters from Plastic Surgeons are preferred, but not required.

Reference letters from residents or fellows are not acceptable.

Late references will not be considered.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Your personal letter should not exceed 500 words and should answer the
following four questions:

  1. Why are you interested in completing a residency program in Plastic Surgery?
  2. Why are you interested in completing a residency program at the University of Ottawa?
  3. What is unique about you as an applicant?
  4. What would you contribute to our Plastic Surgery program?

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 6, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: The Plastic Surgery Residency Training
Program interviews are distributed nationally to best ensure applicant's
ability to interview at several schools. Our program hosts open houses leading
up to the interview date and residents will have the opportunity to hear more
about the program and ask any questions they may have. Interviews will take
place on February 6th, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Candidates will be given
consideration to interview based only on their application package. Successful
candidates will be offered interviews.  Interviews will be conducted virtually
by members of the Residency Training Program Selection Committee.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates are selected based on a comprehensive assessment of their
application (file review) and an interview. The processes followed for each of
these are described in the appropriate section of this Program Description.
The file review and interview score are combined in order to generate the
final CaRMS rank list.

## Program goals

The training of a plastic surgery resident at the University of Ottawa
residency training program will include the principles and practice of surgery
in general. These will include trauma, surgical emergencies, fluid balance,
nutritional support, intensive care, and the management of pre and post-
operative care.

During the Surgical Foundations blocks, the resident will gain experience and
proficiency in areas felt necessary to the training of a Plastic Surgery
resident, obtained by rotations on assorted medical and surgical services.
There is a shared responsibility for patient care in our health care system,
which includes the primary care physician, allied healthcare workers such as
nurses and physiotherapists, and specialists in other fields of medicine such
as Anesthesia, Radiology, Pathology, Rheumatology, Dermatology, Oncology, and
other medical and surgical subspecialties.

During the course of the residency the resident must acquire knowledge of
basic science necessary to the understanding and practice of Plastic Surgery.
They must also acquire the skills necessary for critical appraisal and for
continuing medical education. Residents must demonstrate appropriate
knowledge, skills and attitudes relating to gender, culture and ethnicity
pertinent to Plastic Surgery, and an ability to incorporate gender, cultural
and ethnic perspectives in research methodology, data presentation and
analysis.

Upon completion of the residency training program, the graduating resident
will be competent to function as a physician in Plastic Surgery.

## Selection process goals

\- Excellent academic record

\- Proven interest in Plastic Surgery

\- High level of professionalism and ethical practice

\- Collegial personality

\- Demonstration of intiative, self-direction as well as ability to perform
within a team setting

\- Engagement in life-long learning/self-directed learning

\- Honesty and integrity

\- Ability to participate in academic endeavours such as research and teaching
for the purposes of both learning and contribution to the Plastic Surgery
community as a whole

## File review process

Review team composition : The Residency Training Program Selection Committee
consist of the Program Director, Program Administrator, faculty members from
various Ottawa Hospital sites (Civic Campus, General Campus, CHEO) and two
resident representatives.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Educational background, elective experience, research experience, extracurriculars, work experience   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Breadth of electives in a variety of disciplines AND some plastic surgery specific electives   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Interests outside of medicine that contribute to personal fulfillment   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Previous experience in leadership positions   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Strong academic performance   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Clear explanation and justification for interest in Plastic Surgery as a career   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Attestation from supervisors concerning suitability of candidate for a career in Plastic Surgery   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Participation in academic research   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance and successful completion of all pre-requisites   
Other file component(s) |  Note: Personal Letter word count limit is 500.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

There will be NO requirement for electives in Plastic Surgery in the
evaluation of applications.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Describes teamwork experiences in a healthcare/ other setting.   
Collegiality |  Kind, and professional interactions with the everyone throughout the interview process.   
Communication skills |  Clear, concise and focused verbal and non-verbal interactions; appropriate emotional intelligence.   
Health advocacy |  N/A   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated knowledge of its scope of practice; exposure to the field clinically or for research.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated knowledge of offered training experiences; asks relevant questions about program.   
Leadership skills |  Evidence of leading groups, being captain, having great responsibility in healthcare/other setting.   
Professionalism |  Evidence of good moral reasoning, compassion, commitment and resilience in medical/other scenarios.   
Scholarly activities |  Describes experiences conducting research; describes future interests in research.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

1\. Resident Aesthetic Clinic

There is a comprehensive curriculum in aesthetic surgery. This commences early
in training. It involves exposure during the community rotation in the PGY2
year and proceeds in a stepwise fashion until the PGY5 year. The pinnacle is
the resident aesthetic clinic in which residents exercise a large degree of
autonomy in managing aesthetic patients. There are only three programs of this
kind in Canada. This represents a significant achievement for a small program.

2\. Microsurgery lab annually beginning in 1st year

Residents participate in 5-7 microvascular simulations on an annual basis as
part of a comprehensive microvascular curriculum. Taking place in our state of
the art surgical skills centre, a faculty member works with 2-3 residents in a
progressive program that incorporates simulated biological tissue, and live
animals to perform free tissue transfer and microvascular anastomosis.

3\. International electives

This program is unique as multiple faculty participate in surgery and surgical
education in the developing world. There are also options to engage in global
health rotations closer to home. All residents have the option to participate
in this program. This is a superb opportunity to interact with a diverse array
of populations.

4\. Anatomy dissection labs

Residents spend two months of each year in the anatomy lab to simulate the
elevation and transfer of free tissue transfers as well as perform routine
surgical exposures. This is designed to provide exposure to microvascular
reconstruction and to consolidate and solidify knowledge of surgical anatomy.

5\. Division Research Assistant

Residents have access to a division research assistant for resident projects.

6\. Funding for courses and conferences.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**CURRICULUM**

**The Ottawa Plastic Surgery Program  (and all other Plastic Surgery programs
in Canada) commenced a Competence By Design (CBD) Framework from the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada on July 1, 2020.  All residents
hired before this date will continue in the traditional framework.  All
residents hired after this date, including the current applicant year, will be
evaluated using CBD.**

Within CBD there is a Competence Continuum that organizes residency into 4
Stages of Training: Transition to Discipline, Foundations of Discipline, Core
of Discipline, and Transition to Practice.  The existing curriculum from prior
years has been reviewed and adapted to the new CBD framework to ensure that
residents achieve competence in all of the Entrustable Professional Activities
(EPAs) required of a practicing Plastic Surgeon.  All teaching and assessment
has been reviewed and modified as needed to achieve this goal.

For practical purposes of scheduling and rotation planning, residency is still
divided into 5 post-graduate years, although the CBD stages of training do not
necessarily correspond exactly to the PGY levels.  Although under the CBD
model, length of training is not necessarily fixed to a specific duration for
all residents, it is anticipated that the length of training for Plastic
Surgery Residency at the University of Ottawa will continue to be 5 years.
Training may be extended if residents do not achieve all EPAs and competencies
by the end of 5 years.  Shorter length of training is possible under CBD,
although would likely only be feasible in exceptional circumstances.

Stages of Training

**Transition to Discipline (TTD)**

This stage of training occurs primarily during the first 2 months of residency
during the PGY-1 year.  Residents rotate on Adult Plastic Surgery for Blocks
1-2.  There is a general orientation to the concepts of CBD and the assessment
platform used at the University of Ottawa (Elentra).

**Foundations of Discipline**

This stage of training occurs roughly during the PGY 1-2 years.  

The rotations during PGY 1-2 have been designed to provide overall
comprehensive surgical training, to allow residents to achieve competence in
all applicable Plastic Surgery EPAs, and to allow for completion of all EPAs
required for Surgical Foundations.  

**_PGY1 &2 -_**_  These years are part of the Surgical Foundations Program and
it is anticipated that, at the end of them, residents will be prepared to sit
the Surgical Foundations and MCCQE II examinations._

_Rotations satisfy the specialty requirements and will be selected from:_

_Emergency medicine_

_Orthopaedic surgery_

_General surgery_

_MOH's  _

_ICU_

_Plastic Surgery (12-13 blocks)_

_Otolaryngology_

_Vascular_

_Neurosurgery_

_Oculoplastic Surgery_

_Oral Surgery_

_Burns - 2 blocks in PGY 2 or 3  in a Burn Unit in another city_

**Core of Discipline**

This stage of training occurs roughly during the PGY 3-4 years and first half
of PGY-5.

Residents rotate through all teaching sites and services to obtain a
comprehensive exposure to all facets of Plastic Surgery.

**Transition to Practice**

This stage of training occurs roughly during the final 3-6 months of PGY-5.
Residents will continue to rotate on Adult Plastic Surgery, although will
focus their learning on acquiring additional skills required of a practicing
Plastic Surgeon.

**_PGY3-5 -_**_  These will provide exposure to all domains of Plastic Surgery
in tertiary and community settings.  There will be an opportunity for an
elective outside the city in a field mutually agreed upon by the resident and
program committee. There are 2 one-month elective blocks in the 4th year.
There will be graded responsibility, including chief resident responsibilities
in terms of supervision, teaching, and patient management, fulfilling all the
Canmeds requirements._

**ACADEMIC**

In the first 2 years of training, there are weekly Surgical Foundations
lectures and structured learning events under the auspices of the Surgical
Foundations Program Director.

The weekly academic activities are composed of:

1- Seminar series that occur every Friday morning and are organized following
a 2 year cycle so that there will be exposure to the majority of subjects at
least twice over the training time. These seminars will be prepared by the
resident with a supervising faculty member.

2-Journal clubs will be held monthly to encourage critical appraisal and
evidence-based practice.

3- Microsurgical Labs (Dry Labs scheduled in the morning and Wet Labs
scheduled in the afternoons) approximately 6 total.

4- Hand and Wrist Rounds held every Wednesday mornings, Patient Safety (M&M)
Rounds held every third Wednesday of the month and Specialty Specific Case-
Based Rounds held every Thursday mornings.

**RESEARCH**

Second to fifth year residents will be expected to produce a paper worthy of
publication in a peer-reviewed journal for presentation at annual Resident
Research Days and at national meetings each year. There will be support for
this in terms of protected time, finances for meetings, and statistics/study
design from within and outside the Division of Plastic Surgery.

* * *

# Training Sites

Ottawa Hospital - Civic Campus, General Campus, Riverside (outpatient) sites

Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO)

Queensway Carleton Hospital

Arnprior Regional Health Centre

Almonte General Hospital

Toronto - Ross Tilley Burn Centre & Sunnybrook

Private Facilities in both Ottawa and Gatineau



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26609?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26609