#  University of Ottawa - Orthopedic Surgery - Ottawa

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1 click here

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Kevin Smit  

Address Division of Orthopedic Surgery  
The Ottawa Hospital, Civic Campus  
1053 Carling Avenue, Suite J133  
Ottawa, Ontario, K1Y 4E9  

Work  (613) 798-5555 ext. 18596

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Orthopaedic Surgery Website
](https://www.uottawaortho.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Sylvia Behrens

Title: Program Administrator

Email: sbehrens@toh.ca

Phone: 613-798-5555 ext 10605

  

Name: Dr. Karl-Andre Lalonde

Title: Program Director

Email: karllalonde@toh.ca

Phone: (613) 737-8899 x18596

  

* * *

# Important Information

**All candidates must meet the Ontario Criteria of Eligibility**  found
[here](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-criteria/provincial-
criteria/ontario/).

**COVID-19 vaccination**

Please be aware that most, if not all, hospitals in Ontario have mandatory
COVID-19 vaccination policies in place that require, in the absence of a valid
medical or human rights exemption, proof of vaccination. Acceptable
vaccination must be in accordance with Health Canada. You will be required to
provide an attestation that you meet this requirement as part of the CaRMS
application process and any actual documentation will be collected by the
appropriate institution if matched. These guidelines could change at any time
in accordance with future direction from the Ministry of Health or the
Universities based on information from Public Health.

**Licensing/Registration:  **Must have documents verified through
physiciansapply.ca

**Failure to meet or provide proof of any of the stated requirements may
result in an applicant’s file not being reviewed or removed from the Rank
Order List.**

* * *

# Return of Service

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

All candidates must meet the Ontario criteria of eligibility.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  * Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  * Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  * Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  * Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Language assessment document accepted:  **TOEFL-iBT

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum score of 93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section. The TOEFL iBT Home Edition will be accepted as a substitute for the TOEFL iBT

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:**  must have minimum score of 7.0 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Occupational English Test (OET)
-Medicine

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP)

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum score of 9.0 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Letter of language proficiency

  * Letter of language proficiency is a letter from your Dean attesting that your medical school program of instruction was completed solely in English or French
  * Alternatively, candidates can submit a printout from the [World Directory of Medical Schools](http://www.wdoms.org/) which clearly states that the language of instruction is English or French.

Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site. Please
review specific program descriptions for more information.

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

**Results must be provided by File Review Date.**

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

**Results must be provided by File Review Date.**

  * **Note:  MCCQE part II passing score can be used to apply instead of the NAC passing score.**

Optional - will be reviewed

USMLE1

* Document

* USMLE - Step 1

If available

USMLE2-CK

* Document

* USMLE - Step 2 - Clinical Knowledge (CK)

If available

USMLE3

* Document

* USMLE - Step 3

If availabe

MCCQE Part II

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part II - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part II - Supplemental Information Report

If available

Reference documents

Required

Orthopedic Surgery structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

The personal letter does not have defined criteria; its purpose is to showcase
individual passions, strengths, experiences, and interests pertinent to a
career in orthopedic surgery, along with the motivations for selecting this
Residency Program. **There is no restriction on word count for the personal
letter.**

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Photo in JPEG format please.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Documentation of prior postgraduate training

If Applicable

Detailed outline of medical practice experience

If available

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

**Must be a graduate from an acceptable medical school listed on the World
Directory of Medical Schools website at<http://www.wdoms.org/>.**

Order from your Registrar. Must be English original or certified translation.



Optional - will be reviewed

LMCC Certificate

If Applicable

Postgraduate Medical Training Certificate

If Applicable

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All files are reviewed by the Program Director and selected members of the
Residency Training Committee.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 23, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews are scheduled virtually for**
Thursday, January 23, 2025**  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Candidates to be interviewed will be
contacted via email by the Program Administrator. Interviews will be conducted
virtually via an online platform by the Program Director, members of the
Residency Training Committee and resident representatives.  
  
There will be a lunchtime presentation given by the Chief resident, and
residents will be available that day to answer any questions you may have.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

**Pre-Residency Program**

All International Medical Graduates accepted to all residency programs will be
required to complete the Pre-Residency Program (PRP) prior to entering a
residency program. Matched IMGs will be expected to attend the PRP virtually
and in-person through [Touchstone
Institute](https://touchstoneinstitute.ca/learning/preresidencyprogram/).

The University of Ottawa encourages applications from IMGs.  Serious
consideration will be given to candidates who fulfill the following selection
criteria:

\- Demonstrated academic achievement

\- Recent graduate from Medical School or an advanced training program

\- Demonstrated proficiency in English

\- Demonstrated interest in and knowledge of the Canadian Health Care System

## Program goals

The mission is to achieve the Goals and Objectives of Orthopaedic Surgery
training in an environment that fosters education, critical appraisal, and
intellectual curiosity in a collaborative, stimulating, and supporting
atmosphere, such that the art and science of orthopedics are advanced for the
benefit of our patients.

Upon completion of training, a resident is expected to be a competent
specialist in Orthopaedic Surgery and capable of assuming the consultant's
role in the specialty. The resident must acquire a working knowledge of the
theoretical basis of the specialty, including its foundation in the basic
medical sciences and research.  Residents must demonstrate the requisite
knowledge, skills, and aptitudes for effective patient-centered care and
service to diverse populations.  

## Selection process goals

The Orthopaedic Training Program in Ottawa is a very strong clinical program
with emphasis on solid clinical and surgical training.  The applicants
selected to the Ottawa training program must have strong interpersonal and
communication skills, empathy and integrity and must fit into the collegial
fabric of the program.  The successful candidates posess the skills and
attributes to achieve all competencies in CanMEDS roles, such as;  Medical
expert, Communicator, Collaborator, Leader, Health Advocate, Scholar and
Professional.  

## File review process

Review team composition : Program Director along with selected residents and
staff surgeons.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 201 - 400  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Global assessment   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Global assessment   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Global assessment   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Global assessment   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Global assessment   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Global assessment   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Global assessment   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Global assessment   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Global assessment   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Global assessment   
Other file component(s) |  We will look at candidate's overall portfolio, include the criteria listed above and make a global assessment of each applicant.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage candidates to have completed a
sufficiently broad range of electives with at least one elective in
orthopedics.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Global assessment   
Collegiality |  Global assessment   
Communication skills |  Global assessment   
Health advocacy |  Global assessment   
Interest in the discipline |  Global assessment   
Interest in the program |  Global assessment   
Leadership skills |  Global assessment   
Professionalism |  Global assessment   
Scholarly activities |  Global assessment   
Other interview component(s) |  We will look at candidate's overall portfolio, include the criteria listed above and make a global assessment of each applicant.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Orthopaedic Surgery Training Program in Ottawa is a very strong clinical
program with an emphasis on solid clinical and surgical training and a
collegial atmosphere between the residents and staff physicians.  Residents
are supported throughout their training with longitudinal mentorship from
senior residents and staff.  Residents selected to the Ottawa Orthopaedic
Surgery program must have strong interpersonal and communication skills,
empathy and integrity.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The University of Ottawa Orthopedic program provides competency-based
orthopedic surgical training as directed by the Royal College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Canada. Residents are exposed to large volumes of adult
reconstructive orthopedics, pediatric orthopedics, trauma, knee surgery, spine
surgery, musculoskeletal oncology, shoulder and elbow, hand and wrist, foot
and ankle etc.  Resident research is emphasized throughout the training.

The first two years meet the requirements of  Surgical Foundations as required
by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.









The competency-based structure of the residency program is divided into four
phases: Transition to Discipline,. Foundations, Core and Transition to
practice.  All of the required Entrustable Professional Activities (EPAs) for
the program can be found on the Royal College website. A suggested sequence to
obtain all EPAs in their required time is as follows:

**Transition to Discipline and Foundations Stages**

The principle goals of the first two stages of the Orthopedic CBD program are
to give the candidate orthopedic and broad-based clinical experience. There is
a one-week intensive "Ottawa Orthopedic Orientation" specifically developed
for PGY-1s.  

**Transition to Discipline:**

Orthopedic Surgery - 3 blocks



**Foundations**

Adult Orthopedics - 11 blocks

Community Orthopedics - 2 blocks

Pediatric Orthopedics - 3 blocks

ICU - 2 blocks

Emergency Medicine - 1 block

General Surgery -  1 block

Vascular Surgery - 1 block

Plastic Surgery - 1 block

Research - 1 block



**Core and Transition to Practice Stages**

An organized schedule of rotations ensures exposure to all subspecialties:



Musculoskeletal Oncology

Shoulder and Elbow

Spine Surgery

Trauma

Arthroplasty

Foot and Ankle

Pediatric Orthopedics

Hand and Wrist

Knee Surgery

Research





**Research**  

Two research projects with manuscripts must be complete  during the core stage
of training.  There are dedicated research rotation in order to provide the
necessary time to hone and develop research skills, and to complete these
projects.

**Seminars**

The Orthopaedic Surgery program provides an extensive teaching curriculum
including: Thursday afternoon academic half-day program, surgical skills labs,
monthly journal clubs, daily teaching rounds, quarterly visiting professors,
and summer anatomy program.



**Teaching Hospitals**

Residents will rotate through all teaching hospitals affiliated with the
University of Ottawa including The Ottawa Hospital,  the Children's Hospital
of Eastern Ontario and Hopital Montfort. They will also complete their
Community Orthopedics rotation at the Hopital de Hull  



**Rounds at the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario**

Second Monday of the month 1600-1700:  Orthopedic/Radiology Rounds

Wednesday 0700-0800:  Pediatric Orthopedic Rounds

Friday 0730-0830:  Pre-op Planning Rounds



**Rounds at the Civic Campus**

Monday 0700-0800:  Weekend Handover Rounds

Tuesday 0700-0800:  Trauma and Continuous Quality Improvement Rounds

Wednesday 0700-0800:  Foot and Ankle Rounds alternating with Hand and Wrist
Rounds , Department of Surgery Grand Rounds and Orthopedic Citywide Grand
Rounds

Thursday 0700-0800: Arthroplasty Rounds alternating with Joint Preservation
Knee Rounds

Friday 0700-0800:  Spine Rounds alternating with Upper Extremity Rounds



**Rounds at the General Campus**

Monday 0700-0800:  Musculoskeletal Oncology Rounds

Tuesday 0700-0800:  Trauma and Continuous Quality Improvement Rounds

Wednesday 0700-0800: Sub-specialty Rounds Rotating Topics  alternating with
the Department of Surgery Grand Rounds and Orthopedic Citywide Grand Rounds

Thursday 0700-0800:  Arthroplasty Rounds alternating with Joint Preservation
Rounds

Friday 0700-0800:  Upper Extremity Rounds alternating with Spine Rounds



**Rounds at the Hull Hospital**

Wednesday 0630-0730:  Fracture Rounds



* * *

# Training Sites



The Ottawa Hospital's Civic, General and Riverside Campuses, Children's
Hospital of Eastern Ontario, Hull Hospital and Montfort Hospital.

\- All orthopedic subspecialties are represented, all rotations are
subspecialty-based offering a broad and comprehensive exposure to orthopedic
surgery

\- State of the art operating theatres and critical care wing

\- State of the art surgical skills lab at the Civic Campus

\- Twenty-five full time orthopedic surgeons at The Ottawa Hospital and CHEO

\- Large clinical volumes, dedicated teaching faculty and strong cohesive
group of residents

\- Dedicated research rotation

\- Clinical elective block



**Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario**

401 Smyth Road

Ottawa, Ontario

K1H 8L1



**The Ottawa Hospital: Civic Campus**

1053 Carling Avenue

Ottawa, Ontario

K1Y 4E9



**The Ottawa Hospital: General Campus**

501 Smyth Road

Ottawa, Ontario

K1H 8L6



**The Ottawa Hospital: Riverside Campus**

1967 Riverside Drive

Ottawa, Ontario

K1H 7W9



**Hospital Montfort**

713 Montreal Rd

Ottawa, ON

K1K 0T2



**Hull Hospital**

116 Lionel Emond Boulevard

Gatineau, Quebec

J8Y 1W7



* * *

# Additional Information

The Orthopedic Residency Training Program is fully accredited by the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

The program offers unparalleled orthopedic training in a cohesive and
supportive environment.  Research opportunities are supported and promoted by
the Division.  Residents are funded for a variety of courses and conferences
throughout their residency. First year residents undergo an intensive
orientation in July and are sponsored for the ATLS course.  Senior residents
are sponsored for the Orthopedic Basic Science course in October of each year.

Residents have the opportunity to pursue Masters and PhD degrees with the
Clinical Investigator Program.

Additionally, residents have the opportunity to pursue Master's degree in
**CTM -**  (**Clinical Science and Translational Medicine**) in parallel to
their residency program.  This program offers comprehensive multidisciplinary
education in clinical science and translational research, allowing residents
to specialize in one of eight fields including Musculoskeletal science.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26575?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26575