#  McGill University - Internal Medicine - Montreal

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Regular Stream for All  

##  Last approved on October 07, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 30

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. NingZi Sun  

Address Medicine  
MUHC - Royal Victoria Hospital, Rm C09.1278  
1001 Boulevard Decarie  
Montreal, Quebec, H4A 3J1  

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Internal Medicine Residency Training Program
](http://www.mcgill.ca/internalmedres/)  
[ McGill Simulation Centre ](http://www.mcgill.ca/medsimcentre/)  
[ Post Graduate Medical Education ](http://www.medicine.mcgill.ca/postgrad/)  
[ Federation of Medical Residents of Quebec (English)
](http://www.fmrq.qc.ca/en)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. NingZi Sun

Title: Program Director

  

Name: Dr. Jonathan How

Title: Assistant Program Director

  

Name: Brandy Phillips

Title: Program Administrator

Email: residency.internalmed@mcgill.ca

  

Name: Dr. Samuel Mamane

Title: Site Program Director, Jewish General Hospital

  

Name: Dr. Sana Swaleh

Title: Site Program Director, Montreal General Hospital

  

Name: Dr. Penny Toliopoulos

Title: Site Program Director, Royal Victoria Hospital

  

Name: Angie Sacratini

Title: Site Program Administrator, Jewish General Hospital

Email: residency.imjgh@mcgill.ca

  

Name: Sandra Persaud

Title: Site Program Administrator, Montreal General Hospital

Email: residency.immgh@mcgill.ca

  

Name: Carol Seguin

Title: Site Program Administrator, Royal Victoria Hospital

Email: residency.imrvh@mcgill.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

All incoming trainees matched to McGill Internal Medicine will be invited to
attend hospital and program orientation sessions in late June 2025. At the
program orientation, they will receive detailed information about the training
program, each hospital site, and have a chance to meet their colleagues.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP must be submitted with each application.  
EITHER:

  * A copy of Canadian Birth Certificate or a copy of Certificate of Canadian Citizenship

OR

  * A copy of Permanent Resident Card (copy of both sides of the card) OR a copy of an IMM 5292, IMM 1000, IMM 5688;   
NB: the Permanent Resident card can be expired.

OR

  * A copy of Citizenship Card (copy of both sides of the card)

P.S: the passport is not an acceptable proof of citizenship.

Each year, all candidates applying in a CaRMS match must provide proof of
valid current citizenship or permanent resident status. As of the 2021 R-1
match cycle, CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate
the citizenship/legal status verification, which is usually completed by
Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) offices.

if an applicant has had their citizenship/legal status documentation verified
by any of the following organizations for the current R-1 match, the applicant
will not be required to assign a proof of citizenship/PR document (as pictured
in the screenshot below).

  * Medical Council of Canada ([MCC](https://mcc.ca/))
  * British Columbia's Clinical Assessment Program ([BC-CAP](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/clinical-assessment/))
  * Bureau de cooperation interuniversitaire ([BCI](https://www.bci-qc.ca/en/))
  * Alberta International Medical Graduate Program ([AIMG](https://www.aimg.ca/))

For further information, please check the following link on CaRMS:
[https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-
citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-)

Examinations

Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the MCCQE Part I exam, please include the statement of
results and supplemental information report in your application.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the NAC exam, please include the statement of results and
supplemental information report in your application. The MCCQE Part II or
Certificate of Registration of the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada
(LMCC) is accepted in place of the NAC Examination.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

We require a total of **THREE (3) letters of reference**. We accept French
documents.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Your personal letter should help us to understand what event or situation led
you to want a career in Internal Medicine. Specifically, we want to know what
attracted you to apply to McGill's Internal Medicine Program. Maximum 500
words.

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Additional required IMG documents

Lettre de reconnaissance de l'équivalence du diplôme MD

Please provide the results of the exams that permitted you to have your
medical degree recognized and approved by the CMQ.

Graduates with the diploma of doctor of osteopathy awarded by a school of
osteopathic medicine situated in the United States providing that the school
is accredited by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the
American Osteopathic Association do not have to obtain the recognition of the
equivalence of the medical diploma by the CMQ. These graduates do not require
the MCCQE Part I, the National Assessment Collaboration (NAC), or the
Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada (LMCC) in order to apply.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Members of the Training Program will review the files of all applicants to
McGill Internal Medicine. Based on the quality of the application, selected
applicants will be invited for interviews.

Offers to interview will be made on **January 10, 2025, at 12:00 noon EST**.
Internal Medicine programs across the country use an external website for
booking CaRMS interviews. This system will open for viewing on the same day at
14:00 EST and you will receive an email with a login and password, this will
allow you to plan your interview schedule. The system will officially open to
book interviews on **January 13, 2025, at 12:00 noon EST**.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025
  * January 29, 2025
  * January 30, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will preferentially take place
on January 21, 29, and 30, 2025. International medical graduates may be
offered interviews on dates other than these.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Web based program used by Canadian Internal Medicine
programs.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews are conducted by faculty
member of the Trianing Program with or without an internal medicine resident
co-interviewer. Interviews generally last for 20-45 minutes and will be by
videoconference this year.  
  
Interviews will include a discussion of personal and clinical experiences
which have challenged candidates in some manner. Interviews provide an
opportunity to get to know candidates on a more personal level and for
candidates to ask questions about the Program. Your interviewers may not have
reviewed your application file (i.e. 'blind' interview).  
  
Toronto, Northern School of Medicine and Western Ontario candidates will be
contacted by Carol Seguin
([residency.imrvh@mcgill.ca](mailto:residency.imrvh@mcgill.ca)) MUHC - Royal
Victoria Hospital.  
  
British Columbia, Queen's, Saskatchewan, Manitoba & Ottawa candidates will be
contacted by Sandra Persaud
([residency.immgh@mcgill.ca](mailto:residency.immgh@mcgill.ca)) MUHC -
Montreal General Hospital.  
  
Dalhousie, McMaster, Memorial, Calgary, Alberta candidates will be contacted
by Angie Sacratini
([residency.imjgh@mcgill.ca](mailto:residency.imjgh@mcgill.ca)), SMBD - Jewish
General Hospital.  
  
McGill, Universite de Montreal, Laval and Sherbrooke candidates will be
contacted by one of the three administrators indicated above.  
  
US and IMG candidates will be contacted by Brandy Phillips
([residency.internalmed@mcgill.ca](mailto:residency.internalmed@mcgill.ca)).  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Applicants submitting an admission application must be able to demonstrate
with official documentation that they have either:

  1. completed their undergraduate medical education (Doctor of Medicine, M.D.);
  2. been in a residency program; or
  3. practiced medicine independently

within the four years preceding the admission application.

Preference will be given to applicants who can demonstrate that they have had
a sustained and continuous independent clinical practice for a minimum
duration of one year within the two years preceding the request.

Please note that observerships and telemedicine are not considered independent
clinical practice.



Concerning international medical graduates (IMGs): The results of the
standardized exams are used to classify the candidates' files. A score on the
**MCCQE 1** exam that is higher than 0.5 standard deviation below the average
of the exam cohort is a prerequisite for file consideration. High scores on
the**  MCCQE 1 and MCCQE 2 or NAC-OSCE exams** are given significant weight in
the file scoring process. Scores on **USLME exams** will also be taken into
account if available. Please provide us with the detailed results of your
MCCQE exam as well as results of any other standardized Canadian or USA exams
in your application.



McGill is looking for candidates who have the following qualities:

  * strong basic clinical skills
  * strong communication skills
  * a caring and empathic approach
  * teamwork and leadership skills
  * an interest in internal medicine
  * a strong sense of responsibility and work ethics

## Program goals

The McGill Internal Medicine training program is looking for academically
driven candidates that aim to deliver compassionate, professional, and
patient-centered medical care, which is grounded in scientific understanding
and meets the needs of society.

In conjunction with the McGill University Faculty of Medicine and Health
Sciences, the Internal Medicine Residency Program strives to develop the
highest quality physicians with an emphasis on the "Oslerian" tradition of the
physician as a healer in the practice of both the science and art of medicine.
The Residency Program is well seated within the McGill University network of
professors, scientists, physicians, students and support staff who represent
this internationally recognized institution. As such, the goal of the
Residency Program is to encourage the development of outstanding careers in
each trainee's field of interest.

## Selection process goals

A candidate to our program should:

  * Demonstrate a life-long commitment to the practice of internal medicine and its subspecialty
  * Always strive to provide safe, ethical and high quality care that is patient-centred
  * Be dedicated to self-learning and the teaching of others
  * Be a team-player in an inter-professional environment
  * Display excellent communication skills
  * Understand the importance of contributing and advancing scholarship
  * Recognize the responsibility to one's self and develop skills related to resilience and personal growth

## File review process

Review team composition : Each applicant file will be evaluated either
directly by our program director or assistant director, or by a member of our
Department of Medicine under the supervision of one of our site program
directors.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 401 - 600  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Academic, research, and non-academic achievements/recognitions   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Exposure and commitment to internal medicine as a career   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  If submitted, we will consider performance on any standardized North American medical examinations. A passing exam scores on Canadian exams (MCCQE 1 + one of either MCCQE part 2 or NAC-OSCE) are required for candidates who are international medical graduates (IMGs). For IMGs, we will also consider performance on any English (and French) language examinations.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Dedication to non-medical pursuits, work-life balance, and ancillary skills   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  We do not formally evaluate this file component   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic aptitudes and clinical performance in medical school. Academic ranking as compared to peers   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Understanding of candidate's goals, vision & values as it relates to a career in internal medicine. Explanation for any gaps or extensions in training (if applicable).   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Why referees support the candidate for a career in internal medicine   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Exposure and participation to scholarly activities   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
Other file component(s) |  ACLS training is preferred but not required prior to joining the program.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: Although an elective at McGill is highly encouraged, it is
not mandatory.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Experience in working within a medical and inter-disciplinary team   
Collegiality |  We do not formally evaluate this interview component   
Communication skills |  Fluency in written and spoken English; recognition that health care may also be delivered in French   
Health advocacy |  We do not formally evaluate this interview component   
Interest in the discipline |  Prior exposure and preparation for a career in internal medicine   
Interest in the program |  Understanding the structure and unique characteristics of the McGill internal medicine program   
Leadership skills |  Prior leadership experience, or recognition of leadership qualities working within a team structure   
Professionalism |  All aspects of conduct and communication throughout the interview process   
Scholarly activities |  We do not formally evaluate this interview component   
Other interview component(s) |  International medical graduates (IMGs) will also be evaluated through verbal clinical scenarios. Getting the right diagnosis or complete management is not required to succeed in this part of the interview. Performance standard used will be that of a pre-graduation medical student.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Resident Duty Hours**

McGill's Internal Medicine Residency Training Program follows the 16-hour duty
limits implemented in Quebec as of July 1, 2012. McGill Internal Medicine has
developed and continues to improve rotation schedules to ensure both resident
and patient safety needs.

**Leader in Simulation-based Initiatives**

McGill Internal Medicine has been developing and fine-tuning simulation-based
initiatives since 2006, when the University's Steinberg Centre for Simulation
and Interactive Learning opened its doors. McGill continues to lead the way in
the use of this exciting educational tool across all CanMEDS spheres. For more
information about the McGill Simulation Centre see the link under Program
Contact.

**Point-of-Care Ultrasound Training**

McGill Internal Medicine Program offers point-of-care ultrasound (PoCUS)
training as part of its Introductory Curriculum. It is also working on
implementing a longitudinal curriculum to complement the introductory
sessions. Its simulation curriculum also includes training on PoCUS-guided
procedures (e.g. central line insertion, thoracentesis). Ultrasounds are
available for use on the medical clinical teaching units, ICUs, CCUs, and
emergency departments, which offer Internal Medicine residents the opportunity
to incorporate PoCUS directly into patient care.

**Coming to Montreal and McGill**

Montreal offers the opportunity to live in a multicultural environment,
experience a unique pace of life and practice your French! The most recent
resident contract contains many benefits, including significant leaves,
vacations, teaching stipends and call stipends which add extra benefits beyond
the base salary. The cost of living in Montreal is extremely favourable when
compared to many similar-sized cities in Canada.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 3 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Core** internal medicine residency training

The current content of our **clinical rotations** is as follows:

**PGY1**

Rotation |  Duration (1 block = 4 weeks)  
---|---  
medical clinical teaching units (CTU)* |  3-5 blocks  
night float (NF) |  0.5-1 block (in the form of 1-2 half-block(s))  
emergency room internal medicine consults (ERC) |  1-3 blocks  
intensive care unit (ICU) |  1 block  
coronary care unit (CCU) |  1 block  
selectives/electives** |  4-5 blocks (of which 1 is made of 2 half-blocks)  
  
**PGY2**

Rotation |  Duration (1 block = 4 weeks)  
---|---  
medical clinical teaching units (CTU)* |  2-4 blocks  
night float (NF) |  0.5 block  
emergency room internal medicine consults (ERC) |  1-3 blocks  
intensive care unit (ICU) |  1 block  
coronary care unit (CCU) |  1 block  
ambulatory clinics |  1 block  
community internal medicine |  1 block  
selectives/electives** |  2.5-3.5 blocks  
  
**PGY3**

Rotation |  Duration (1 block = 4 weeks)  
---|---  
medical clinical teaching units (CTU) |  2-3 blocks  
night float (NF) |  0.5 block  
emergency room internal medicine consults (ERC) |  1-3 blocks  
intensive care unit (ICU) |  1 block  
coronary care unit (CCU) |  1 block  
ambulatory clinics |  1 block  
neurology | 1 block  
selectives/electives* |  3.5-4.5 blocks  
  
 *One medical clinical teaching unit rotation (CTU) will be replaced by a hematology clinical teaching unit (HTU) rotation during either PGY1 or PGY2 for residents based at either the Montreal General Hospital or the Royal Victoria Hospital.

**Selective may also include Scholarly Activity Rotation (SAR) or Integrated
Research Track (IRT)

Weekend daytime on-call duty is a mandatory part of the following training
experiences: CTU (and HTU), ERC, ICU, CCU.

Overnight duty is a mandatory part of the following training experiences: NF,
ERC, ICU, CCU.

Annual vacation (4 weeks) + conference leave + study days + sick/personal days
as per FMRQ contract

Protected time for CaRMS Medicine Subspecialty Match interviews (PGY3 only)

**Program's Formal Curriculum**

The Program's **Introductory Curriculum**  spans the month of July and is
geared towards preparing new PGY1s for their residency training. This
curriculum contains the following components: lectures on approach to common
medical emergencies as well as introduction to Competence by Design and to the
Quebec healthcare system, Fundamental Critical Care Support (FCCS) course and
introductory point-of-care ultrasound sessions.

The Program's **PGY1-2 Academic Half-Day**  is offered to all PGY1-2 residents
on a weekly basis from August 1 to June 30. It contains a mixture of didactic
lectures and interactive sessions in flipped classroom format given by faculty
as well as other teaching opportunities such as review of the JAMA Rational
Clinical Exam series, journal clubs, etc. This curriculum spans over 2 years
and includes topics based on the Royal College Internal Medicine Training
Objectives. Select lectures from this Academic Half-Day are recorded and
accessible to all McGill Internal Medicine resident via its online learning
management system (MyCourses).

The Program's **PGY3 Academic Half-Day**  is offered to all PGY3 residents on
a weekly basis from August 1 to end of Royal College Internal Medicine
Certification Exam period and consists mostly of protected time for self and
group studying. Practice OSCEs are offered as part of this Academic Half-Day
to help prepare PGY3s for their Royal College oral exam.

The Program's **Simulation Curriculum**  is delivered during Academic Half-Day
in parallel to lecture-based activities. Select residents are invited to
participate in these activities while others attend the regular Academic Half-
Day. Resident are generally offered the same simulation-based learning
activities but at different time in the year. This Curriculum includes the
following:

  * OSCE exams designed to assess knowledge and develop skills in preparation for standardized exams
  * Ethics/communication/advocacy sessions designed to assess communication and ethical problem-solving skills
  * Crisis resource management sessions designed to enhance and reinforce both medical expert and teamwork/leadership skills in crisis situations, including inter-professional communication skills
  * Procedural skills, such as lumbar puncture, arthrocentesis, central lines, airway management, thoracentesis, etc.

Entrustable professional activity (EPA)-based assessment forms are integrated
into all pertinent simulation activities to increase residents' opportunity to
meet the Royal College Competency By Design training requirements.  

**Other curriculum components** include the Teaching Residents to Teach course
(offered via PGME to PGY1s), American College of Physicians (ACP) in-training
exams (annually in PGY2 and 3), ambulatory care topic reading list (for
PGY2-3s), Institute for Health Improvement (IHI) Open School modules (for
PGY1s) and other content organized by PGME in collaboration with Canadian
Medical Protective Association (CMPA) and Canadian Medical Association (CMA).

Program-organized/approved academic activities are all **mandatory** and
**protected** (hospitals are provided with instructions to not page/call
Internal Medicine residents during their Academic Half-Days).

**Research / Scholarly Activities**

All residents in our program are expected to complete a Scholarly Activity
Rotation (SAR) project during their core training.  McGill has a world-
renowned reputation for research and allows many opportunities for residents
to be supervised by excellent faculty mentors. There are ample opportunities
for residents to be exposed to and become actively involved in medical
research in their training. Scholarly Activity Rotation (SAR) Directors are
available at each site to guide residents in this regard.

Many residents present their research at national or international conferences
or publish their research in leading peer-reviewed medical journals.

Residents who desire a career as clinician-researchers can apply for the
Integrated Research Track (IRT), which offers two different pathways. The
C-pathway offers approximately 3 months of protected time for graduate course
work to facilitate eventual completion of a graduate degree. The R-pathway
equally offers approximately 3 months of protected time but are designed for
residents who already have advanced graduate degrees (e.g. MSc or PhD) and who
wish to pursue intensive supervised research activity during their core
internal medicine residency training.

**Evaluations and Promotions**

In-training evaluation of rotations (ITERs) and entrustable professional
activity (EPA) assessments are completed using One45, and are reviewed on an
ongoing basis by the residents' site Program Director and the Program
Competence Committee. Every 6 months, residents meet with their site Program
Director to review their progress and career planning. There are formal
university guidelines which govern the promotions process, and are made
available to all residents.

* * *

# Training Sites

Core Teaching Hospitals include:

  * MGH - Montreal General Hospital (part of McGill University Health Center)
  * RVH - Royal Victoria Hospital (part of McGill University Health Center)
  * JGH - Jewish General Hospital

Residents will be exposed to all three teaching sites for most of their core
rotations (e.g CTU, ICU, CCU, emergency room consults, etc).
Selective/elective rotations may be done at any hospital site.

Community internal medicine rotations are selected from a list of accredited
Quebec hospitals within the McGill network.

* * *

# Additional Information

We currently have approximately 130-145 residents in the program. In the
department of medicine there are over 400 attending staff that may be involved
with training at any point in time (ICUs, CCUs, subspecialties, CTUs...).

The patient load on CTUs is generally 5-8 patients per R1; R2s and R3s have
supervisory and teaching roles. Our CTUs have approximately 22-26 patients.
All three base hospitals function in a similar fashion.

We have implemented a 12-hour night float system for night coverage on CTUs
across all 3 base teaching hospitals since July 1, 2010.  This replaces 24hr
call while residents rotate on CTUs.

Resident rights are protected by law in Quebec, and resident interests are
well represented by the Federation of Medical Residents of Quebec (FMRQ).
Please visit the FMRQ website indicated above for more information.

**McGill Life Sciences Library and Electronic Resources**

All residents are provided with VPN access which enables them to access
medical libraries and resources via the internet from their home or the
hospitals. These include UptoDate, and a vast selection of electronic
journals. Please visit the McGill Library website
(https://www.mcgill.ca/library/library-and-collections) for more information.

**Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada: Applying competency-
based practices to residency education**

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has introduced competency-based medical education (CBME) in Canadian
postgraduate specialty training and in professional practice in Canada. This
initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/competence-design-e), aims to enhance
patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving
patient needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education
process.

McGill Internal Medicine program has implemented CBD as of July 2019.

Although CBD uses time as a framework rather than the basis for progression,
the duration of training is not expected to change for the majority of
trainees. Residency programs are broken down into stages, and each stage has a
series of milestones based on required competencies. These milestones are
grouped into entrustable professional activities (EPAs), which can be directly
or indirectly observed and documented. These frequent low-stake assessments
are then reviewed by the Program's Competence Committee to determine if
residents have achieved the required competencies.

All programs operating under the CBD framework will continue to undergo the
same rigorous accreditation processes. All CBD programs (and traditional
programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved certification.
Within CBD programs, residents must achieve all milestones and pass the Royal
College examination to obtain certification in their specialty.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

* * *

# FAQ

.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26267?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26267