#  University of Saskatchewan - Plastic Surgery - U Saskatchewan_Network-U of
Manitoba

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on November 29, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Vidya Shankaran  

Address Mark Sheridan  
Surgical Foundations  
University of Saskatchewan  
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, S7N 5E5  

Work  306-844-1047

Fax

Websites of Interest

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: University of Saskatchewan

Name: Alisa Worobetz

Title: Program Administrator, USask Surgical Foundations

Email: alisa.worobetz@usask.ca

Phone: 306-844-1047

  

General Information: University of Manitoba (Plastic Surgery)

Name: Ellie Wiebe

Title: Program Administrator, U Manitoba Plastic Surgery

Email: plastic.surg@umanitoba.ca

Phone: 204-787-8036

  

General Information: University of Manitoba (Plastic Surgery)

Name: Dr. Christian Petropolis

Title: Program Director, U Manitoba Plastic Surgery

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Overview**

The University of Saskatchewan (UofS) and University of Manitoba (UofM) are
offering a networked training position in Plastic Surgery. This training
position has been created through a collaborative process between the Ministry
of Health for the Province of Saskatchewan, the University of Saskatchewan and
University of Manitoba, and is funded by the Ministry of Health for the
Province of Saskatchewan. It is anticipated the successful candidate will
complete the first 18 months of training (PGY1 & PGY2 July-December) in
Surgical Foundations and off-service rotations at the University of
Saskatchewan with training taking place primarily in Regina. The remainder of
the training (January-June PGY2 & PGY3-5) will be completed in the Plastic
Surgery program at the University of Manitoba.

The Ministry will provide funding to cover postgraduate medical training in
Plastic Surgery, including salary, benefits, and other expenses, according to
the terms of the Resident Doctors of Saskatchewan (RDoS) Collective Agreement.

Applicants are responsible for reviewing the program description to determine
if they meet all requirements and eligibility criteria. Failure to meet or
provide proof of any of the stated requirements or documents may result in an
applicant’s file not being reviewed or ranked.

All candidates accepted to must attend the mandatory University of Manitoba
PGME orientation day the last week of June before their PGY 2 year.

**Casper Test  
** All applicants must complete the Casper test. Please refer to the
Examinations section for more information.

**Licensing  
** Matched applicants must be eligible for an educational register license
with the [College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Saskatchewan](https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cps.sk.ca%2Fimis%2Fweb%2FApplicants%2FRegistration___Licensure%2Fweb%2FApplicants%2FLicensure%2FRegistration_and_Licensure_Landing.aspx%3Fhkey%3D75b022f8-df64-4f34-8e2a-a09bea881787&data=05%7C02%7Cnataghia.dore%40usask.ca%7Cd41d0f5134044a1982a008dce8b265e2%7C24ab6cd0487e47229bc3da9c4232776c%7C0%7C0%7C638641100350582654%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=kvFSTbBKltN1LS%2FQMUAC7YtWFViL7EZhMFN3snoBaLI%3D&reserved=0)
(CPSS) for a July 1st start date and must maintain eligibility for an
educational register license throughout their entire training program. Matched
applicants who are graduating in the spring will need to provide a copy of
their medical degree/diploma to the UofS PGME office and the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan (CPSS) prior to the start of residency
training. Any delays in providing all required documentation to CPSS may
result in the following:

  * delay in issuance of an educational register license and a delay in start of postgraduate training beyond July 1st
  * release from CaRMS match contract

Applicants completing medical education at the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream) are required
to submit proof of English language proficiency before the rank order deadline
to demonstrate they meet CPSS requirements. More information is available
under Supporting Documentation-Language Proficiency.

NOTE: Applicants who are considering a delay to their convocation date must be
aware that a medical degree cannot be issued to a student until they have
convocated. CPSS bylaws require that new residents must have received their
medical degree prior to the commencement of residency training. Choosing to
delay convocation will affect a matched applicant’s ability to commence their
residency training program in Saskatchewan on July 1. Please refer to the [U
of S CaRMS Deferral Policy](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/carms-deferral-
of-training-start-date---match-violation-release-from-match.php#relatedForms)
for additional information.

All residents must meet the licensing criteria for registration with the
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Manitoba (CPSM) for postgraduate
education during their training at the University of Manitoba. See the [CPSM
website](http://www.cpsm.mb.ca/) for information.

**Credentialing  
** In order to commence and continue in Postgraduate Medical Education
training programs, matched applicants must be eligible for and maintain
privileges within the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) as determined by
their credentialing process. The Saskatchewan Health Authority requires
successful applicants to submit immunization records and a current criminal
record check as part of their pre-resident application for appointment.
Applicants with criminal records will be considered on a case by case basis by
the College of Medicine in consultation with the Health Authority.

Any delays in providing all required documentation to the Saskatchewan Health
Authority may result in a delay in the start of postgraduate training beyond
July 1st.

**Resident Boot Camp  
** All matched applicants must attend a mandatory three-day Resident Boot Camp
scheduled for late June in Saskatoon. The purpose of the Boot Camp is to
provide additional support to trainees as they transition to residency by
introducing and consolidating baseline skills and knowledge needed to flourish
during their residency years. The program will include interactive case-based
and hands-on practice sessions. Stipends will be provided to trainees.

Attendance is required and absences are only permitted in exceptional
circumstances, with prior approval of the UofS PGME office.

**Advanced Cardiac Life Support  
** Matched applicants are required to provide proof of ACLS certification
(current as of July 1, 2025) to the UofS PGME office prior to starting their
training program. The ACLS course must be endorsed by the Heart and Stroke
Foundation of Canada and/or the American Heart Association. ACLS training that
is not certified by these two organizations and/or is completed entirely
through an online course will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for
all costs associated with obtaining ACLS certification.

* * *

# Return of Service

The successful candidate will be required to sign a Return of Service contract
with the Ministry of Health for the Province of Saskatchewan. The Return of
Service Agreement must be signed before the matched applicant can commence
their networked Plastic Surgery residency training program. Applicants who do
not sign their Return of Service Agreement prior to July 1 will not be allowed
to commence their residency training program.

It is anticipated that the successful candidate will complete the return of
service in Regina, or in an area of need as approved by the Ministry of Health
for the Province of Saskatchewan. If a candidate does not fulfill their return
of service commitment in the designated Saskatchewan community, they will be
required to repay their funding (resident salary and associated training
costs) plus accumulated interest.

Click [here ](https://medicine.usask.ca/documents/pgme/international-medical-
graduate-img-agreement.pdf)to view a copy of the Return of Service Agreement
for Saskatchewan. For more information on the return of service commitment,
please contact:

Bev Horne  
Provincial Practitioner Staff Affairs  
Saskatchewan Health Authority  
Email:
[Beverly.Horne@saskhealthauthority.ca](mailto:Beverly.Horne@saskhealthauthority.ca)

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

You are required to fulfill ALL of the most current Provincial Criteria for
Canadian Medical Graduates for Saskatchewan  
The criteria can be found at:https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/saskatchewan/



* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

All applicants must be Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents at the time of
application and must submit a notarized/certified photocopy of one of the
accepted citizenship documents.

Proof of citizenship must be current at the time of application and expired
documents will not be accepted.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum of 7.0 in each of the components

**Language assessment document accepted:**

  1. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on paper at a test venue
  2. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on a computer at a test venue
  3. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine at Home

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum grade of B

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of 9 in all sections

Applicants may be required to provide proof of proficiency in the English
language to meet licensing requirements of the [College of Physicians and
Surgeons (CPSS) of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Licensure/Requirements_Content/English_Language_Proficiency.aspx).

Applicants who graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States,
where English is the language of instruction **are not**  required to submit
proof of English language proficiency.

**Canadian applicants with medical education from the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)  are required
**to meet the English language proficiency requirements of the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan and must complete one of the language
exams listed above.

Applicants who are required to complete a language exam must submit a valid
test score in their CaRMS application **by the deadline for submission and
assignment of applications and documents.** Applicants who do not provide
acceptable proof of language proficiency, if required, will not be ranked.

Applicants must meet all of the criteria in one of the IELTS, OET or CELPIP
examinations. Please note that results from examinations cannot be combined,
unless the testing institution offers a sub-test.  
NOTE: Only OET offers sub-tests. CPSS will accept sub-tests obtained within
the same 24-month period as the original OET exam was sat.

Please direct any questions about language requirements to
[della.toews@usask.ca](mailto:della.toews@usask.ca). Applicants should not
contact CPSS directly about their eligibility for licensure.

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Optional - will be reviewed

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required and should be written by Staff. Please
see selection criteria.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter should state what you feel is of importance about yourself-
that makes you a good candidate for Plastic Surgery and why you have chosen
Plastic Surgery as your specialty.

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All applicants are reviewed by our Selection committee. These are ranked and a
short list is developed. All applicants are then notified as to whether or not
they will be invited to interview.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 29, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held on January 29,
2025.  
  



Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Applications to the Plastic Surgery
networked training position will be reviewed in collaboration between
representatives of the Department of Surgery at the College of Medicine, UofS
and the UofM Plastic Surgery Resident Selection Committee. The program will
contact shortlisted applicants and applicants who are not granted an
interview. Shortlisted applicants will be interviewed by representatives from
both training sites and decisions regarding the ranking of applicants will be
done in collaboration between the UofS and UofM.  
  

Interviews are 15 minutes in length (x 2), conducted by faculty members of the
Section of Plastic Surgery, along with a senior and junior resident.

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Individuals will be chosen based on academic performance, motivation for
training in Plastic Surgery, professional qualities and ability to work
collaboratively with others and commitment to returning to work in
Saskatchewan. Preference will be given to applicants who have a significant
connection to Saskatchewan.

The Section of Plastic Surgery at the University of Manitoba is committed to a
fair, equitable and transparent application process. We maintain the right to
choose the applicants we feel are the best people for our residency training
program. The following criteria will be used as a baseline to determine who
will be considered for an interview. However, not all applicants whose files
meet our minimum criteria will be offered interviews; only the top candidates
will be offered an interview. Please see Plastic Surgery Criteria below.

  * Graduate from an accredited medical school.
  * Must either be a Canadian citizen or have permanent resident status.
  * Must have a demonstrated interest in the surgical subspecialty to which they have applied.
  * Has never had disciplinary action from a medical regulatory authority.
  * Not more than 2 years since either medical school graduation or active clinical practice.
  * Reference letters must be current (within the last 6 months). Updated reference letters will not be accepted.
  * Demonstrated ability to be organized as evidenced by a complete application that is in accordance with our stated expectations. Extraneous documents are not needed and may lower your file assessment score.

## Program goals

The primary goal of the networked training offered by the University of
Saskatchewan and the University of Manitoba Plastic Surgery Residency Program
is to guide all trainees through a comprehensive five year program, whereupon
completion, the resident is prepared to practice as a consultant Plastic
surgeon, as recognized by the FRCSC designation from the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

The residency program maintains a desirable teaching environment through a
2:1, or better, teacher to learner ratio, and exposure to teaching faculty
with fellowship training in all subspecialties of Plastic Surgery.

The program supports protected time for residents to participate in an
organized academic half day, with additional sub speciality teaching sessions.

The program provides opportunity for individual development of trainees, and
the ability to achieve excellence rather than competence.  Trainees interested
in research inclination can pursue a one year MSc. degree.

The policies and guidelines of the University of Saskatchewan, the University
of Manitoba, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, and the
Resident Doctors of Saskatchewan are honored and upheld by the program.

## Selection process goals

Successful candidates for the networked training offered by the University of
Saskatchewan and the University of Manitoba Plastic Surgery Program should
demonstrate a strong interest in Plastic Surgery and an understanding of the
challenges commonly faced by trainees.

Successful candidates for the program should demonstrate a work ethic suitable
for the rigors of a five year surgical residency through other accomplishments
outlined in their application or interview.

## File review process

Review team composition : Review team composition for University of
Saskatchewan/Network-U of Manitoba program is composed of six faculty,
including the Program Director, teaching faculty and 2 residents, including
both senior and junior level residents, with representation from both
Universities. The CaRMS Committee is supported by our Program Administrator
throughout the process.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
This is a new position

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  
This is a new position

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  General understanding of the applicant   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Interest in the discipline   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  All applicants must complete a CASPer exam to be eligible for consideration   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Commitment to the community and work ethic   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of leadership skills   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Interpersonal skills   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in the discipline, work ethic and interpersonal skills   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Interpersonal skills, professionalism, work ethic   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in the discipline   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work in a team   
Collegiality |  Interpersonal skills   
Communication skills |  Ability to identify and describe problems   
Health advocacy |  No additional assessment required   
Interest in the discipline |  Level of exposure to and understanding of the discipline   
Interest in the program |  Understanding of features of the program and of the city of Saskatchewan   
Leadership skills |  Notable leadership experience   
Professionalism |  Appropriate communication and behaviour   
Scholarly activities |  Research and education experience   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Section of Plastic Surgery at the University of Manitoba is committed to a
fair, equitable and transparent application process. We maintain the right to
choose the applicants we feel are the best people for our residency training
program. The following criteria will be used as a baseline to determine who
will be considered for an interview. However, not all applicants whose files
meet our minimum criteria will be offered interviews. Please see Plastic
Surgery Criteria below.

-    Graduate from an accredited medical school.  
-    Must either be a Canadian citizen or have permanent resident status.  
-    Must have a demonstrated interest in the surgical subspecialty to which they have applied.  
-    Has never had disciplinary action from a medical regulatory authority.  
-    Not more than 2 years since either medical school graduation or active clinical practice.  
-    Reference letters must be current (within the last 6 months). Outdated reference letters will not be accepted.  
-    Demonstrated ability to be organized as evidenced by a complete application that is in accordance with our stated expectations.

Extraneous documents are not needed and may lower your file assessment score.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The residency training program complies with Royal College guidelines for five
years of training. The program consists of two core years, followed by three
years of clinical plastic surgery. For those residents who complete the
program and are interested in Fellowship training, further assistance will be
given to ensure that appropriate placement can be made.

The objective of the first two years is to give the trainee a strong
foundation in the basic principles of surgery. The successful candidate will
complete the first two years of training in the Surgical Foundations training
program at the University of Saskatchewan with training taking place primarily
in Regina.

**PGY-1 and 2**

All residents enter the Surgical Foundations Training Program (under the
direction of Dr. S. Harriman and Dr. M. Sheridan) and spend rotations in
General Surgery (13 blocks), Pediatric Surgery, Vascular Surgery, Thoracic
Surgery, ICU, General Surgery, Research, and offer selective time in various
other specialties including, but not limited to, Plastic Surgery, Urology,
Internal Medicine, Anesthesia, Emergency. The PGY-1 and 2 rotations will take
place primarily in Regina.

Training in the first two years of surgical foundations training will provide
residents with essential clinical skills upon which to add a Plastic Surgery
knowledge base and skill set. For more details on the Surgical Foundations
training program at the University of Saskatchewan [click
here](https://medicine.usask.ca/department/clinical/surgery-
pages/education.php "click here").

After completion of the first 18 months the trainee will transfer to the
Plastic Surgery Program, University of Manitoba. For more details on the
Plastic Surgery training program at the University of Manitoba [click
here](https://manitobaplasticsurgery.com/ "click here").

The University of Manitoba residency program maintains a desirable teaching
environment through a 2:1, or better, teacher to learner ratio, and exposure
to teaching faculty with fellowship training in all subspecialties of Plastic
Surgery.

The program supports protected time for residents to participate in an
organized academic half day, with additional sub speciality teaching sessions.

**Program Structure**

The Section of Plastic Surgery Program is monitored by the Plastic Surgery
Residency Program Committee, consisting of staff and residents, whom
continually monitor the program in both the core and plastic surgery years.
Feedback or concerns from residents are received and taken forward to the
Section for implementation.

**PGY-3 to 5**  
  
The clinical years of plastic surgery education are split into 3 month
rotations, to allow exposure to different attendings and all areas of plastic
surgery.

**Formal Teaching**

  * Thursday afternoon academic half-day (1 hr resident presentation, 1 hr staff/attending presentation OR 1 hr oral exam type round)
  * Wednesday morning hand rounds alternating with St. B Photo Rounds (with quarterly M & M rounds in lieu of)
  * Once monthly anatomy - cadaveric dissections
  * Monthly journal club
  * 2 to 3 Complicated Rounds annually - case presentations to review clinical examination and management of complex problem
  * Annual Oral Sectional Exam, Annual Canadian In-Training Examination for PGY3-5 (Canadian Society of Plastic Surgeons), Annual American In-Training Examination for PGY3-5 (American Board of Plastic Surgeons)

**Research**  
  
We have a Director of Resident Research within the Section of Plastic Surgery.
All residents are expected to prepare a research paper yearly for Residents'
Day and are encouraged to submit papers for the Annual Meeting of the Canadian
Society of Plastic Surgeons and the Annual Meeting of the American College of
Surgeons - local chapter. Upon approval by the Section, funding for travel is
available for PGY1-5's to present papers at meetings. The Department of
Surgery employs a Biostatistical Analyst.  An emphasis is placed on clinical
trial research.



* * *

# Training Sites

 **University of Saskatchewan: Resources**

  * [Royal University Hospital](https://www.saskhealthauthority.ca/facilities-locations/royal-university-hospital), Saskatoon, SK
  * [St. Paul's Hospital](https://www.saskhealthauthority.ca/facilities-locations/st-pauls-hospital), Saskatoon, SK
  * [Regina General Hospital](https://www.saskhealthauthority.ca/facilities-locations/regina-general-hospital), Regina, SK
  * [Pasqua Hospital](https://www.saskhealthauthority.ca/facilities-locations/pasqua-hospital), Regina, SK

**Educational Resources**

  * Library facilities and computers available 
  * Surgical Conference Rooms with dedicated computer/projector/internet access
  * Simulation Labs for Surgical Skills, both open and Laparoscopic, ATLS courses, etc.

**University of Manitoba: Resources**

  * Health Sciences Centre - General Centre -[HSC Website](https://hsc.mb.ca/)
  * Health Sciences Centre - Children's Hospital - [Children's Hospital](https://hsc.mb.ca/)
  * St. Boniface General Hospital - [St Boniface Hospital](https://stbonifacehospital.ca/)
  * Victoria General Hospital - [Victoria Hospital](https://vgh.mb.ca/)
  * Pan Am Clinic - [Pan Am Clinic](https://www.panamclinic.org/)
  * Free standing surgery facilities/cosmetic surgery centres (2)

 **Educational Resources**

  * Library facilities are available at the Medical College, Health Sciences Centre, St. Boniface General Hospital, along with the Section of Plastic Surgery Library
  * Microsurgery lab with two microscopes, animal facilities
  * Craniofacial plating lab with plastic skulls, miniplates
  * Funding is provided to allow attendance at one conference per year in years PGY-1-5. Funding for travel is also made available upon sectional approval for PGY1-5 residents to present at meetings.
  * One or two visiting professors of international stature are brought in each year for a full day with the section.
  * Resident's lounge with computers

  * Electives outside of the province or outside of the country can be arranged.
  * Ratio of residents to staff is 1:1
  * Average patient load is 10.
  * Internet access available.
  * Presentation(s) at the Annual Plastic Surgery Residents' Day
  * There are no mandatory rural rotations, but there is a community rotation.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27694?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27694