#  University of Calgary - Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation - Calgary  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 05, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. George Francis  

Address Department of Clinical Neurosciences  
Foothills Medical Centre  
1403 - 29th Street NW  
Calgary, Alberta, T2N 2T9  

Work  (403) 944-2061

Fax

Websites of Interest [ CaRMS PM&R; U of C Prospective Applicant Website
](https://sites.google.com/view/pmruofc/)  
[ Departmental Program Website
](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/departments/dcns/education/residency/physiatry)  
[ UofC PM&R; Instagram ](https://www.instagram.com/calgarypmr/)  
[ Canadian Association of Physical Medicine & Rehab ](http://www.capmr.ca)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: Division of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation

Name: Dr. George Francis

Title: Program Director

Email: george.francis@albertahealthservices.ca

Phone: (403) 944-2061

  

Name: Dr. Gentson Leung

Title: Competence-By-Design Lead

  

Name: Ms. Daphne Bates

Title: Program Administrator

Email: daphne.bates@albertahealthservices.ca

Phone: (403) 944-2061

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please visit our program website which contains all information about our
program, staff & resident profiles, the program curriculum, our CaRMS
timeline, and frequently asked questions: [Calgary PM&R Program
Overview](https://sites.google.com/view/pmruofc)

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Reference documents

Required

Applicant support form  Number requested: 3

Narrative letters of reference are no longer accepted for this program. Your
referees must complete the required applicant support form found here:
[Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Structured Reference
Letter](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/physical-medicine-and-rehab-structured-
reference-letter.pdf)

  * Three applicant support forms are required. 
    * A minimum of two forms must be from physicians who know the applicant well and can comment on their clinical ability.
    * One form may be from a non-health care provider, but is required to be from an academic researcher or professor, that can comment on the candidate's potential to pursue scholarly activity relevant to physiatry, such as basic science research, clinical research, medical education, quality improvement or health advocacy.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1500

  

A personal letter with a maximum word count of 1,500 is required. In this
letter, candidates should outline their interest in PM&R, what attributes they
possess for becoming a good physiatrist, and eventual career goals in PM&R.
Any specific reasons why one chooses Calgary as a place to study should be
mentioned.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

The documents for each applicant will be reviewed by the a committee of
physiatrists and senior residents using a standardized rubric assessment,
looking at all aspects of applicants including academic performance, elective
performance, extracurricular activities, scholarly activity and letters of
reference.  Decisions to offer or decline interviews to applicants are
collectively made by the committee members.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 28, 2025
  * January 29, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: The two (2) interview dates are Tuesday
January 28 and Wednesday January 29, 2025, and occur primarily in the morning
(8am - 12pm MST). Additional time may be set aside for interviews on the
afternoon of Wednesday January 29 depending on the number of applicants &
interviews offered.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process:

  * After reviewing the application, the residency program will invite short-listed candidates for an interview.
  * Applicants will be interviewed formally by the program director, chief residents, and staff physiatrists. The interview will be split up into up to 3 separate sessions.
  * All interviews will take place via a virtual format.  Therefore, it will be important for applicants to have computer hardware with a mic and webcam, as well as a strong internet connection.

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

The PM&R Residency Training Program at the University of Calgary is focused on
the wellbeing and the specialty training of the residents within our program,
so that they can become competent physiatrists that pursue excellence in
clinical care, medical education, administration and scholarly work.  We
strive to foster a positive workplace culture that recognizes the value and
worth of our residents, and their important role in the provision of excellent
patient care.

## Selection process goals

Our program is looking for bright, energetic, and passionate people dedicated
to receiving and progressing through excellent training in physiatry, as well
as giving back to improve and advance our residency program.  Some general
characteristics the residency program is looking for in applicants include:

  * A solid academic standing.
  * A strong commitment to a career in PM&R.
  * Excellent communication skills, ability to work in an interdisciplinary team, and strong interpersonal skills.
  * Applicants with an interest and proven experience in scholarly activity (including any of basic sciences, clinical research, medical education, health advocacy, quality improvement) are encouraged to apply.
  * Applicants should demonstrate and highlight their accomplishments in community engagement, longitudinal commitment to activity & personal development, an understanding of PM&R and interest/experience in rehabilitation populations.

## File review process

Review team composition : The CaRMS Search and Selection Committee is
comprised of academic physiatrists, community physiatrists and senior
physiatry residents within the Calgary program.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Organized, succinct summary of pertinent information regarding the applicant.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Electives including a breadth of experiences in physiatry and related fields, as well as a variety of locations - all within context of what the applicant's home medical school is able to permit.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Any notes regarding examinations during medical school as described in applicant transcripts and rotation evaluations will be considered.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Commitment & dedication to the pursuit of excellence.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Examples of leadership roles and experiences.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  General comments regarding applicant's performance during medical school, including all pre-clerkship and clerkship rotations.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstration of a commitment to pursuing PM&R; training, and a discussion around the reasons for interest in the Calgary PM&R; Residency Program.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Examples of commitment & dedication to the pursuit of excellence.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Demonstration of interest in & understanding of scholarly work in any of basic science, clinical, quality improvement, medical education, and health advocacy work.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Medical school transcript reviewed.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

While we do not require applicants to have done onsite electives, we will have
a better understanding of your clinical experience and characteristics
relevant to our program if you have done an onsite elective.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Examples of collaboration from the applicant's previous experiences.   
Collegiality |  Examples of collegiality from the applicant's previous experiences.   
Communication skills |  An ability to communicate clearly, both verbally and through presentations.   
Health advocacy |  Examples of patient advocacy from the applicant's previous experiences.   
Interest in the discipline |  An solid understanding of the depth and breadth of the field of PM&R.;  
Interest in the program |  An understanding of the culture within the training program as well as unique aspects of the Calgary PM&R; program suitable for the applicant's training & career goals.   
Leadership skills |  Examples of leadership from the applicant's previous experiences.   
Professionalism |  Examples of professionalism and personal growth/development from the applicant's previous experiences.   
Scholarly activities |  Ability of applicant to express understanding of the importance of scholarly work and PM&R.;  
Other interview component(s) |  The ability of applicants to receive constructive feedback and to use the opportunity as a means of personal and professional growth.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

[Please visit our website linked
here](https://sites.google.com/view/pmruofc/residency-program/residency-
training?authuser=0) for a comprehensive overview of our program. Some main
points are below:

  * The program facilitates learning in an atmosphere of collegiality and mutual respect through active communication between residents and faculty. Our program aims to serve both the present and future needs of our discipline.
  * There is a close association between our residency program and Neurology, Neurosurgery, Orthopedics, and Sports Medicine.
  * The main focus of inpatient Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation rotations is at Foothills Medical Centre (45 beds) and outpatient rotations across multiple locations within Calgary.
  * Our program offers exposures and training in all subspecialties of physiatry including ICU, cancer, pediatric and burn rehabilitation.
  * Electives and the Transition To Practice year are planned by the resident in consultation with the Program Director.  Residents have the opportunity to pursue interprovincial and international electives. A rural rotation is possible but not a mandatory component of the program.
  * At present, there approximately 50 physiatrists affiliated with the University of Calgary in both hospital and community-based settings. Our training program can accommodate two residents per year of training.
  * There is an annual joint OSCE practice examination organized in collaboration with the physiatry training programs at the University of Alberta and the University of Saskatchewan.
  * Residents have a variety of opportunities to gain competence with ultrasound-guided procedures, including in formal academic settings like practice sessions in the anatomy lab on cadavers, as well as in the clinical setting.
  * Resident wellness, mentorship and tailoring to career goals are prioritized and formalized in our program.
  * There is ample exposure to fellowships and fellows in physiatry, as we have recently developed five fellowship programs including pediatric, cancer, brain injury, stroke and spasticity fellowship. We also currently have a physiatry neuromuscular fellow.

[Please click here to see
highlights](https://sites.google.com/view/pmruofc/program-
innovations?authuser=0) of some of our residents and staff in the division.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Our residency program has been in the Competence-By-Design format since the
2020-2021 academic year. The curriculum consists of the following stages of
training:

Transition To Discipline (TTP, 2 blocks)

\- 1 block inpatient neurorehabilitation on Brain Injury or Spinal Cord Injury
Rehabilitation

\- 1 block of outpatient clinics in General Physiatry & Outpatient
Musculoskeletal Rehabilitation

Foundations of Discipline (FOD, 16 blocks)

\- 3 blocks of General Internal Medicine

\- 3 blocks of Neurology

\- 2 blocks of Orthopedic Surgery

\- 1 blocks of Rheumatology

\- 1 block of Geriatrics

\- 1 block of Psychiatry

\- 1 block of Emergency Medicine

\- 1 block of Palliative Care

\- 1 block of Surgical Clinics

\- 1 block of Cardiac/Pulmonary Rehabilitation

\- 1 block of Research (Introductory Course)

Core of Discipline (COD, 34 blocks)

\- 3 blocks of Brain Injury Rehabilitation

\- 3 blocks of Stroke Rehabilitation

\- 3 blocks of Spinal Cord Injury Rehabilitation

\- 3 blocks of Prosthetics & Orthotics or Amputee Rehabilitation

\- 3 blocks of Neuromuscular/Electromyography Medicine

\- 5 blocks of Musculoskeletal Rehabilitation/Chronic Pain

\- 3 blocks of Pediatric Rehabilitation

\- 1 block of Cancer Rehabilitation

\- 3 blocks of Research

\- 1 block of Quality Improvement

\- 6 blocks of Electives or Clinics & Consults as organized by the senior
resident

Transition To Practice (TTP, 13 blocks)

\- 13 blocks of longitudinal electives organized in consultation with the
resident's academic advisor & program director

[Please click here to see aspects of our residency
program](https://sites.google.com/view/pmruofc/residency-program/residency-
training?authuser=0) including Competence by Design, Academic Curriculum and
Funding Supports.

* * *

# Training Sites

Hospital-based rotations occur at various sites throughout the city:

\- Foothills Medical Centre

\- Rockyview General Hospital

\- South Health Campus

\- Peter Lougheed Centre



Community-based rotations occur at various clinics throughout the city
including:

\- Kinesis Medical Centre

\- Alberta Neurologic Centre

\- Infini Health

\- University of Calgary Sports Medicine Clinic

\- Chronic Pain Centre

\- Innovations Clinic

\- Evidence Sport and Spine

- Group23 Sports Medicine

\- Southland Sports Medicine

\- Southland EMG

\- Catalyst for Health

* * *

# Additional Information

Calgary is a growing dynamic city that offers opportunities for a wide variety
of participation in cultural and outdoor activities. There is a superb network
of trails throughout the city for biking, running and walking and the Rocky
Mountains are just fifty minutes away!

Calgary is known to be one of the [most liveable
cities](http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/calgary/calgary-economist-most-liveable-
cities-2017-1.4249212) not only in Canada, but the world.  

Every July, the city hosts the [Calgary
Stampede](http://www.calgarystampede.com/), the greatest outdoor show on
earth!

[Banff](https://www.banff.ca/), [Lake
Louise](https://www.banfflakelouise.com/lake-louise), and
[Jasper](https://www.jasper.travel/) are just some of the common tourist
destinations that are just a few hours away from Calgary.

Our residents are a close-knit group and for the summer months, time is set
aside for wellness activities during academic half day during which residents
engage in group physical activity and exploring the city.



For more information, [please visit our
website](https://sites.google.com/view/pmruofc/prospective-applicants/living-
in-calgary?authuser=0).



* * *

# FAQ

What is the structure of your neurorehabilitation unit?

The Tertiary NeuroRehabilitation (TNR) unit is located in Foothills Medical
Centre and houses 50 inpatient rehabilitation beds. This includes brain
injury, spinal cord injury, stroke and general neurorehabilitation patients.
Hospitalists are the most responsible physicians for inpatients, and the
physiatrists are consultants who round on patients several times per week and
lead weekly interdisciplinary rounds and family conferences.

Because our unit is directly integrated into the acute care hospital, for each
of brain injury, spinal cord injury and stroke there is both an inpatient TNR
physiatry consultant (who rounds on and oversees rehabilitation for TNR
patients), and an inpatient consult service physiatrist (who sees all new and
ongoing patients for potential inpatient or outpatient rehabilitation).

What is it like to be on-call in UofC PM&R?

When physiatrists are on-call, they are only on home call for TNR inpatients
(all inpatient consults and emergency room calls are deferred to the daytime
services). Residents are first call via home-call for all ward issues, and
have a staff back-up for second call.

Residents are required to go in and round on the weekends for both Saturday,
Sunday and any holidays to check on patients in person. During weeknights,
call for TNR is from 5pm - 8am. Residents may have to go in to see patients
overnight for acute medical issues. If a resident is in-house beyond 12am,
they may take a post-call day the next day.

Residents may be on call a maximum of 9 times per month. The call schedule is
organized by chief residents, and the majority of residents are on-call
between 4-7 times per month.

What are the duties of your chief residents?

Chief residents are self-selected by the resident group but typically consists
of two co-chiefs in PGY-3. This includes organizing the call schedule,
corresponding with medical students interested in our program, mediating all
resident concerns and communicate with the program director on a regular
basis. There are additional duties such as safety committees, helping with
CaRMS and attending residency program committee meetings & division meetings,
but these are shared among the PGY-4 and PGY-5 residents as well.

Does the resident group have autonomy in driving their residency experience?

Yes - our program encourages residents to self-direct their resident
experience as possible while also ensuring adequate support. This includes
individual residents selecting and organizing clinics & consults rotations to
their areas of interest, and arranging longitudinal research experiences. The
group as a whole self-directs their non-clinical endeavors including medical
education & research initiatives with support.

How much funding do residents receive in the program?

All residents receive $2000 per year towards work-related expenses such as
textbooks, learning resources, conference funding and technology. There is
additional funding to attend one Canadian Comprehensive Review Course prior to
writing the Royal College licensing examination.

How is resident health and wellness addressed?

All residents are provided with an academic advisor (a staff physiatrist
working in the resident's area of interest) and a senior resident mentor.
Residents meet with their advisors at least once every 3 months and with their
mentors at least twice a year to ensure they are doing well, with funding for
these meetings.

There is a wellness curriculum in our program with 17 topics to help address
resident wellness. One half day every 6-8 weeks is blocked off for personal
wellness time. Finally, there is funding for resident wellness including 2
resident retreats and 2 mentorship meetings per year.

Are residents equipped upon graduation to do procedures or practice in special
areas of physiatry?

Yes. There is ample time to complete EMG training required to challenge and
successfully pass the EMG licensing exam. 9 of our 10 most recent graduates
have passed the licensing exam without issue at the end of their PGY-5 year
without difficulty (the one other graduate did not write as EMG was not part
of their eventual clinical practice). Approximately 40-50% of our graduates
choose to challenge the CASEM sports medicine licensing exam, and all have
passed successfully. Finally, all residents interested in image-guided
interventions have ample exposure to gain experience and competence in
performing these procedures upon finishing their residency.

Are there opportunities for rural physiatry exposure?

Yes - we have physiatrists working in smaller areas outside of the city of
Calgary including in Lacombe, Red Deer and Lethbridge with a mix of general
physiatry including inpatient and outpatient clinical work. Exposures to these
areas can be arranged during the PGY-3 to PGY-5 years via electives, with
funding from the Post-Graduate office for accommodations in rural areas.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27298?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27298