#  University of British Columbia - Hematological Pathology - Vancouver

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on November 04, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Krista Marcon  

Address Pathology and Laboratory Medicine  
BC Children's Hospital  
4500 Oak Street, Room 2K51  
Vancouver, British Columbia, V6H 3N1  

Work  604 875 2939

Work  604 875 2044

Websites of Interest [ UBC Pathology and Laboratory Medicine
](http://www.pathology.ubc.ca/)  
[ UBC Residency Training-Hematopathology ](https://pathology.ubc.ca/pathology-
residents/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Shelley Berkow

Title: Program Manager

Email: shelley.berkow@pathology.ubc.ca

Phone: 604-875-4111 ext. 23125

  

* * *

# Important Information

Upon approval of requested interview dates, all selected applicants will be
invited to a formal panel interview.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

** **

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required and should be written within the last
12 months. A reference from a senior resident is NOT acceptable for this
application. At least one of the references should be from a specialist in
Hematological Pathology. Letters of references from specialists in Hematology
or other areas of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, are also acceptable and
preferred as supporting references. Additional reference letters from research
supervisors, or other attending physicians/ teaching staff are also
acceptable.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter indicating why the candidate is interested in Hematological
Pathology is required.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

The required personal letter should address the candidate's reasons for
pursuing a career in Hematological Pathology

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 22, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Upon approval of requested interview dates,
selected applicants will be invited for an interview.  
  
Date of interview: Jan 22, 2025 (morning)  
  
Interviews will be conducted by Zoom/Teams  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The interview will be a virtual
standardized panel format, with the Program Director, Hematopathology staff
members from various teaching sites, and one Hematopathology Resident.  
  
The applicant will have the opportunity to ask questions of the panel.
Applicants may expect a 30 to 60-minute interview block.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

  * An acceptable academic record
  * A proven interest in Hematological Pathology, preferably demonstrated by electives and/or research
  * Candidates should have acceptable letters of recommendation, preferably from specialists in Hematological Pathology, Clinical Hematology, or other areas of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine.
  * Candidates must have good communication skills, and the ability to work with a wide variety of people.





## Program goals

Residents in the UBC Hematological Pathology program are expected to
demonstrate clinical and academic excellence, exceptional interpersonal and
teamwork skills, interest in research, and a sense of responsibility and
dedication to the profession.   Residents are expected to be active community
members and demonstrate work-life balance as evidenced by their
extracurricular activities.  At UBC, we rely on the entire province for
training opportunities. Therefore, residents may be required to complete
rotations 'away' from your home base in Vancouver.  On completion of training,
a UBC graduate will be a  competent specialist in Hematological Pathology
capable of assuming a consultant's role in either an academic or community
laboratory.

## Selection process goals

  * Identify applicants committed to a career in Hematological Pathology, and those who will develop into exceptional consultant laboratory physicians.
  * Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability to interact positively with patients, colleagues, laboratory technologists,   
and other healthcare team members.

  * Identify applicants who have demonstrated aptitude for leadership, scholarship, knowledge translation, research, and continuous improvement.
  * Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability and enthusiasm to learn and are able to adapt to the  
various demands of residency training.  
  

## File review process

Review team composition : Program Director  
2-3 Faculty Hematopathologists  
1 Hematopathology Resident

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Education, Electives, Research, Publications   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Electives in our specialty, Evaluations   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  MCC exam results, IMG Clinical Assessment program results (if applicable)   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering (medical and non-medical), mentoring, other   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Holding office in a student government, club or organisation   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstrated Interpersonal Skills   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in discipline, aptitude   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interaction with colleagues, other medical team members, and support staff   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in participating in future research projects or quality improvement initiatives   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic Performance   
Other file component(s) |  MCC exam results, IMG Clinical Assessment program results (if applicable), Academic Performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Although not required for applications, completion of an onsite elective is an
asset.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Working in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Behavior, attitude, ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak and write clearly in English   
Health advocacy |  We do not evaluate this component   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated interest and ability in the specialty   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest in the program   
Leadership skills |  Ability to initiate programs, lead organizations or groups, and make an impact   
Professionalism |  Correspondence with staff, faculty or residents; behavior and attitude during interview   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Our Vancouver and BC Hematopathology community is committed to training our
future colleagues to be exemplary Hematopathologists.  We value a positive
attitude, sense of curiosity, work ethic, and collegiality equally with
academic and research accomplishments.  Our busy hospital and community
laboratories, which receive referral cases and samples from around BC, provide
abundant teaching material for our residents.



Learn more about the UBC Hematological Pathology residency program - watch the
video in the link below:

[Welcome to UBC Hematological Pathology Residency
](https://youtu.be/p8X7FMe_7co)[Program (Video)](https://youtu.be/p8X7FMe_7co)



Listen to the Medamorphosis Podcast interview

[There's More than Meets the Microscope with Dr Kate
Chippefield](https://podcasts.apple.com/au/podcast/s2-e5-theres-more-than-
meets-the-microscope-dr-kate/id1480760230?i=1000491378244)

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**PGY- 1 to 4  
** Over the course of the four-year program our HP residents acquire a sound
knowledge of all aspects of laboratory hematology. This knowledge must be
accompanied by a clear understanding of the basic scientiﬁc, pathophysiologic
and technical principles involved in our practice and adjacent clinical
specialties, such as Adult and Pediatric Hematology. Providing useful
consultation to the clinician requires expertise in the application of
laboratory resources to clinical problem-solving and expertise in the
management of a large, modern laboratory. The successful resident will also
participate eﬀectively in the education of medical and non-medical learners.
Residents in hematopathology must acquire adequate knowledge of basic science
in relation to hematology, laboratory management, quality assurance and
continuous quality improvement. Our HP residents gain wide experience and
expertise in morphologic hematology and pathology of the lymphoreticular
system, including the applications of ﬂow cytometry and molecular diagnostics,
in addition to expertise in transfusion medicine, disorders of
coagulation/thrombosis, and hemoglobinopathies. Since July 2022, all PGY1
residents in Canadian Hematological Pathology residency programs are trained
in a Competence By Design (CBD) curriculum format. CBD changes the way
residents are coached, assessed and promoted throughout their residency. The
fundamentals of training in Hematological Pathology (HP) have not changed, and
the strengths of our UBC HP program including case volume and variety,
teaching faculty, and subspecialty depth of exposure remain. Several useful
resources about CBD are available on the [Royal
College](https://www.royalcollege.ca/ca/en/cbd.html)
[website](https://www.royalcollege.ca/ca/en/cbd.html) as well as the [UBC
Postgraduate Medical Education
website](https://postgrad.med.ubc.ca/competency-based-medical-education/).
Under CBD, the residency is divided into four stages: Transition to
Discipline, Foundations of Discipline, Core of Discipline, and Transition to
Practice. It remains a four-year training program, rotating through teaching
hospitals within Vancouver and the Fraser Valley, including Vancouver General
Hospital, St Paul’s Hospital, BC Cancer, BC Children’s Hospital, Royal
Columbian Hospital, and Surrey Memorial Hospital. Additional experience at
LifeLabs and Canadian Blood Services occur throughout residency as well.
Incoming residents will be oriented to CBD when they start in July.
**Transition to Discipline** This stage serves as an orientation to the scope
of practice of Hematological Pathology, and is expected to take two months to
complete.    **Foundations of Discipline** This stage covers the basics of
Hematological Pathology over 10-15 months. This stage also includes
approximately 2-3 blocks of applicable clinical rotations in Adult and
Pediatric Hematology.   **Core of Discipline** This is the longest stage at
approximately 28 months.  During this stage HP resident will complete various
Laboratory Hematology rotations at the four hospital sites, and up to 4
further Clinical Hematology or Cellular therapy (stem cell transplant) blocks.
This stage will include flexibility of scheduling to allow increased exposure
to particular areas of interest and/or research.   The resident will sit the
Written portion of the Royal College Hematological Pathology Exam during the
Core of Discipline stage, in Spring of PGY3. The Applied portion of the Royal
college exam will also take place in this stage, in Fall of PGY4.
**Transition to Practice  
** This final stage allows the senior PGY4 resident to function at a junior
staff level in preparation for independent practice.  This 4-month stage
occurs after the completion of RC exams to allow the PGY4 resident some
flexibility to complete research projects as needed, and some special training
experiences tailored to their career plans.  
---  
  |   
  
  


**Research**  
---  
Residents are encouraged to initiate and participate in the numerous research opportunities available. Residents in Hematological Pathology are required to present an original research or quality improvement project at the annual UBC Pathology Day at least once in residency, and are strongly encouraged to present research in other years. Research and Quality Improvement are important aspects of Hematological Pathology, and there are opportunities to present research at conferences throughout the residency. |         
  


* * *

# Training Sites

**Teaching Hospitals**

\- Vancouver General Hospital (VGH) is a 900-bed comprehensive quaternary
teaching hospital. It is the site of the provincial Leukemia/Bone Marrow
Transplant program and the largest Transfusion Medicine Service in the
province.  It is also the site of the provincial Apheresis program, and organ
transplantation.

\- BC Cancer Vancouver (BCC)  is located next door to VGH. This site covers
the spectrum of cancer care from prevention and screening to diagnosis,
treatment, and through to rehabilitation. This is the primary site of clinical
and laboratory training in adult Lymphoid Neoplasms.

\- BC Children's Hospital (BCCH), also located in central Vancouver, is a
comprehensive pediatric teaching hospital and the pediatric referral centre
for the province of B.C.  It is the BC centre for pediatric leukemia care,
stem cell transplantation, apheresis, solid organ transplantation, cardiac
surgery and highest level neonatal intensive care.  This laboratory also
supports the adjoining BC Women's hospital which is the provincial center for
high risk maternal fetal medicine, including intrauterine transfusion.

\- St. Paul's Hospital is a busy downtown hospital serving an inner city
population. Residents see a large volume of mixed medical problems in addition
to problems related to substance abuse, and HIV related diseases. The Downtown
Eastside population is a unique population in Canada.

\- Royal Columbian Hospital (RCH) s a large community hospital located in New
Westminster, southeast of Vancouver. The emergency department census is in
excess of 60,000 per year.

\- Surrey Memorial hospital is the largest regional hospital in Fraser Health,
located in Surrey, south east of Vancouver. It is the second largest hospital
in the Province of BC, with the busiest Emergency Department.

**Resources**

The four-year training program involves rotations through all of the teaching
hospitals in Vancouver and participating community hospitals. A rotation in a
community hospital is required.

Electronic medical resources are available to residents doing rotations in UBC
teaching hospitals.  At each centre there are computers, dedicated laboratory
information systems, digital imaging, presentation software and related
educational and research resources.

At the beginning of residency, each resident is provided a complement of texts
(print or digital) recommended by faculty as "required" resources.  As well,
there are further funds for each resident for educational expenses as
approved.

* * *

# Additional Information

**Info about the program and what makes the program unique:**

  * Hematopathologists have a broad scope of practice in BC compared to some other places in Canada and the program provides excellent exposure to those areas
  * There is no shortage of clinical faculty willing and interested to help residents in pathology education, career mentorship, or guidance in developing and executing research projects.
  * Residents rotate through a variety of high-volume sites offering a variety of experiences and learning opportunities. Our Vancouver teaching sites are referral centers for the province of British Columbia (and sometimes beyond), therefore the case volume is relatively high.   Rare diseases (or unusual presentations of common diseases) are well-represented during rotations at these sites
  * While the majority of the curriculum is designed to meet Royal College requirements, there is time (and encouragement by faculty) to pursue areas of individual interest through elective rotations.
  * Our specialty requires excellent understanding of clinical hematology and our clinical rotations in residency are focused solely in these areas. HP Residents have their clinical rotations later in PGY1 and in PGY2 so that we can contribute to the clinical teams with knowledge of hematology laboratory practices
  * All sites demonstrate close collaboration between laboratory and clinical staff.
  * Because of the concentration of training programs in Vancouver there are many opportunities for residents to teach others, including laboratory technologists, medical students, fellow residents, and Clinical Hematology trainees
  * Many hematopathologists in BC continue to procure bone marrow biopsies, including pediatric patients, which allows great opportunity and support when learning how to do this procedure. 
  * The program has a robust Academic Half day schedule and also connects with Clinical Hematology Academic Half day to further enhance learning opportunities. There is a regular journal club schedule.
  * All sites offer practice exam opportunities to aid in objective evaluation at end of rotation, and to prepare for the Royal College exam.
  * The program has very reasonable expectations of residents, which oﬀers a good work-life It is a family-friendly city and program.

 **Info about the people, city and sites**

  * All the major training sites in Vancouver are close (within ~5km) to one another making commute simple from almost anywhere you live in Vancouver. Fraser Valley hospital sites are easy to access by SkyTrain/ transit.
  * Residents have designated work areas at all core training sites with good quality equipment for daily work.
  * Current residents and HP faculty at the sites are welcoming, eager to teach new learners, and easy to get along with, which makes it easy to ask questions.
  * The laboratory technical staff at the teaching sites are very knowledgeable, approachable and happy to answer questions.
  * The program administrators are extremely helpful and are exceptional at what they do.
  * Vancouver is a great city for year-round outdoor activities because of the temperate weather and proximity to the mountains and ocean. Highlights including biking to work all year and being able to go skiing, hiking, climbing etc. on weeknights. You could even go skiing and to the beach on the same day.Vancouver has a huge selection of restaurants and cafes with world-class cuisine from many cultures

* * *

# FAQ

**How busy is call?**

Call starts approx. 3-4 months into R1. You do home call for 1 week at a time
(evenings and weekends) and the frequency of getting called is very
manageable. The staff are also very helpful and available.  

**How many electives can you do?**

In R3 and R4, the program is very open to electives at other sites.  Residents
should proactively consider what electives may benefit them and approach the
PD and program admin to approve and assist with arrangements.

**What are the research  requirements?**

There are 4 dedicated research blocks with further blocks at the discretion of
the program committee.  Residents are expected to present at least once at the
Resident Research Day.

**Is it really expensive to live in Vancouver on a resident salary?  **

The cost of living has increased all across Canada, and Vancouver is no
different.   In general, Residents are desirable tenants which makes it easier
to find a rental home in the greater Vancouver area.   Public transit is very
accessible, which can help reduce gas and parking costs. Cycling commutes are
facilitated by safe bike-storage cages at our teaching hospital sites.

**What are the job prospects in hematopathology?  **

It is impossible to predict. However, all recent UBC HP graduates found staff
positions, with the majority working in BC. There are currently positions
advertised in Western Canada.

**What wellness opportunities are there?**

The PGME has an accessible Resident Wellness Office with free access to
counselling. Resident Doctors of BC offers financial support to resident
socials.

**What is a typical day like  in hematopathology residency at UBC?**

At main sites residents usually start the morning with review of peripheral
blood ﬁlms and body ﬂuid slides that have been collected overnight, then
reviewing these cases with the staﬀ pathologist. After blood ﬁlms and ﬂuids
have been signed out, residents usually review bone marrow cases currently
pending sign-out (including blood ﬁlms / bone marrow aspirates / core biopsies
/ immunohistochemistry / ﬂow cytometry and any other ancillary studies), then
review cases with staﬀ pathologists, and prepare reports. At some sites
residents will go to the ward with the technologist to collect bone marrow
biopsy specimens. Residents generally also address issues with transfusion
medicine, coagulation studies, ﬂow cytometry cases, and hemoglobinopathy
investigations as these arise (depending on the site). Within your day there
is generally time to get a coﬀee, eat lunch and do some reading around your
cases. In CBD format, residents will initiate on-line evaluations daily, based
on a case or cases which staff have reviewed with them, and send to staﬀ for
review and sign-oﬀ.

Other rotations (e.g. cytogenetics, molecular pathology, lymph node pathology)
include scheduled teaching, observation of technical aspects of practice, and
review of cases as they arrive before discussing these with staﬀ.

.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26334?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26334