#  Memorial University of Newfoundland - Orthopedic Surgery - St. John's  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 23, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Megan Cashin  

Address Discipline of Surgery  
H1378, Faculty of Medicine  
Health Sciences Centre, 300 Prince Philip Drive  
St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador, A1B 3V6  

Work  (709) 864-6499

Fax

Websites of Interest

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Megan Cashin

Title: Program Director (January 1, 2025)

Email: megan.cashin@easternhealth.ca

Phone: (709) 864-6499

  

Name: Jennifer Moran

Title: Academic Program Administrator

Email: orthoresidency@mun.ca

Phone: (709) 864-6499

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please review Memorial University's [Provincial
Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/) and admission requirements for postgraduate medical education.



**Orientation**

Applicants who match to Memorial University must attend orientation during the
last week of June. Details will be provided in March 2025.





* * *

# Return of Service

CMGs/USMGs:

No return of service (RoS) is required for CMG seats in the first iteration.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Exemption to English language proficiency testing**

  * If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States where English is the language of instruction, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.  
    * **If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States which provides training in multiple language streams, please self-identify which stream you graduated from, e.g. English-Stream, French-Stream, Spanish-Stream, etc.**

**Who is required to provide English Language Proficiency?**

  * If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States where the language of instruction is not in English (e.g. French) you are required to provide proof of proficiency in the English language. It is important to note that this requirement extends to all such applicants, regardless of whether other secondary/post-secondary education took place in English and regardless of citizenship.

The accepted English language proficiency exams, and the required scores, are
as follows:

  * International English Language Testing System - Academic (IELTS-Academic), with a minimum score of **7**  in each of the components in the same sitting;
  * Occupational English Test - Medicine (OET-Medicine), with a minimum grade of **B**  in each of the four subsets in the same sitting;
  * Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program Test - General (CELPIP-General), with a minimum score of **9**  in each of the four skills in the same sitting.

Exams must be dated within 24 months of the residency start date (July 1).
Results must be available by the CaRMS document review deadline.

Examinations

Optional - will be reviewed

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If applicable.



Reference documents

Required

Orthopedic Surgery structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

In 500 words or less describe your rationale for your interest in orthopedic
surgery, how your prior experiences have prepared you for a career in
orthopedics and why you feel our program and location are well suited for you
to complete your training.

Custom Résumé / CV

Memorial Declaration for Interruptions

ALL applicants must submit the [Declaration of Interruptions
](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/pgme/current-learners/forms/)form with their
application.

Consent for disclosure

ALL applicants must submit the [Consent to
Disclose](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/pgme/current-learners/forms/) form with
their application.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

(If available order from the Registrar's Office.)

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

(If applicable, order from the Registrar's Office.)

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: All interviews will be held virtually on
Monday, January 20, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The Orthopaedic Surgery Residency
Program at Memorial University is hosting virtual interviews.  
Please allow at least one (1) hour for an inteview.  
  
Applicants who are selected for interviews can expect the following interview
format:  
  

  * 15 minute interview with Panel 1
  * 15 minute interview with Panel 2
  * 5 minute interview with the Program Director

Interview panels will consist of orthopaedic faculty with resident
representation.  
Candidates will be notified by email with interview details and times.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

# Assets

The following are considered priorities in ranking applicants.

  * Demonstrates academic achievement at university and medical school level
  * References and CV reflects ability to get along and work well with others
  * Demonstrates an interest in scholarly activity and research
  * Extra curricular interests are suggestive of skills that are valuable to the field
  * The interview resonates personality and character that will be compatible wih the existing resident group

## Program goals

The overall goal of the Orthopedic Surgery Residency Program is to train
orthopedic surgeons to provide compassionate, contemporary musculoskeletal
surgical care to the community with standards in keeping with those defined by
the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. This pursuit
encompasses a primary goal to train competent orthopedic surgeons who are
ready to either proceed directly to practice general orthopedic surgery in a
community setting or to progress to a clinical fellowship of their choice in
an orthopedic surgery subspeciality. Our goal is to not only train towards
surgical competence, but also for success in non-medical expert roles and
balance in life in general, in an effort to encourage our residents to become
well-rounded practitioners who are capable of collaboration and cooperation in
the workplace and the community.

## Selection process goals

The successful applicant to our program will demonstrate a number of key
features. First, there should be academic aptitude to meet the educational
standards of our specialty through a demonstration of prior academic
achievement. Second, there should be a demonstation of technical capability to
grasp surgical priniciples, often shown through a variety of extra-curricular
activities and verified through reference letters. Third, there should be
demonstrated capacity in the ability to communicate and cooperate with others
in a professional manner, as demonstrated through positive feedback during
previous clinical rotations and reference letters. Finally, as our program is
smaller size than others, it is imperative for the functioning of our resident
group that the personality of the applicant is expected to be compatible with
the other residents; this will be assessed during the interview process.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team consists of the program director and
a committee reviewing and selecting applicants for interviews. Panel
interviews are typically arranged with 2 attending and 1 senior resident. They
all have access to applicant's CaRMS application package and CaRMS interview
guidelines.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Education, employment, extra-curricular activity, academic ability and work ethic   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Can be indicative of the quantity and quality of candidates' interest in our specialty   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Physical strength, proficiency in manual dexterity and technical proficiency   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Ability to function as leader in a team amongst other physicians and allied health   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  General performance over a broad range of clinical rotations and contain valuable feedback   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Establish the basis of interest in our program and serves as ways to distinguished them from peers   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Referees who provide strong recommendation in pursuit for their career choice   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Demonstrates an interest in completion of scholarly activity and ability to complete projects   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  General indication of academic prowess and test-taking abilities   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: A demonstrated effort by the applicants to complete
orthopedic experiences at their home institutions will be looked on favorably
by the selection committee.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We estimate the applicants' abilities to collaborate with colleagues and allied health   
Collegiality |  We predict the applicants' senses of professionalism in their interactions with colleagues   
Communication skills |  We foresee the applicants' abilities to communicate verbally with our patients and other providers   
Health advocacy |  We work with communities to determine and improve health needs.   
Interest in the discipline |  Establish if the applicants' career choice seems appropriate based on experience with learners   
Interest in the program |  Estimated to help our program select candidates who have genuine interest in what our program offers   
Leadership skills |  Effort to staff our program with individuals that lead with education, practice and accountability   
Professionalism |  Abilities that demonstrates an image appropriate for an orthopedic surgeon   
Scholarly activities |  Interest and ability of candidates to complete the required scholarly portion of their training   
Other interview component(s) |  All interviews will be conducted virtually for the 2025 CaRMS cycle.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Memorial University is located in beautiful Newfoundland & Labrador, where the
scenery and landscape is truly as beautiful as the tourism advertisements
suggest, and the people are a welcoming as rumored to be. Our program
encourages healthy work-life balance and is one where the professional and
social lives of our residents are often intertwined. This has always been a
welcome aspect of our tightly-knit resident group, who have enjoyed the
culture that St. John's has to offer and explored the beauty of our rugged
island together.

Prospective candidates are encouraged to contact us to discuss the program as
a potential fit for them. Please reach out to our Program Coordinator,
Jennifer Moran (orthoresidency@mun.ca) to schedule an appointment with the
Program Director. Students are also encouraged to speak directly to one of our
existing residents so that an honest and unbiased reflection of what our
program offers can be obtained directly from them. Please contact the Program
Assistant to obtain contact information for one of the residents from our
administrative year.

Check out the MUN Orthopedic Surgery Residency program Instagram page
"munortho" to learn about our program, our residents and our beautiful city of
St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

# Curriculum

The five-year Competence by Design program is designed to produce a "general"
orthopedic surgeon.

We have one mandatory rural rotation of three months duration in PGY 3. This
is done in Gander, NL; Corner Brook, NL; Saint John, NB; or at another
community hospital site approved by PGME and the program director.

A three month elective is scheduled in PGY 4 and residents are encouraged to
travel for this time exposing themselves to areas of interest.

# PGY 1

**Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location/Notes**  
---|---|---  
 Adult Orthopedic Surgery |  20 weeks (5 blocks) |  Health Sciences Centre  
St. Clare's Mercy Hospital  
 Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery |  8 weeks (2 blocks) |  Janeway Children's Health and Rehabilitation Centre  
Night Float | 4 weeks (1 block) | Health Sciences Centre  
St. Clare's Mercy Hospital  
 Emergency Medicine | 4 weeks (1 block) |  Health Sciences Centre  
St. Clare's Mercy Hospital  
General Surgery | 4 weeks (1 block) |  Health Sciences Centre  
(Acute Care Service Team)  
Vascular Surgery | 4 weeks (1 block) | St. Clare's Mercy Hospital  
Radiology | 4 weeks (1 block) | Health Sciences Centre  
Internal Medicine |  4 weeks (1 block) | St. Clare's Mercy Hospital  
  
# PGY 2

**Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location/Notes**  
---|---|---  
 Adult Orthopaedic Surgery |  28 weeks (7 blocks) |  Health Sciences Centre  
St. Clare's Mercy Hospital  
 Neurosurgery |   12 weeks (3 blocks) | Health Sciences Centre  
ICU |  8 weeks (2 blocks) | Health Sciences Centre  
Night Float |  4 weeks (1 block) | Health Sciences Centre  
St. Clare's Mercy Hospital  
  
# PGY 3

**Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location/Notes**  
---|---|---  
Adult Orthopaedic Surgery |  28 weeks (7 blocks) |  Health Sciences Centre  
St. Clare's Mercy Hospital  
Community Orthopaedic Surgery |  12 weeks (3 blocks) |   At an approved site in NL  
 Plastic Surgery |  8 weeks (2 blocks) |   Health Sciences Centre  
Night Float |  4 weeks (1 block) |  Health Science Centre  
St. Clare's Mercy Hospital  
  
# PGY 4

**Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location/Notes**  
---|---|---  
 Adult Orthopedic Surgery |  24 weeks (6 blocks) |  Health Sciences Centre  
St. Clare's Mercy Hospital  
Subspecialty Elective |   12 weeks (3 blocks) | At an approved site.  
 Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery |  12 weeks (3 blocks) |   Janeway Children's Health and   
Rehabilitation Centre  
Night Float |  4 weeks (1 block) |  Health Sciences Centre  
St. Clare's Mercy Hospital  
  
# PGY 5

## Chief Resident Year

**Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location/Notes**  
---|---|---  
Adult Orthopedic Surgery |  36 weeks (9 blocks) |  Health Sciences Centre  
St. Clare's Mercy Hospital  
Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery |  12 weeks (3 blocks) |  Janeway Children's Health and   
Rehabilitation Centre  
Night Float |  4 weeks (1 block) |  Health Sciences Centre  
St. Clare's Mercy Hospital  
  
# Research

Residents are expected to actively participate in Resident Research Day every
second year with completion of research scholarly activity in accordance with
the Royal College's CBD curriculum for orthopedic surgery.

Opportunity exists for residents to be involved in independent local research
or in some of the multi-centre trials that our centre becomes involved in.
Resources exist to support the residents in their endeavors, including an
orthopedic research director, an orthopedic research nurse and access to
experts in biostatistics and clinical epidemiology within the Faculty of
Medicine at Memorial. In addition, projects have been completed in association
with the biomechanical lab at the Faculty of Engineering, with our local 3D
printing capabilities and through our close relationship with Team Broken
Earth and its educational mandate in developing countries.

A resident may also complete a Masters in Clinical Epidemiology while at
Memorial. Allowances can be made to help facilitate a student in completing
this program during their 5 year residency, provided it is not felt to be a
detriment to their orthopedic surgery training.

# Seminars

There are weekly rounds as listed below:

  * Tuesday AM Fracture Rounds - All staff, residents and clerks attend
  * Thursday AM Grand Rounds - Mandatory for all orthopedic residents with supervision by faculty
  * Thursday PM Anatomy Rounds (Fall months) - Mandatory for all residents and one supervising staff person
  * Friday AM Resident Case Rounds - lead by senior residents and supervised by faculty
  * Friday AM Pediatric Rounds - Mandatory for all residents and pediatric orthopedic surgeons 

In addition to weekly rounds, there are monthly journal clubs, normally held
on Wednesday evenings.



* * *

# Training Sites

# Resources

The primary teaching hospitals involved are: St. Clare's Mercy Hospital
(SCMH), the Health Sciences Centre (HSC) and the Janeway Children's Health and
Rehabilitation Centre (JCH).

Regional hospitals available for community orthopedic experiences include:
James Paton Memorial Hospital, Gander, NL, Western Memorial Regional Hospital,
Corner Brook, NL and Saint John, NB.

There is a resident room with digital access dedicated to orthopedic resident
use at St. Clare's Mercy Hospital. At the combined Health Science Centre and
Janeway site is the medical school library with multiple workstations.
Wireless internet access is available at all city hospital sites. A number of
digital references have been purchased by the program for resident use.

There is one three-month elective period in the PGY 4 which can be used for
experiences at the choice of the resident with approval of the program.

There are between 13-15 residents and 16 faculty covering all subspecialties
of orthopedic surgery.  Regular interaction occurs between staff and
residents. Additional faculty for other disciplines (plastic surgery,
radiology, neurosurgery and surgeons at rural sites) are also involved in
teaching and resident supervision.

There are approximately 30 inpatient beds at each adult institution with
usually three residents per site. There are usually less than 10 pediatric
inpatients with 1-2 residents on site.

The residents work in all subspecialties of orthopedics. Due to its size, our
program follows a more longitudinal model than that seen at other centres,
with mixed subspecialty experiences occurring concurrently rather than in
isolated blocks. This allows for constant exposure and prevents skills and
knowledge from growing stale. Staff fellowship training includes: Trauma,
Arthroplasty, Hand & Wrist, Upper Extremity, Spine, Orthopedic Oncology,
Pediatrics, Foot and Ankle and Sports Medicine

* * *

# Additional Information

OSCE-type examinations are carried out twice a year: one testing medical
expert capabilities and the second focused on the intrinsic CanMEDS roles.

All residents also write the annual Orthopedic In-Training Exam (American).

In addition, all residents in surgical residency programs must participate in
the Surgical Foundations Program curriculum in tandem with their home program.
SF is a national program administered by the Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Canada. It is a mandatory program for all surgical residents in
Canada (general, ortho, vascular, plastics, neuro, obs/gyn, cardiac, urology).
It encompasses the foundational knowledge that is common to all surgeons and
completion of the program is mandatory before the Royal College will allow you
to sit for your final licensure examinations. The typical length of completion
of the program should be approximately 18 months.  
  
Here at Memorial University, we typically have 10 surgical residents per year.
These 10 are usually comprised of four (4) residents studying General Surgery,
four (4) studying Obstetrics and Gynecology and two (2) studying Orthopedics.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26936?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26936