#  McMaster University - General Surgery - Niagara  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Ilun Yang  

Address Juravinski Hospital and Cancer Centre  
711 Concession St. - B3/166A  
Hamilton, ON, Ontario, L8V 1C3  

Work  (905) 521-2100 x73932

Fax  (905) 528-9388

Websites of Interest [ Niagara Regional Health System
](http://www.niagarahealth.on.ca)  
[ McMaster Department of Surgery- Niagara
](https://surgery.mcmaster.ca/divisions/general-surgery/education/general-
surgery-niagara)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Ryan Fielding

Title: Residency Educational Leader, Niagara

Email: ryan.fielding@medportal.ca

  

Name: Krista MacAulay

Title: Program Coordinator- Niagara

Email: macaulak@mcmaster.ca

  

Name: Dr. Ilun Yang

Title: Program Director, McMaster

Email: yangi@mcmaster.ca

Phone: (905) 521-2100 x76241

  

Name: Katie Niblock

Title: Program Coordinator, McMaster

Email: niblock@mcmaster.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

The Niagara General Surgery residency program is a direct entry branch of the
Primary McMaster General Surgery Program. This program offers the unique
opportunity to do the majority of clinical training in a community site while
maintaining a strong academic connection with the larger McMaster program.

The Niagara Program provides a wide range of clinical activities and
experiences within the setting of a community hospital site. The program is
home to five residents, one in each year of training, and 8 primary faculty.
Residents and faculty have the opportunity to work closely together over the
entire course of your training, leading to high levels familiarity and trust.

The Niagara Region consists of 12 distinct and vibrant communities, all
located within a short drive from one another. They range from cities, urban
in style and attitude, to towns and villages, rural and relaxed in nature,
with each offering its own unique choice of recreational and educational
opportunities. The Niagara site offers a rewarding learning atmosphere for
residents that provides exceptional healthcare services for the people of
Niagara.

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/).  It is important to review the
requirements carefully.

To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit:
<https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/>

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Custom Résumé / CV

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed.

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: Details regarding interview dates:
Interviews will be held virtually on January 23, 2025.  
  

  * Niagara Stream Interviews - January 23, 2025
  * Hamilton Stream Interviews - January 24, 2025

There will be a meet and greet with faculty and residents, from both Niagara
and Hamilton. Details will be curculated to those being interviewed closer to
the date.  
  
Notifcation/Invitations: All candidates will be notified of the specific
interview date by November 28, 2024.  
  
Niagara Campus General Sugery Program Specific Townhalls:  There will be a
program information townhall held virtually on November 7th, 2024 at 8:00pm
EST. If you would like to join us, please email Krista MacAulay
macaulak@mcmaster.ca  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Formal interviews will be granted to
candidates shortlisted after review of complete applications by the Residency
Education Committee. The Surgery Residency Office will contact candidates who
are selected for an interview via CaRMS. The interview consists of two 20
minute interviews with 1-2 surgeons and a resident. The content of the
interview includes a review of the application file and an invitation to the
applicant to demonstrate coherent interest in surgery as a subject and
McMaster University in particular.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The Niagara General Surgery residency program is a direct entry branch of the
Primary McMaster General Surgery Program.  This program offers the unique
opportunity to do the majority of clinical training in a community site while
maintaining a strong academic connection with the larger McMaster program.

The Niagara Program offers a wide range of clinical activities and experiences
within the setting of a community hospital site. The program is home to five
residents, one in each year of training, and 8 primary faculty. Residents and
faculty have the opportunity to work closely over the entire course of
training, leading to high levels familiarity and trust.

The Niagara Region consists of 12 distinct and vibrant communities, all
located within a short drive from one another. They range from cities, urban
in style and attitude, to towns and villages, rural and relaxed in nature,
with each offering its own unique choice of recreational and educational
opportunities. The Niagara site offers a rewarding learning atmosphere for
residents that provides exceptional healthcare services for the people of
Niagara.

## Program goals

## **Program goals**

The goal of the Niagara General Surgery Program is to train residents for
competent and confident individual practice after graduation.  We aim to
prepare residents for their own desired career goals, whether that be
community surgery, fellowship, academic medicine, or international medicine.

**Strengths of the program include:**

  * A focus on resident learning above service needs.
  * A high volume of surgical exposure with limited learners
  * Collegial environment with naturally evolving mentorship
  * Flexibility in call scheduling, day to day activity, rotation selection and training goals
  * A compassionate culture focused on promoting resident wellness, resilience, and a work-life balance
  * Strong support for preparation of the Royal College Exam

## Selection process goals

The Niagara General Surgery Program is interested in matching a candidate who
is dedicated to the pursuit of a career in general surgery while recognizing
and fully utilizing the unique opportunities offered while training in
Niagara.

 Characteristics of a strong applicant include:

  * strong self-directed learner
  * highly motivated and organized
  * adaptable
  * honest and reliable
  * detail oriented 
  * personable
  * organized and conscientious

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team is composed of the site director,
residents of all levels and faculty members.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
The number has grown in recent years, and is expected to grow.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  
There may be some exceptions.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We evaluate the content, including research, publications, electives   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Clinical evaluations (In particular those from Surgical rotations or electives)   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering (medical and non-medical) and mentoring   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Participation in teaching, clubs, or organizations   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstrated interpersonal skills   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in discipline and knowledge of program location   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interaction with colleagues and patients   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in participating in future research projects   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted canidates opportunities
to arrange and complete electives and we would liek to reassure you that a
lack of elective activity this year will not negatively impact you application
to our program.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  Each candidate completes two interview stations during this process
virtually.  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high-quality patient care through working in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Behavior, attitude, ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak and write in English   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrated understanding of the importance of health advocacy in General Surgery   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated ability to develop within the role of a General Surgeon   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest in living in a community setting   
Leadership skills |  Involvement in the continuous development and improvement of medical care   
Professionalism |  Correspondence with staff and residents   
Scholarly activities |  we do not evaluate this component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

General surgery is now a competency by design program, and as such, residents
will proceed through the stages of training as outlined by the Royal College
of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. Progress is measured with work based
assessments and rotation evaluations.  Promotion is determined by the
Competency Committee, made up of Surgical and non-surgical faculty with
resident representation. Estimated length of training is 5 years, subject to
average progress through CBD.

All candidates at the completion of the Surgical Foundations Program will be
regarded as eligible to take the Principles of Surgery Examination which for
general surgery must be successfully completed prior to applying to sit for
the final examination.

**Research**  
All residents are expected to complete a minimum of two quality research
projects over the five year program for presentation at an annual research
day. Guidance for this will start in the Surgical Foundations Program and
continue with meetings with the Department of Surgery Research Director, Dr.
E. Parvez, as well as Departmental research staff who are available to
residents.

In Niagara there are several research opportunities.  Local endeavours have
included an RCT, metanalysis and numerous quality improvement projects. With
the aid of Seddiq Weera, NRC Research Coordinator, there is opportunity to
design and carry out research which you find most engaging.  Additionally,
Niagara residents maintain all the research support and faculty connections
available in Hamilton.

**Seminars**  

Academic half-day is a weekly session protected from service demands. Junior
residents will attend Surgical Foundations during this time.

Specific training in Minimal Access Surgery is available in courses for junior
residents and another course in 3rd year for senior residents.

Residents take the Advanced Trauma Life Support (ATLS) course in their 1st
year of training and the Advanced Trauma Operative Management (ATOM) course at
the beginning of their 5th year.

**PGY -1**

1 Block Rookie Camp in July

8 Blocks of General Surgery in Niagara

2 Blocks of Pediatric Surgery at McMaster Children's Hospital

1 Block of Internal Medicine in Niagara

1 Block of Selective (ER or Internal Medicine) in Niagara



**PGY - 2**  
  

3 Blocks of ICU in Niagara

3 Blocks of Endoscopy in Niagara

5 Blocks of General Surgery in Niagara

2 Blocks of General Surgery/Trauma at Hamilton General Surgery

**PGY3/4**

Variable blocks of General Surgery with elective time and exposure to
subspecialty rotations. Residents will have the opportunity to design a
rotation schedule with REL to best achieve career goals. Rotations may include
Vascular surgery, ENT, Thoracic Surgery, Urology, Research, HPB, Colorectal or
alternate community sites.



**PGY4/5**

14 Blocks of 'Chief Residency' starting in Block 11 of PGY4. Rotations are 3-4
blocks each and are chosen based on learning needs/career goals. Rotations are
divided between Niagara and Hamilton. Includes 1 block of study time for
written component of RCPSC Certification Exam.

2 Blocks of 'Transition to Practice'. Clinical activities assigned that
supports needs for entering practice or preparing for fellowship. Includes
time to prepare for RCPSC Applied (oral) exam.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Niagara**

The St. Catharines General Hospital is the main teaching site for the Niagara
campus. This beautiful hospital opened in 2013.  It is a mid to large size
community hospital offering a wide scope of practice to the general surgeons,
with support from services such as Interventional radiology, vascular surgery
and intensive care. Welland Hospital and Greater Niagara Hospital are smaller
sites within the Niagara Health system which offer further opportunities for
residents and medical learners.

In Hamilton, the McMaster site, Hamilton Health Sciences is a centre for the
Children's Hospital and pediatric surgery as well as pediatric trauma.

The General site, Hamilton Health Sciences is the location of the Adult Trauma
Centre, cardiovascular surgery, and the largest combined ICU in the region.

The Juravinski site of the Hamilton Health Sciences is the location at which
oncology and general surgery occur and is affiliated with the Regional Cancer
Centre.

St. Joseph's Hospital is a busy hospital for general surgery with a special
interest in minimal access surgery and is the Centre for Minimal Access
Surgery (CMAS). Subspecialty services such as head and neck, thoracic and
urological surgery are located at St. Joseph's Hospital.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27369?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27369