#  University of Ottawa - Family Medicine - Rural Winchester  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream including MOTP/MMTP for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 5 click here

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Sohil Rangwala  

Address Family Medicine  
600 Peter Morand  
Ottawa, Ontario, K1N 5C8  

Work

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Winchester District Memorial Hospital
](http://www.wdmh.on.ca )  
[ Family Medicine Program ](http://www.familymedicine.uottawa.ca)  
[ video ](https://youtu.be/zKwUQ7pFCBc)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Adam Jones Delcorde

Title: Winchester Program DIrector

  

Name: Kim Rozon

Title: Postgraduate Program Manager

Email: krozon@uottawa.ca

Phone: 6132201905

  

* * *

# Important Information



#  FMProC

  * All applicants (CMG and IMGs) to ALL Canadian Family Medicine Programs, in the 1st and 2nd rounds of the CaRMS cycle, **are required to sit an online Situational Judgement Test (SJT)** , called “FMProC” (Family Medicine Professional Choices).
  * This will help us better assess 4 selected attributes in our applicants that are critically important to being a Family Physician: Professional Integrity, Adaptability, Team Collaboration, and Empathy/Compassion.
  * There are two different test windows:

  1. The test window for 1st round CaRMS is open from October 28th , 2024, 8AM ET to November 11th, 2024 8AM ET.
  2. The test window for 2nd round CaRMS is open from February 27th 10AM ET 2025 to March 12th , 2025, 10AM ET

  * Registration window for first round: **Registration opens September 11th at 12 noon ET and closes on November 7th at 10AM ET.** If you register before October 23rd, 2024, you will receive the test link on or before October 28th , which can be accessed once the test window opens. If you register after October 23rd, you will receive the test link within two business days.
  * Registration window for the second round opens February 25th at 12 noon ET and closes March 10th at 12 noon ET. Once you register, you will receive a test link within two business days

**FOR MORE INFORMATION**  

English Info:
<https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/sites/default/files/teams/128/FMProC/FMProC_CProMF%202025_Information_V2.0%2024-07-25%20ENG%20Clean.pdf>

English FAQ:
<https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/sites/default/files/teams/128/FMProC/FMProC_CProMF%202025_FAQs.pdf>



French Info:
<https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/sites/default/files/teams/128/FMProC/FMProC-
Information%202024%202nd%20round%20FR%20V1.0%2024-07-29%20FR.pdf>

French FAQ:
<https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/sites/default/files/teams/128/FMProC/FMProC%202024_FAQs_V1%2024-07-29%20%20FR.pdf>



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

The University of Ottawa, Family Medicine Program has 6 streams in which a
candidate can apply.  If a candidate chooses to apply to more than one stream
only one personal letter is required.  It is recommended to mention in the
letter to which streams you are applying to and the reasons for this.  If you
are applying to our bilingual stream (Montfort) we do not require you to
translate any documentation.  We recommend that you write your letter with
certain paragraphs in English and some in French.  PLEASE NOTE IT IS NOT A
REQUIREMENT TO BE BILINGUAL TO BE A SUCCESSFUL CANDIDATE IN OTTAWA, only if
you apply to the bilingual program (Montfort).

All candidates must meet the Ontario criteria of eligibility.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  * Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  * Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  * Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  * Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Examinations

Required

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Family Medicine Programs have adopted the Canadian Family Medicine _Structured
Reference Letter_. Any FM program requesting a reference will require this
form. Traditional narrative letters will NOT be accepted.  Once requested by
the applicant via the CaRMS platform, the referee should be automatically
directed to complete the form.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

Your autobiographical letter should answer the following questions (1000 words
or less). -

 **“Why have you chosen family medicine as a career?”**

Your answer should:

* Justify why your training or life experience has prepared you to become a Family Physician

* Explain how significant life events or experiences are linked to your choice of this specialty

* Provide insight into how do you see family medicine's role in the delivery of the health care in Ontario

** **

**  “What personal attributes do you possess that will support you in this
career?”**

** **  
---  
  


**“Why are you interested, specifically, in the uOttawa Family Medicine
program?”  **



If you have a special interest in family medicine such as obstetrics,
palliative medicine, geriatrics, sports medicine, Emergency Medicine, Global
health, etc please let us know.

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 28, 2025
  * January 29, 2025
  * January 30, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews for short-listed candidates are
mandatory.  Only one interview is required regardless if a candidate applies
to more than one stream in the Family Medicine Ottawa program. Following
review of the CaRMS application, personal letter and reference letters, **ONLY
short-listed candidates will be INVITED for an interview via email.** There
will be three interview dates (January 28, 29 and 30th).  For those who will
be offered an interview, you will be invited to virtual information sessions
to know more about our program and sites.  This session will allow you an
opportunity to interact with our current residents, faculty, adminsitrative
staff and program director.  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: For those applying to more than one
stream within the Family Medicine residency program at the University of
Ottawa, only one interview will be scheduled.  Scores from your interview will
be shared with each stream.  
  
Interviews will be 20 to 25 minutes with an opportunity to ask questions at
the end.  The interview will be conducted by a preceptor and a current family
medicine resident.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We review and select applicants based on the submitted package.  Only
candidates who submit complete applications will be considered for file
review.

We select candidates on the basis of a solid academic record, excellent
reference letters, strong interpersonal skills, and extracurricular success. A
strong interest in Family Medicine and the University of Ottawa must be
evident. All applications will be evaluated, and interviews will be offered
based on this evaluation.

## Program goals

Our program trains residents to allow for independent practice anywhere in
Canada.

To care for patients across the full lifespan,

To allow for independent practice anywhere in Canada,

To understand and demonstrate Quality Improvement and primary care research
skills,

To train according to the CanMeds Family Medicine Principles

We reflect the needs of Canadian society in our training program. This
includes accountability to all members of society and appropriate resource
utilization

To demonstrate professionalism and empathy at all times, using effective
communication skills

To ensure a work/life balance centered in wellness

To ensure residents meet the evaluative criteria of the program

## Selection process goals

The successful candidate, through a multi-faceted assessment process
(including file review and interview process), will be assessed as meeting the
threshold criteria established by our program goals. The ultimate goal will be
to ensure that the residents selected will be able to work collaboratively
with peers, staff, and patients and eventually provide excellent primary care
to all Canadians in all jurisdictions

## File review process

Review team composition : A team of 15-30 active family medicine preceptors
will be reviewing all application files

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 601 +  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Balance of medicine and non-medicine activities, research, community involvement and accomplishments   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  See elective criteria below   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  FM ProC   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteer activities, and personal achievement are considered in the file review process   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Degree of advocacy and organisational management skills will be particularity noted   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  MSPRs are considered during the file review process   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Life experience related to family medicine; understanding the role of the Family Physician in care   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  We evaluate if and how the applicant achieves components of the CanMEDS framework and their ranking   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  The quality of research projects/publications and the role the applicant played in the project   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We evaluate transcripts for academic performance and standing   
Other file component(s) |  Not applicable   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We encourage applicants to have completed at least one elective in our
discipline, however, the program is aware that this might not be possible.  We
examine the type of electives for equivalency to family medicine experiences.

The University believes that the best residents are those who have been able
to explore the breadth of the medical profession through a variety of
electives while enrolled in medical school.  

It is not a requirement that candidates have completed an elective within our
home program.



## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We evaluate the applicant’s ability to work in a team environment through their past experiences   
Collegiality |  We evaluate the applicant’s ability to foster collegial relationships through their past experiences   
Communication skills |  Ability to communicate during interviews; the ability to speak and answer questions in a clear and organised manner   
Health advocacy |  This component is specifically addressed in the interview process   
Interest in the discipline |  We evaluate the applicant’s knowledge of and passion for Family Medicine   
Interest in the program |  We evaluate the applicant’s knowledge of and interest in the Ottawa program   
Leadership skills |  We evaluate the applicant’s demonstrated leadership ability through their past leadership roles   
Professionalism |  The applicant’s professionalism during the interview and as demonstrated in their past experiences   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Other interview component(s) |  Not applicable   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Winchester Residency Program is offered in conjunction with the
[Winchester District Memorial Hospital (WDMH)](http://www.wdmh.on.ca/). Our
team of physicians and staff work with residents to support your learning
needs. We offer:

  * Updated 24/7 emergency services, acute care, obstetrical in-patient services, urology, newborn care, cardiology, and general surgery;
  * A state-of-the-art diagnostic imaging unit, which includes a CT scanner, ultrasound, and digital mammography;
  * A laboratory, diagnostic imaging, and pharmacy services support our clinical programs; and,
  * We are a partner in several regional programs, including operating as a key site for cancer care (breast cancer screening, surgery, and chemotherapy); chronic kidney disease (dialysis); and other specialty clinics.

  **Teaching & Learning Opportunities**

 WDMH offers a two year horizontally integrated rural family medicine
curriculum. We focus on developing the skills and competencies you will need
to meet the full scope of practice that family physicians deliver in rural and
remote communities. Our family medicine residents are usually the only
residents in the hospital, so you will receive a significant amount of one-on-
one attention.

 Your family medicine experience will include both hospital inpatient care and
family medicine clinics. You will have exposure to emergency medicine,
geriatrics (home visits and nursing home visits), internal medicine,
cardiology, outpatient clinics, newborn care, and obstetrics. Our maternity
team includes obstetricians, family doctors, midwives, and nurses. Your
pediatrics experience will be supplemented with periodic shifts in the
emergency department at the[ Children’s Hospital of Eastern Ontario
(CHEO)](http://www.cheo.on.ca/), and you will have the opportunity to care for
Indigenous patients in Akwesasne, a reserve outside of Cornwall.

 WDMH owns four high-fidelity resuscitation manikins for practicing emergency
procedures. This includes two adult models for ACLS and two pediatric models
for PALS and NRP. The hospital runs ACLS and NRP courses in-house, and we try
to incorporate simulation into our local academic day when feasible. Our site
also recently piloted a new point-of-care ultrasound (POCUS) training program
for family medicine residents. Three handheld units (Butterfly IQ+) are shared
among the residents for practice and use when are seeing patients.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The residency program is for 2 years. This length of training does not exceed
the Royal College or College of Family Physicians of Canada standard.

 The first year of our curriculum is horizontally integrated with Family
Medicine always at the centre of your clinical experience. Most residents will
spend 3-5 days per week with their family medicine preceptor. You will see
inpatients with your preceptor during hospitalist rounds, and you will join
them when they do home visits or attend a nursing home. Once or twice per
month, you will join an obstetrician/gynecologist in clinic, and you will join
the maternity team whenever one of your patients is labor. You will be on call
for hospital inpatients at least one weekend per month, and you will complete
of a minimum of 15 shifts in the emergency department.

 The second-year curriculum is structured similarly, but with more emphasis on
Internal Medicine. Family Medicine remains at the centre of your experience
with 3-5 days per week with your preceptor. Once or twice per month, you will
see patients with a cardiologist and join a general internist in a rapid-
access clinic. You will also complete a two-week rotation in psychiatry at the
Ottawa Hospital, which includes both inpatient care and emergency department
consultations. You will once again be on call for hospital inpatients at least
one weekend per month, and you will complete another 15 shifts in our
emergency department.



ACADEMIC DAYS

Winchester residents participate in the University of Ottawa’s department-wide
academic full days. Once a month, residents are expected to return to Ottawa
for these mandatory sessions.

 Our site also runs a monthly academic half- or full day in Winchester, which
focuses on topics of specific interest to our residents. In the past, we have
focussed on the 105 Topics, POCUS, simulation, behavioral medicine, and
practice management. Occasionally, our residents have invited speakers from
Ottawa, and the Office of Medical and Academic Affairs has provided financial
and logistical support to help organize the event.





 **Patient Population**

 Our patient population includes residents from local communities within the
broader areas of Dundas, Stormont, Glengarry, and Russell Townships. We also
draw on Ottawa South’s growing population. Servicing 3300 square kilometres,
we have a patient volume of approximately 96,000 people per year.





  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

Winchester District Memorial Hospital

WDMH is a newly built facility with an annual operating budget of $30.7
million and is governed by a seventeen-member Hospital Board. Currently, it
has an estimated catchment population of 94,000 and referral population of
27,000 and growing. It maintains sixty-three beds: forty-six devoted to acute
care and seventeen for rehabilitation and complex continuing care. In all,
WDMH employs over 300 staff members, including about 140 nurses, 5 midwives,
40 family physicians, 5 general surgeons, 3 internists, and handful of local
and visiting specialists. Clinical services include:

  * 24/7 Emergency Care
  * Ambulatory Care
  * Chemotherapy
  * Complex Continuing Care
  * General Surgery
  * Hemodialysis
  * Urology
  * Internal Medicine
  * Diagnostic Imaging (including X-ray, CT, and ultrasound)
  * Physiotherapy
  * Ontario Breast Screening Program
  * Diabetes Education
  * Laboratory
  * Obstetrics/Gynecology

Most of our preceptors work in the hospital in addition to a Family Medicine
clinic. Residents are attached to a community preceptor's practice in an
integrated curriculum format that allow residents to create opportunities for
continuity of care to follow their own patients in the clinic on a more
regular basis and can follow those patients in and out of inpatient setting.
Two of our Family Medicine clinics are in Winchester very to close to the
hospital, and two clinics are in Morrisburg/Ingleside about 20-30 minutes
away.

* * *

# Additional Information

Applications may be submitted in either English or French.  If you are
applying to more than one stream you may submit only ONE PERSONAL LETTER with
a statement identifying which other streams you are applying to and the
reasons.  Reference letters will be accepted in both languages.  Please note
that all selected candidates must be able to communicate effectively in
English (oral and written).

Communication Preference

Our preferred manner of communicating with all applicants is via email.

Please note that in our program it is important that residents have an
independent means of transportation to get from their Family Medicine
placement to their rotation training sites and to rural practices.  **Public
transportation will not be sufficient. All staff are expected to be within
45-60 min of the hospital when on call.**

Enhanced Skills training/PGY 3 opportunities

Our program offers a number of training opportunities beyond the 2 years of
residency. We offer PGY-3 training in leading to a certificate of added
competence issued by the College of Family Physicians of Canada for Emergency
Medicine, Family Practice Anaesthesia, Care of the Elderly, Palliative
Medicine, Addictions Medicine, and Sports and Exercise Medicine.  We also
offer opportunities for PGY3 training in Maternity Care, Global Health,
Hospitalist, Women's Health and GP Oncology

* * *

# FAQ

  * If I apply to several streams within the Family Medicine Ottawa programs will I be expected to have more than one interview?  No, only one interview will be conducted and your overall application and interview score will be applied to the other streams.
  * If I apply to more than one program do I need to write a different Personal Letter?  No, we highly suggest to indicate your interest in more than one program within your letter and state the reasons.  If you are applying to the francophone program, you should write certain paragraphs in English and in French.
  * Can a letter of recommendation completed in French?  Yes, they may be in English or French.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26770?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26770