#  Memorial University of Newfoundland - Internal Medicine - St. John's  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on October 24, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 14

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Paul Boland  

Address Health Sciences Centre  
300 Prince Philip Drive  
St. John's, NL , Newfoundland and Labrador, A1B 3V6  

Work  (709) 864 2892

Work  (709) 864 4961

Websites of Interest [ Internal Medicine Website
](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/discmedicine/programs/internal-medicine-
program/)  
[ A Day in the Life of an Internal Medicine Resident
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WeS2zwnxFos)  
[ PGME Admission Requirements ](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/pgme/prospective-
learners/admission-requirements/)  
[ General Application Process ](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/pgme/prospective-
learners/application-process/general-process/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Ian MacPherson

Title: Program Director

Email: i.macpherson@mun.ca

  

Name: Dr. Paul Boland

Title: Assistant Program Director

Email: paul.boland@med.mun.ca

  

Name: Ms. Jill Colbourne

Title: Academic Program Administrator

Email: jill.colbourne@mun.ca

Phone: 709-864-2892

  

Name: Ms. Stephanie Hunt

Title: Academic Program Assistant

Email: shunt13@mun.ca

Phone: 709-864-4961

  

* * *

# Important Information

The Internal Medicine Program has received full accreditation status from the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.



Please review Memorial University's [Provincial
Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/) and admission requirements for postgraduate medical education.



**Orientation**

Applicants who match to Memorial University must attend orientation during the
last week of June. Details will be provided in March 2025.

* * *

# Return of Service

CMGs/USMGs:

No return of service (RoS) is required for CMG seats in the first iteration.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Please refer to Supporting Documents for specific information on required
documentation.

Applications submitted after the deadline will not be considered.



* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Exemption to English language proficiency testing**

  * If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States where English is the language of instruction, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.  
    * **If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States which provides training in multiple language streams, please self-identify which stream you graduated from, e.g. English-Stream, French-Stream, Spanish-Stream, etc.**

**Who is required to provide English Language Proficiency?**

  * If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States where the language of instruction is not in English (e.g. French) you are required to provide proof of proficiency in the English language. It is important to note that this requirement extends to all such applicants, regardless of whether other secondary/post-secondary education took place in English and regardless of citizenship.

The accepted English language proficiency exams, and the required scores, are
as follows:

  * International English Language Testing System - Academic (IELTS-Academic), with a minimum score of **7**  in each of the components in the same sitting;
  * Occupational English Test - Medicine (OET-Medicine), with a minimum grade of **B**  in each of the four subsets in the same sitting;
  * Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program Test - General (CELPIP-General), with a minimum score of **9**  in each of the four skills in the same sitting.

Exams must be dated within 24 months of the residency start date (July 1).
Results must be available by the CaRMS document review deadline.

Examinations

Optional - will be reviewed

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If applicable.



Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three reference letters are required from staff who can comment on the
candidate's medical knowledge, professionalism, collegiality, and clinical,
problem solving, and communication skills. If more than three references are
submitted, they will not be read. References from senior residents will not be
accepted.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

A personal letter is required from each applicant. The letter should outline
why the applicant is interested in the program and Internal Medicine, personal
strengths, extra-curricular activities including research and ultimate career
goals.

Custom Résumé / CV

Memorial Declaration for Interruptions

ALL applicants must submit the [Declaration of Interruptions
](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/pgme/current-learners/forms/)form with their
application (form is located under **Other**).

Consent for disclosure

ALL applicants must submit the [Consent to
Disclose](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/pgme/current-learners/forms/) form with
their application (form is located under **Other**).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

If available.

Students applying in their last year of medical school will need to provide
proof of their MD to the CPSNL prior to the program start.

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

Please provide if available.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held on Thursday,
January 23 and Friday, January 24, 2025. Interviews will be conducted
virtually and as such there will be a degree of flexibility to accommodate
time zone differences. Only applicants who are selected for an interview will
be contacted via email. **All interview times will be listed on the scheduling
site in Newfoundland Standard Time.**  
  
Offers to interview will be sent on Friday, January 10, 2025 via CaRMS. Core
Internal Medicine programs across the country use an external website for
booking interviews. This system will open for viewing on Friday, January 10,
2025 at 2pm EST and you will receive an email with a login and password. This
will allow you to plan your interview schedule. The system will officially
open to book interviews on Monday, January 13, 2025 at 12pm EST.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews are conducted by either
two faculty members or a faculty member and a resident.  Pending availability,
there will be a presentation by the chief residents outlining the program and
you will be given the opportunity to ask any questions.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

All applications are reviewed by the Selection Subcommittee of the Residency
Program Committee for Internal Medicine. We are looking for candidates with a
strong academic record which demonstrates proficiency in areas relating to
Internal Medicine, sincere interest in the specialty of Internal Medicine, as
well as interest in Memorial University. We encourage applicants to have
completed electives in Internal Medicine. We seek references attesting to the
applicant's clinical abilities, non-medical expert and personal qualities as
well as an interest in Internal Medicine. Applicant interviews and personal
letters are used to identify candidates with strong interpersonal skills, and
interest in and commitment to, a career in Internal Medicine and training at
Memorial University.

Applicants must fulfill University and Provincial regulations (which are
available on CaRMS website).

## Program goals

The overarching goal of the Memorial University Internal Medicine Residency
Training program is to train exceptionally competent and professional
Internists that will excel in their chosen field. We aim to train highly
skilled physicians who are leaders in their communities of practice. We seek
to provide residents with a rich learning environment to inspire innovation
and personal and professional growth. We aim to prepare all our residents for
any fellowship program or subspecialty that they choose as a future career
path.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               

## Selection process goals

We aim to select those who are:

  1. We highly value candidates who are both professional in all interactions and situations and collegial towards others.
  2. We value candidates who demonstrate an interest in the field of internal medicine.
  3. We value candidates who demonstrate competence in the non-medical expert CanMeds roles of communications, collaboration, leadership, health advocacy, scholarship and professionalism. 
  4. We are looking for candidates that are hardworking, interested in broad clinical experiences and want to further develop their clinical reasoning skills.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  

## File review process

Review team composition : Review team composition: Our review team consists of
senior residents and faculty members.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 601 +  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Interest in IM, CanMeds related skills (communication, teamwork, leadership) and organization   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Demonstrated interest in Internal Medicine   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of non-medical interests to support resilience   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of leadership skills and experience   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  No professionalism issues; past performance   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Clear depiction of why you want to be an internist, train at Memorial and are a good fit for the program   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Seeking evidence of professionalism, knowledge, skills, and attitudes suited to Memorial IM   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Demonstrates interest in research participation   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance to date   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed elective(s)
in our discipline. We recognize and value that applicants may have a range of
clinical experiences with electives in other disciplines.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Works well as a member of the team with colleagues, students and allied health professionals   
Collegiality |  Demonstrates cooperation and enthusiasm for working with others   
Communication skills |  Able to speak and write in English, able to listen effectively even in stressful situations   
Health advocacy |  We do not evaluate this file component   
Interest in the discipline |  Clearly articulate why you want to be an internist   
Interest in the program |  Clearly articulate why you would want to train at Memorial   
Leadership skills |  History of leadership roles in medical setting; able to identify why leadership in IM is important   
Professionalism |  Able to express why professionalism is a vital intrinsic CanMEDS role, evidence of same   
Scholarly activities |  Previous projects/awards, plans for the future.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Academic Teaching  **

  * PGY 1 Bootcamp in early July - simulation and case-based teaching in preparation for transition to residency.
  * Dedicated PGY1 academic half day from July - December. Provides junior residents with opportunities to achieve EPAs, review care for urgent/emergent situations, transition to discipline. 
  * PGY2/3 academic half day: formal curriculum meeting the objectives in training for Internal Medicine
  * Robust simulation curriculum (high and low fidelity workshops)
  * Resident research curriculum
  * Point of care ultrasound (PoCUS) curriculum
  * OSCEs x 1/year for PGY-1 & 2, x 2/yr for PGY-3
  * Morning report, ECG rounds, Infectious Disease rounds, evidence based medicine rounds, quality improvement and safety rounds, noon rounds, weekly Medicine Grand Rounds.

**Royal College Exam Preparation:**

  * Our PGY3's are provided with extra protected time for Royal College exam preparation January-June of their exam year. 
  * There is a formal curriculum of OSCE practice, and opportunity to study with/receive coaching feedback from a faculty member from each sub specialty
  * Additional one hour sessions of senior resident teaching are provided before the start of the usual PGY2/3 half day 
  * Dedicated study week.

**Masters in Clinical Epidemiology**

Our program offers the ability to complete a Masters in Clinical Epidemiology
while working as an Internal Medicine resident.  The residents are given
protected time for lectures.  There is also an option for a Diploma in
Clinical Epidemiology.

**Certificate in Medical Education**

Our program offers the ability to complete a certificate in Medical Education
while working as an Internal Medicine resident. The residents are given
protected time for lectures.

**Program QI**

The program in Internal Medicine is constantly evaluating and striving to
improve residents' educational experience.  Residents play a large role in the
ongoing of improvement through regular feedback and evaluation. Feedback
sessions with the program director and residents are held during every block
to ensure timely, clear communication of resident issues directly to the
program director in a town hall format.

**Quick Facts**

**-** We moved to a Competence By Design curriculum in 2019. We use a
dedicated MUNCAT app for EPA completion. Regular clinical coaching is provided
to our residents.

\- There is opportunity for international electives

\- The ratio of faculty to residents is 3:1

\- Average patient load is variable - an estimate would be 5-10 patients per
resident

\- Annual resident wellness retreat (normally held in the fall)

\- Annual resident social hosted by the program director

\- Wellness committee

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 3 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Curriculum**  
---  
  |  The Memorial University program in Internal Medicine transitioned to a Competence By Design (CBD) curriculum in July 2019. Our residents engage in EPA completion using our MUNCAT app. They receive guidance from an academic advisor, and have regular performance reviews by the competence committee. Each academic advisor advises 3-4 residents.  Competence By Design will not substantially alter the duration of training in our program.  Our scheduled training consists of 3 years of core internal medicine leading to ability for further subspecialty training or to do a core PGY-IV year of Internal Medicine training. The program's objectives are based on the Royal College training objectives for internal medicine. The majority of resident training occurs at The Health Sciences Centre but residents will do some rotations at St. Clare's Mercy Hospital.  The residents will also do 1 block of Community Internal Medicine (rural or urban), and 3 blocks of elective experience consistent with the resident's career goals. One block of electives is offered in each of the three years. Resident also have the option of doing up to 3 blocks of research. The Internal Medicine program has approximately 40 residents and approximately 100 full-time and part-time faculty. The size of the program lends itself to a collegial and close working relationship with faculty and excellent hands-on experience. Clinical teaching units (CTUs) consist of a mix of subspecialists and general internists. Generally, each CTU consists of a senior resident, 2 PGY 1s, and 1 or 2 senior medical students.   **On Call Responsibilities** Call is delivered through a blended model with both traditional call (24 hours) and night float call (15 hour shifts). PGY 1s share a mixture of call responsibilities including the traditional 24 hour call with a maximum of 1:4 while on CTU and medicine rotations, home call on neurology and blended call on CCU. Junior residents are always supported by in-house senior residents on call. PGY 2s and 3s participate in call delivered through the night float call model, totaling 1 block each year.  Residents may also do some call shifts while on CTU, CCU and ICU.    
  
**PGY 1/Transition to Discipline/Foundations**  
  |  - 6 blocks - CTU \- 1 block - Jr Day Float \- 1 block - CCU \- 1 block - Neurology \- 1 block - Ambulatory Clinics \- 1 block - Elective - 2 blocks - Selectives (includes mandatory Geriatrics rotation)  
  
**PGY 2/Core Training**  
  |  \- 3 blocks - CTU junior ward resident \- 2 blocks - CCU \- 1 block - Elective prior to CaRMS application due date \- 1 block - Ambulatory General Medicine Clinics \- 2 blocks - Selectives  \- 1 block - Night Float to be dispersed throughout the year \- 2 blocks - ICU as a junior resident \- 1 block - Mandatory community experience (to be done with a St. John's internist doing community based practice or in Grand Falls-Windsor, Corner Brook, Clarenville or Carbonear - resident will decide where he/she does the rotation and will arrange well in advance). Community hospitals outside Newfoundland may be considered for this rotation; however, there is no reimbursement for travel out of province.  
  
**PGY 3/Core Training**  
  |  \- 3 blocks - CTU senior ward resident \- 1 block - Elective usually pre-CaRMS \- 1 block - Night Float to be dispersed throughout the year \- 8 blocks- One to two blocks on the different subspecialty services  
  
**PGY 4/Transition to Practice**  
  |  The resident will meet with the Program Director during the PGY 3 year to discuss rotations that will satisfy the requirements of the Royal College and as well will meet the future academic practice needs of the resident. For those residents doing a clinical 4th year, the residents will spend 2 blocks of that year as a junior consultant on a CTU, 1 block critical care, 1 block ambulatory, 1 block community medicine. The other 8 blocks are elective, as planned with the coordinator for the PGY 4 year.  
  
**Research**  
  |  All residents have mentors and are required to work on and complete a research or other scholarly project (which can be QI/QA or medical education). At the beginning of their training program, the resident will be provided with a mentor (i.e. member of the faculty), who will encourage and help guide the research interest of the resident. Each academic year, there is a Research/Scholarship Day.  Further funding may be available should research be accepted at a national/international conference.  Monetary prizes are also awarded.  There is a scholarship curriculum embedded in the medicine half day schedule including critical appraisal. A Master's Degree in Clinical Epidemiology is also available for interested residents. This course is taught by internal medicine faculty affiliated with the Division of Clinical Epidemiology and is also popular with residents from other specialties.  
  
**Seminars & Academic Teaching **  
  |  There is a dedicated PGY 1 Bootcamp that runs during the first week in July which includes simulation, case-based sessions and didactic lectures to help with the transition to residency. Morning Report occurs 3 times weekly at the Health Sciences Centre. These rounds cover a mix of interesting cases and subspecialty topics, as well as including special topics such as Internal Medicine relevant radiology rounds. ECG rounds take place on Fridays at the Health Sciences Centre and St. Clare’s Mercy Hospital. There are also noon-time rounds every weekday except for Thursday, which includes subspecialty rounds, medical-pathological rounds, Morbidity and Mortality Rounds with Medical Grand Rounds taking place each Friday at the Health Sciences Centre and each Wednesday at St. Clare's Mercy Hospital. There is an academic half-day for PGY 1 residents that occurs on Tuesday afternoon from 2:00 pm to 5:00 pm and runs from July - December.  PGY 2 and PGY 3 residents have academic half-day each Thursday afternoon from 2:00 pm to 5:00 pm from July - December.  From January - June, PGY 1 and PGY 2s attend half day together on Thursdays from 2:00 pm to 5:00 pm.  This is protected time for the Internal Medicine residents.  A simulation teaching program is firmly established.  These sessions are both low and high fidelity.  There are multiple sessions throughout the year and are available for all residents.  There are senior medicine rounds for examination preparation and discussion of cases - protected time for PGY 2, 3 and higher. PGY3 residents have protected time to prepare for the Royal College exam from January to June of the exam year. There is also a formal curriculum for senior resident teaching that runs from September to June.  
  
**Conference Leave**  
  |  Conference leave is permitted on an annual basis. Residents are encouraged to take advantage of conference opportunities. Residents receive $3000 to be used during 3 years of training.  Residents who do a PGY 4 year are entitled to an extra $1000 funding. Teaching residents are provided with a further $1500 funding.  
  
**ASSESSMENT**  
  |  There are a number of assessments used by the Program's Competency Committee to determine resident promotion.   CBD curriculum EPAs are completed regularly (3-4/week is suggested) and are captured using the MUNCAT app. Longitudinal assessments are also completed by supervisors at the end of each rotation with narrative feedback.  We also have 360 evaluations on CTU rotations to help assess real life communication and collaborative competencies. Residents also get protected time for OSCEs. Feedback on OSCEs is immediate with guidance for future performance. All evaluations may be reviewed with the Program Director and Competency Committee.   
  
  


* * *

# Training Sites



Hospitals affiliated with the Memorial University of Newfoundland's Internal
Medicine Training Program include:

\- The Health Sciences Centre, St. John's

\- St. Clare's Mercy Hospital, St. John's

\- The Leonard A. Miller Centre, St. John's

\- Central Regional Health Care Centre, Grand Falls-Windsor

\- Dr. G. B. Cross Memorial Hospital, Clarenville

\- Carbonear General Hospital, Carbonear

\- Western Memorial Regional Hospital, Corner Brook

Residents can do community medicine rotation at any site approved by the
program director that meets the RCPSC and PGME definition for community
rotation.  



* * *

# Additional Information

A virtual information session with the Chief Residents and some current
residents will be held on Monday, October 21st at 7:00 PM **Newfoundland**
time (5:30 PM EST).  Please RSVP to jill.colbourne@mun.ca for the link.



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27330?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27330