#  McGill University - Urology - Montreal

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Regular Stream for All  

##  Last approved on December 06, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Mélanie Aubé-Peterkin  

Address c/o Urology Residency Program Office  
Royal Victoria Hospital (Glen Site)  
1001 Decarie Blvd, D05-5725  
Montreal , Quebec, H4A 3J1  

Work  (514) 934-8209

Websites of Interest [ McGill Division of Urology
](http://www.urology.mcgill.ca)  
[ McGill University, Faculty of Medicine, Postgraduate Medical Education
](http://mcgill.ca/pmge/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: Urology Residency Program

Name: Elena Bless

Title: Program Administrator

Email: urologyresidency.med@mcgill.ca

Phone: (514) 934-8209

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada: Applying competency-
based practices to residency education**

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](https://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e),
aims to enhance patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong
learning with evolving patient needs and empowering learners to more fully
engage in their education process.

CBD will use competency rather than the time framework as the basis for
progression. Residency programs will be broken down into stages, and each
stage will have a number of Entrustable Professional Activities (EPAs). Each
resident is required to achieve competency in these EPAs before passing to the
next stage.   Each EPA is composed of individual milestones based on required
competency. These milestones will create more targeted learning outcomes and
involve more frequent, formative assessments within the clinical workplace to
ensure residents are developing and receiving feedback on the skills they
need. It is not anticipated that the duration of training will change for the
majority of trainees.

The McGill Urology Residency Program started implementation of  CBD in July
2018.  CBD applies  to all residents matched to the program as of July 2018.
Residents starting in the program are required to successfully achieve a
certain number of competencies (i.e. EPAs - Entrustable Professional
Activities) during the four (4) stages of Urology residency training -
Transition to Discipline, Foundation of Discipline, Core of Discipline and
Transition to Practice - in addition to Surgical Foundations.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP must be submitted with each application.  
EITHER:

  * A copy of Canadian Birth Certificate or a copy of Certificate of Canadian Citizenship

OR

  * A copy of Permanent Resident Card (copy of both sides of the card) OR a copy of an IMM 5292, IMM 1000, IMM 5688;   
NB: the Permanent Resident card can be expired.

OR

  * A copy of Citizenship Card (copy of both sides of the card)

P.S: the passport is not an acceptable proof of citizenship.

Each year, all candidates applying in a CaRMS match must provide proof of
valid current citizenship or permanent resident status. As of the 2021 R-1
match cycle, CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate
the citizenship/legal status verification, which is usually completed by
Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) offices.

if an applicant has had their citizenship/legal status documentation verified
by any of the following organizations for the current R-1 match, the applicant
will not be required to assign a proof of citizenship/PR document (as pictured
in the screenshot below).

  * Medical Council of Canada ([MCC](https://mcc.ca/))
  * British Columbia's Clinical Assessment Program ([BC-CAP](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/clinical-assessment/))
  * Bureau de cooperation interuniversitaire ([BCI](https://www.bci-qc.ca/en/))
  * Alberta International Medical Graduate Program ([AIMG](https://www.aimg.ca/))

For further information, please check the following link on CaRMS:
[https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-
citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-)

Examinations

Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the MCCQE Part I exam, please include the statement of
results and supplemental information report in your application.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the NAC exam, please include the statement of results and
supplemental information report in your application. The MCCQE Part II or
Certificate of Registration of the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada
(LMCC) is accepted in place of the NAC Examination.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. See selection criteria.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  700

  

A personal letter is required (maximum 700 words).  Applicants must
demonstrate an interest in the field of urology, and specific interest in our
program.

Custom Résumé / CV

Curriculum vitae is required.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Required - used for memory aid.

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

Our program requires your undergraduate transcript.

Additional required IMG documents

Lettre de reconnaissance de l'équivalence du diplôme MD

Please provide the results of the exams that permitted you to have your
medical degree recognized and approved by the CMQ.

Graduates with the diploma of doctor of osteopathy awarded by a school of
osteopathic medicine situated in the United States providing that the school
is accredited by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the
American Osteopathic Association do not have to obtain the recognition of the
equivalence of the medical diploma by the CMQ. These graduates do not require
the MCCQE Part I, the National Assessment Collaboration (NAC), or the
Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada (LMCC) in order to apply.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 8, 2025
  * February 9, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews _ _ will be scheduled by the
Urology CaRMS Fair Coordinating Office.  Interviews will take place on either
Saturday, February 8 or Sunday, February 9, 2025.  The exact date is still to
be confirmed.  Inteviews with our program will be conducted using the virtual
platform ZOOM.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Candidates selected to interview with
our program will be notified by the McGill Urology Residency Program Office.  
  
There will be an interview panel consisting of the Program Director, 1-2
urologists, and one resident representative. Each interview will be
approximately thirty minutes.  
  
All candidates selected to interview will be required to complete the McGill
University Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences Postgraduate Medical
Education Declaration of non-disclosure for candidates form prior to their
interview.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates should have a strong academic record particularly in the surgical
disciplines. They should have preferably demonstrated interest in Urology by
choosing electives in urology during medical school. References from
individuals with whom the candidate has spent time are most appropriate.
Skills in interpersonal communications and sensitivity to the needs of
patients are mandatory. A personal letter of why the candidate should want to
pursue a career in Urology should be submitted along with three letters of
references.  

All applications are reviewed by the McGill Division of Urology Selection
Committee - a Sub Committee of the Residency Training Program Committee.
Applicants are evaluated and scored on the following components:  academic
achievement, quality of letters of reference, research productivity,
leadership,  strength of personal statement and overall impression of their
application.  A final ranking score is then tabulated and a final rank order
produced.  The Selection Committee reserves the right to adjust the fnal
rankings by consensus to change the rank order of candidates based on overall
impressions of their application, interview or personal knowledge of the
candidates.  A final ranking is based on the composite score of the nterview
and the submitted application materials.

An applicant may not be ranked based upon information from their application,
or what was deemed inappropriate conduct or responses during the interview
process, or an interview performance which was not competitive.

## Program goals

Our selected resident should demonstrate exceptional interpersonal skills,
clinical skills, research experience and academic excellence.  They will be
active  members of our community, witnessed through their efforts.  Our
program believes in a positive work/life balance and encourages participation
in extracurricular activities.  Applicants should be able to demonstrate
excellence in all Canmeds roles.   In addition, we place significant emphasis
on team work.

The goal of the McGill Urology Residency Training Program is to provide high
quality urology training - including both surgical and medical aspects of
urology, and prepare residents for their Royal College examinations and for
independent pratice.  in short, we strive to train competent urologists of
high caliber with an emphasis on academic excellence.

## Selection process goals

The Selection Committe strives to identify applicants who:

Have demonstrated exceptional interpersonal and interprofessional skills.

Have demonstrated the ability to interact appropriately with patients.

Have shown an interest in Urology and who will develop into exceptional
urologists.

Have demonstrated the attributes highlighted in the CANMEDS roles

Have demonstrated ability and enthusiasm to learn and are able to adapt to the
various demands of urology residency training.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team is a Sub-Committee of the McGill
Urology Residency Training Program and is composed of the 3-4 Urologists,
including the Program Director

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Required. We evaluate the content, including research, publications, electives, etc...   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Rotations or electives in Urology   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering (medical and non medical) and mentoring   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Holding office in a student government, club or organization   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstrated interpersonal skills and excellence in CanMEDS roles   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in discipline and interest in McGill Urology Program   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interactions with colleagues and patients, surgical skills, learning abilities   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Past involvement in research publications and enthusiasm in participating in future research   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: Although not a requirement, we encourage interested
applicants to do an elective with our Program.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Our program will be hosting a virtual Program Information Session on Thursday,
October 17, 2024 @ 7:00 p.m. EST.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high-quality patient care through working in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Behaviour, attitude, ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak and write in English and working knowledge of French   
Health advocacy |  Advocates for the patient and for the community.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated interest in the field of urology, both medical and surgical aspects   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest in program location and academia   
Leadership skills |  Involvement in the continuous development and improvement of medical care   
Professionalism |  Demonstrated exceptional interpersonal skills, including with staff and residents   
Scholarly activities |  Demonstrated previous research publications and workshops   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Broad clinical exposure to all areas of Urology.

Opportunity to train with internationally renowned Urologists in their field.

Excellent and comprehensive operative exposure to all sub-specialties of
Urology.

Early exposure to robotic surgery including robotic simulators.

Integrated MIS-simulation curriculum with onsite PERC and Greenlight Laser
simulators

Weekly didactic and interactive teaching sessions throughout the year, weekly
Grand Rounds and monthly Journal Club.

Numerous research and publication opportunities.

Funding for regional, national and international Urology conferences.

Annual In-Service exam and bi-annual OSCE (PGY3-5).

Eligibility for American Board of Urology Certification.

Membership to the Canadian and American Urological Associations.

Close-knit group of residents and one-on-one interactions with attendings.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Program Curriculum

Under Competency by Design, residency training is composed of four (4) stages
in addition to Surgical Foundations.    These stages are:  Transition to
Discipline, Foundations of Discipline, Core of Discipline and Transition to
Practice.  It is expected that residents will complete their residency
training within a 5-year framework.

Surgical Foundations training includes 8 blocks of non-Urology rotations: 2
blocks of General Surgery, 2 blocks of Intensive Care, 1 block of Surgical
Foundations Boot Camp,  1 block of Transplant Nephrology, 1 block of Trauma
Surgery and 1 block of Vascular Surgery.  

PGY1

Urology: 5 blocks

Off-service rotations: General Surgery, ICU, Surgical Foundations Boot Camp,
Transplant Nephrology, Trauma Surgery and Vascular Surgery.

All rotations have been approved by the Urology Residency Training Program.

Residents who complete the Program will also have met the requirements of the
American Board of Urology.  The curriculum is in English.

During the Core of Discipline stage (PGY3), residents must participate in a 2
or 3-block clinical or basic science investigative urology research rotation,
the latter which consists of laboratory-based research in one of 4 well-
equipped and staffed laboratories.  Each resident is directly supervised by a
clinician-scientist or basic scientist ensuring adequate exposure to research
and completion of a project.  Successful residents are encouraged and
supported in presenting their work at regional, national and international
scientific meetings.

 PGY2-5 Urology Rotations including:

Cedars Cancer Centre - Urologic Oncology (McGill University Health Centre Glen
Site)

Royal Victoria Hospital (McGill University Health Centre Glen Site) & Lachine
Hospital - Endourology, Reconstructive Urology, Fertility and Sexual Medicine,
Penile & Urethral Reconstruction

Montreal Children's Hospital (McGill University Health Centre Glen Site) &
Shriners Hospital: Pediatric Urology

Jewish General Hospital and Lasalle Hospital- Urologic Oncology, Female Pelvic
Medicine, Neurourology and Reconstructive Urology

St. Mary's Hospital - General Urology, Fertility and Sexual Medicine and
Reconstructive Urology (Community Hospital Rotation)

PGY3:  3 month research block. Basic or clinical science research in the
Urology research laboratories (McGill University Health Centre Research
Institute, Lady Davis Institute, etc...)

PGY4:  1-3 periods of optional outside elective rotations

Urology training is spent at the McGill University Health Centre -Glen Site
(Cedars Cancer Centre, Royal Victoria Hospital. and Montreal Children's
Hospital) - as well as the Jewish General, St. Mary's, Lachine, Lasalle and
Shriners Hospitals. The McGill Division of Urology functions as one integrated
unit sharing in the teaching, research and clinical activities.  Each hospital
has a urology service with an established and recognized clinical expertise
coupled with a well-funded fundamental-based research laboratory on site.
Major areas of clinical expertise are grouped together in a particular site,
enhancing the residents' exposure to state-of-the-art clinical care.  For
example, urologic oncology/major reconstructive/laparoscopy/robotic surgery,
female urology/urinary incontinence/neurourology/andrology, pediatric urology,
and endourology/calculous disease, compose the 4 major clinical foci within
the  Department.  In addition, a large volume of general urology is practiced
at each site.  Residents are exposed to several specialty clinics in these
clinical areas, including the Prostate Centre, Stone Clinic, Urodynamics,
Sexual Medicine, Fertility, Multi-disciplinary Urologic Oncology, and Female
Urology.  In recent years, our training sites have expanded to include the
Lachine and Lasalle Hospitals opening a great opportunity to immense and
diverse surgical and clinical exposure.

Our program provides a Royal College fully accredited training environment.
Residents progress through their training to acquire both Surgical Foundations
and Urology competencies as required by the Royal College.  Royal College
Enstrusted Professional Activities (EPAs) are mapped to each specific training
site.  Moreover, each rotation has specific teaching objectives for each level
of training, and workload is properly defined by stage/level of training to
ensure  proper acquisition of knowledge, technical skills and clinical
responsibility.  The Division holds many clinical and teaching rounds and the
residents have ample exposure to structured teaching.  Protected teaching time
consists of weekly Grand Rounds, monthly Journal Clubs, weekly didactic
teaching seminars, as well as weekly OSCE style teaching. Three weekly
individual teaching sessions and clinical rounds are held throughout the year.
The McGill Division of Urology is also host to many Visiting Professors
throughout the year.

Electronic platforms are provided to record EPAs and case logs.  Residents are
also evaluated via summative and formative feedback, structured mid- and end
of rotations in-training assessments, as well as bi-annual OSCEs.  The program
is designed to fulfill both the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Canada and the American Board of Urology requirements of certification.



Research  
  

Research headed by Ph.D.'s and clinicians is active in the Research Institute
at the MUHC Glen site and at the Jewish General Hospital.  The Surgical-
Scientist Program is available for those interested in obtaining a Master's
degree.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

\- Jewish General Hospital

\- McGill University Health Centre - Glen Site

  * Cedars Cancer Centre
  * Montreal Children's Hospital
  * Royal Victoria Hospital 

\- St. Mary's Hospital

\- Lachine Hospital

\- LaSalle Hospital

\- Shriners Hospital

* * *

# Additional Information

There are currently eighteen residents in the McGill Urology Residency
Program.  In addition to the candidate matched via CaRMS, our Program welcomes
an international cohort of residents - 2-3 IMG trainees sponsored by contracts
- each year.

The faculty members of the Division include 22 urologists, 1 pathologist, 5
Ph.D. scientists and 1 radiation oncologist.  All faculty are felllowship-
trained in either Urologic Oncology, Endourology, Sexual Medicine & Andrology,
Transplantation, Pediatric Urology, Reconstructive Urology and Female
Urology/Functional Urology and are actively involved in one-to-one teaching.

The goal of the McGill Urology Residency Training Program is to train
competent urologists of high caliber with an emphasis on academic excellence.
Many graduates continue on to fellowships in other North American Centers and
several have received prestigious awards and honours.

Over the past five years, 80% of our graduates have secured post-training
fellowships, of whom  50% have secured academic practice, and 50% have gone
into community practice. 20% of our graduates went directly to community
urology practice without fellowship training in the USA or Canada.

McGill University proudly welcomes an international cohort of residents into
its Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) each year. Residents gain valuable
experience serving a diverse, multicultural community in French and English.
In Quebec, residents are legally required to care for patients in French and
in English. Therefore, PGME provides residents with French language
acquisition tools and resources to help ensure each can care for Francophone
patients, as well as fully benefit from their training experience.

Montreal is an exciting, vibrant multi-cultural metropolis with the McGill
Teaching Hospitals close to the heart of the city.

Our Program will be holding a virtual [Program Information
Session](https://www.mcgill.ca/pgme/events) on Thursday, October 17, 2024, @
7:00 p.m. EST.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27246?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27246