#  Dalhousie University - Orthopedic Surgery - Halifax  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Andrew Glennie  

Address Surgery  
Room 4554, Queen Elizabeth Health Sciences Centre  
1796 Summer Street  
Halifax,Nova Scotia, Nova Scotia, B3H 3A7  

Work  (902) 473-6156

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Dalhousie Orthopaedics 2023 COSSNET Roundtable
Presentation ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MxRP1mEe5O8)  
[ Dalhousie Orthopaedic Residency ](https://youtu.be/GgJaxZ-dLsY)  
[ Dalhousie Ortho - The Interviews ](https://youtu.be/WPAurEVcrn8)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Marlo Ferguson

Title: Program Administrator

Email: Marlo.ferguson@nshealth.ca

Phone: 902.473.6156

  

Name: Dr. Andrew Glennie

Title: Program Director

  
  

* * *

# Important Information

To obtain a postgraduate training license after the conclusion of the match,
Canadian Medical Graduates (CMG's) must have registered and challenged the
Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Exam Part 1 (MCCQE 1) by July 1, 2025.
Those unsuccessful in the exam are subject to the decision of the regulatory
authority regarding licensure.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

####  

You must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident _**at the time of
application**_.

Reference documents

Required

Orthopedic Surgery structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Used for memory aid

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

A personal statement letter should discuss the candidate's background and
interests as well as outline a general interest in orthopaedics. Maximum word
count of 750.

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held on January 22, 2025
via Zoom  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The Residency Program Committee
prescreens the application files. Selected candidates are then invited to
interview. The invitation is sent through email. Each candidate will be
interviewed by two interview panels composed of at faculty and residents. The
program is hoping to hold a townhall (via Zoom) with faculty and residents to
answser questions of applicants and highlight Dalhousie Ortho's facility and
programs.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Application must include a curriculum vitae and a personal statement letter.

## Program goals

The ultimate purpose of the Dalhousie Orthopaedic Training Program is to
foster an environment that residents can acquire the skills to become
successful orthopaedic surgeons.  This encompasses all areas of skill
development specifically those outlined in the CanMeds curriculum.  The
program recognizes the development of excellent surgical skills alone is not
sufficient for a surgeon to practice effectively.  The goal of the program is
the development of an educational curriculum that supports learning in
leadership, professionalism, scholar, collaborator, communicator and health
advocate.  Our commitment to success in these areas will support and
complement our efforts to create medical experts in orthopaedic surgery.  The
Dalhousie program needs to be dynamic and evolve with the needs of society and
the trainees to ensure the best environment for learning.  To this end, our
program is committed to resident wellness with the support of the Post
Graduate Medical Education Department at Dalhousie University.  Surgical
training is demanding and can be stressful for surgical trainees.  The
Dalhousie Orthopaedic Residency program encourages residents to participate in
extra-curricular activities to ensure residents can maintain work life
balance.



## Selection process goals

Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability to interact appropriately
with patients and colleagues alike.

Identify applicants interested in Orthopaedic Surgery and will develop into
exceptional surgeons.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated attributes highlighted in the
CanMEDS 2015 roles.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated abiity and enthusiasm to learn and
are able to adapt to the various demands of the Orthopaedic Surgery Residency
Training Program.

Our program and university value the importance of equity, diversity, and
inclusion (EDI) in residency education, and achieving a diverse and inclusive
group of residents is a goal of our selection process.

## File review process

Review team composition : Applicant files are distributed evenly among
volunteer reviewers. These individual reviewers meet with the program director
and program administrator as a group and an interview list is compiled.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  
There may be some exceptions

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Achievements, awards, research participation, special interests   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Clinical evaluations   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering, mentoring or any pursuits outside medicine   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Demonstrates leadership roles   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Critical evaluation of medical school performance   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Writing skills, ability to express thoughts and personality with sincerity.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Critical evaluation of the CanMeds roles demonstrated by the candidate   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Any participation in research projects leading to peer reviewed publication or presentation   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Please outline elective opportunities that you were able to participate in.
While ortho electives are always expected, it is important to have a well-
rounded experience with a breadth of exposure to other specialites.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high-quality patient care through working in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Behaviour, attitude, ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak and write in English   
Health advocacy |  Incorporates a healthy work/life balance   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated ability to excel as an orthopaedic surgeon and a well-rounded physician   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest living in The Maritimes   
Leadership skills |  Involvement in the continuous development and improvement of medical care   
Professionalism |  Correspondence with staff, residents, and administrator   
Scholarly activities |  Presents academic interests clearly   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Dalhousie Orthopaedic Training Program is five years in length and
provides a strong clinical exposure in all areas of orthopaedic surgery. There
is a large operative experience along with a robust ambulatory care component
of approximately 45,000 outpatient visits per year. This is well balanced with
a strong academic program. There is monthly journal club, weekly fracture
rounds, and a protected academic half day. Cadaveric labs occur monthly as
well as sawbones sessions.  There is now a set curriculum covering the breadth
of Orthopedics that runs on a 2 year schedule.

The evaluation process is very important. During the core orthopaedic
training, formal evaluations with appropriate feedback occur with every
rotation. Each resident writes the Orthopaedic In training Evaluation exam
every year. There are evaluating practice orals for the PGY3 - PGY5 residents
three times a year as well as a surgical OSCE each year.

PGY1

The PGY1 program is part of an integrated core program in surgery, which
involves the first two years of postgraduate training. Rotations include:

  * 4 Weeks of an Introductory Orthopaedic Bootcamp (1st rotation of the academic year)
  * 8 - 12 Weeks of Paediatric Orthopaedics
  * 28 - 32 Weeks of Adult Orthopaedics

PGY2

This year consists of:

  * 32 Weeks of Adult Orthopaedics
  * 4 Weeks of Research 
  * 8 Weeks of ICU
  * 8 Weeks of Vascular Surgery



  
  

PGY3, PGY4 & PGY5

These three years are spent rotating solely on Orthopaedics. There are nine
services:

  * Community Orthopaedics
  * Paediatric Orthopaedics
  * Spine
  * Trauma
  * Sports
  * Arthroplasty
  * Tumor
  * Upper Extremity
  * Foot and Ankle

In PGY3 there is a three-month community Orthopaedic rotation in Saint John,
New Brunswick.  

In PGY4 there is a three-month elective period in addition to the core
orthopaedic rotations. There are no set electives. The resident is at liberty
to arrange an elective in any subspecialty or in general Orthopedics. This
elective need not be completed in Dalhousie and can be done nationally or
internationally. Each elective has to be approved by the Program Director and
the Residency Training Committee. A portion of the PGY4 year the resident will
be chief resident for the program.

Research

Research is considered an integral part of the program.  There is a 4 Week
core research rotation in the PGY2 year that is mandatory for all residents
entering the program.  Residents may apply for additional research time (up to
an additional 8 weeks) to the Residency Training Committee to be scheduled
during the PGY3 to PGY5 years.   Residents are expected to present current and
ongoing projects at the annual Orthopedic Research Evening.  Residents are
encouraged to participate at the Departmental/University level for research.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

The majority of training is conducted at the Queen Elizabeth II Health Science
Centre (1796 Summer Street, Halifax, Nova Scotia).  This also includes the
off-service rotations scheduled in the PGY1 and PGY2 years.  Residents may
also be scheduled at the Hants Community Hospital (89 Payzant Dr., Windsor,
Nova Scotia), Scotia Surgery (18 Acadia St., Dartmouth, Nova Scotia) or the
Dartmouth General Hospital if their rotation supervisor is working there.

All Pediatric Orthopaedic rotations take place at the IWK Hospital for
Children (5850 University Avenue, Halifax, Nova Scotia).

In the PGY3 year, residents are required to complete a community orthopaedic
rotation at the Saint John Regional Hospital (400 University Ave, Saint John,
New Brunswick).  Housing is arranged for this 12 week rotation.



_NOTE: All residency programs are required to have 10% of their residency
training outside of Halifax Regional Municipality as stipulated in the most
recent Academic Funding Plan set out by the Department of Health and Wellness.
Please be aware that if matched to Halifax, as part of your training you may
be expected to complete rotations outside central zone but within the maritime
provinces._

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26413?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26413