#  Dalhousie University - Plastic Surgery - Halifax  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on October 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Jack Rasmussen  

Address Plastic Surgery  
QEII Health Sciences Centre, HI Site  
4714 - 1796 Summer Street  
Halifax, Nova Scotia, B3H 3A7  

Work  (902) 470-5082

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery
](https://medicine.dal.ca/departments/department-
sites/surgery/divisions/plastic-reconstructive-surgery.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Heather Munroe

Title: Program Administrator

Email: heather.munroe@nshealth.ca

Phone: (902) 473-8609

  

* * *

# Important Information

To obtain a postgraduate training license after the conclusion of the match,
Canadian Medical Graduates (CMG's) must have registered and challenged the
Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Exam Part 1 (MCCQE 1) by July 1, 2025.
Those unsuccessful in the exam are subject to the decision of the regulatory
authority regarding licensure.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

####  

You must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident _**at the time of
application**_.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three reference letters are required. Letters exceeding the requested number
will not be reviewed or considered in the scoring of the application. Letters
can be from throughout the clerkship years.

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

A personal letter is required.  We would like the candidate to tell us what
draws them to Plastic Surgery and what particular attributes they would bring
to our training program and to the practice of Plastic Surgery.  The letter
can include your experience with creativity, community involvement,
leadership, innovation, dealing with conflict, and dealing with failure, along
with examples of each. Maximum word count of 750.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Conditionally required

Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry

**Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry and/or Self-Identification of Black
Learners**

We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. Any responses received will be used only to support our
program’s and Dalhousie’s equity, diversity, and inclusion goals.

We invite applicable candidates to also complete Dalhousie’s verification
process for Indigenous identity, membership, or citizenship; or the self-
identification process for those who identify as Black.



**Conditionally required**

Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry

If you have self-identified as Indigenous, we require additional information.

Applicants shall provide a certified copy of one or more of the following
documents with their application:

  1. A Certificate of Indian Status issued by the Government of Canada, or a First Nation recognized by the Government of Canada;
  2. Written confirmation of membership or citizenship with a federally recognized band or tribal authority in the United States or Canada;
  3. Written confirmation of Inuit enrolment or a copy of an Inuit enrolment/beneficiary card issued by a modern Inuit treaty organization or government as follows:  
3.1 Inuvialuit Regional Corporation;  
3.2 Nunavut Tunngavik Incorporated;  
3.3 Makivik Corporation;  
3.4 Nunatsiavut Government;

  4. Written confirmation of Métis citizenship/membership or a copy of a Métis citizenship/membership card provided by a Métis government as follows:  
4.1 Métis National Council governing members:  
4.2 Métis Nation – Saskatchewan;  
4.3 Métis Nation of Alberta;  
4.4 Métis Nation British Columbia;  
4.5 Métis Nation of Ontario;  
4.6 Manitoba Métis Federation;  
4.7 Métis Settlements of Alberta.

Applicants who do not supply any of the documents listed above shall supply a
250-word statement with applicable supporting documentation that demonstrates
how they meet the citizenship or membership criteria established by the
recognized Indigenous nation to which they claim membership or citizenship.

The above information is only made available to Dalhousie PGME, Program
Director, and Program Manager of applicable training programs and will only be
used for purposes of the CaRMS matching process.

Please see below for the certification of documents.

# Certification of Documents

Documents may be certified by one of the following professionals:

  1. Accountant
  2. Chief of a First Nations Band
  3. Commissioner for Oaths
  4. Employee of a Service Canada Centre acting in an official capacity
  5. Funeral Director
  6. Justice of the Peace
  7. Lawyer, Magistrate, or Notary
  8. Manager of a Financial Institution
  9. Regulated Medical or Health Practitioner
  10. Member of Parliament or their staff
  11. Member of a Provincial/Territorial Legislature or their staff
  12. Minister of Religion
  13. Municipal Clerk
  14. Official of a Federal/Provincial/Indigenous Government Department or one of its agencies
  15. Official of an Embassy, Consulate, or High Commission
  16. Police Officer
  17. Professional Engineer
  18. Social Worker
  19. Teacher
  20. University Professor or Staff

The person certifying the document(s) must:

  1. Compare the original to the copy
  2. State their official position or title
  3. Print their name
  4. Sign their name
  5. Write the date they certified the document
  6. Provide their telephone number
  7. Write the following statement: This is a true copy of the original document, which has not been altered in any way

**Conditionally required**

Self-identification Process for Black Learners

If you self-identify as Black, please complete the following questions, and
include with your application:

1\. **Do you self-identify as Black?**

Yes/No

2.**If yes, please choose the category you identify most with:**

a. African Nova Scotian*

b. Black Maritimer

i. Nova Scotia without ties to a historic African Nova Scotian community

ii. New Brunswick

iii. Prince Edward Island

c. Black Canadian

d. Multiracial

i. African Nova Scotian and ______

ii. Black Maritimer and ________

iii. Black Canadian and _________

iv. Black and Indigenous

3\. **In 500 words or less, please speak to the self-identification category
you chose above. Include things to highlight your connection to Black
community as well as your lineage. If you chose African Nova Scotian, note
Dalhousie uses the following definition from the African Nova Scotian
Strategy, and we ask you speak to your specific land-based community.**

* “African Nova Scotians are a distinct People who descend from free and enslaved Black Planters, Black Loyalists, Black Refugees, Maroons and other Black people who inhabited the original 52 land-based Black communities in that part of Mi’kma’ki known as Nova Scotia.” ([African Nova Scotian Strategy](https://www.dal.ca/about/mission-vision-values/equity-diversity-inclusion-and-accessibility/about-office-equity-inclusion.html#:~:text=WHAT%20IS%20THE%20AFRICAN%20NOVA,with%20African%20Nova%20Scotian%20communities))



All self-identification documentation will be reviewed by the Black faculty
leadership within the Faculty of Medicine.



Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire or to complete Dalhousie’s verification process, but for those
that do feel comfortable doing so the information received would only be used
to advantage those who would contribute to the diversity of our community.

Optional - will be reviewed

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Self-identification questionnaire

We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. Any responses received will be used only to support our
programs and Dalhousie’s equity, diversity, and inclusion goals.  Responses
received will not be used by the program for any purpose with the exception of
this year’s first iteration match.

Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so the information
received would only be used to advantage those who would contribute to the
diversity of our community.  Several  Dalhousie University programs, including
our program, are using this questionnaire this year with the support of the
Dalhousie University Faculty of Medicine and of CaRMS.

 _Complete the form within your CaRMS Online account and assign it as part of
your application package_

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All components of each application are reviewed by the Selection Committee.
This includes the academic record, research activities, extra-curricular
activities, awards, and letters of reference. Candidate applications are
scored using a consistent, objective, weighted scoring system.  The highest
combined scores will then be short-listed and offered interviews.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 7, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: The interview dates are nationally
coordinated.  Interviews at Dalhousie University will take place on Friday,
February 7th, 2025.  
  
As soon as the members of the Selection Committee have had an opportunity to
review candidate applications, a short-list of candidates for interview will
be created.  The length of this list will vary, depending upon the perceived
quality of candidates and the number of positions available.  Each candidate
on the interview short-list will then be notified directly by the Program
Administrator.  Every effort will be made to contact candidates with interview
offers by mid January.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Our interviews are highly structured
to allow candidates the opportunity to demonstrate foundational knowledge in
Plastic Surgery, competence in communication and collaboration, and skills in
critical appraisal. We plan to offer candidates a virtual tour of our
facilities and a social time with the residents following the interview.  No
pre interview virtual information session is planned.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Our ideal candidate will have a superior academic record.  They will have
demonstrated responsibility, conscientiousness, a capacity for hard work,
resilience and initiative.  They will have demonstrated an interest in and -
as far as can be determined at this level of training - an aptitude for
Plastic Surgery.  They will show maturity and have no difficulties with
interpersonal relationships.  They will also demonstrate the potential to
pursue productive research.

These attributes will be evaluated during the file review process through:

  * breadth of clinical exposure to plastic surgery and related fields via selective and elective rotations
  * completion of research projects. Plastic Surgery specific research projects are not required. 
  * work experiences demonstrating grit and work ethic
  * reference letters from clinical supervisors throughout their clerkship years



## Program goals

The Dalhousie University Plastic Surgery training program is committed to
leadership, innovation, and excellence in the field of Plastic Surgery. Our
goal as a division is to provide the best in patient care with respect and
sensitivity, innovation in research, and to prepare future Plastic Surgeons to
continue in the promotion of excellence. We achieve these goals through
dedication, hard work, continuous acknowledgement of patient needs, and a
robust awareness of the most current literature.

We seek to inspire compassionate and creative Plastic Surgeons -
collaborators, innovators and leaders who strive for excellence while caring
for our Atlantic Canadian community, and spread the Nova Scotian values of
grit and kindness to wherever they may be.

## Selection process goals

The overall purpose of the CaRMS Selection Committee for Dalhousie Plastic
Surgery is to assist the Program Director in selecting the best possible
applicants for the residency training program. It works to ensure that
applicants are ranked according to objective criteria and that selection is
fair, unbiased, transparent and equitable to all applicants. Importantly, it
must abide by the Charter of Rights and Freedoms and Human Rights Legislation.
Our program and university value the importance of equity, diversity and
inclusion (EDI) in residency education, and achieving a diverse and inclusive
group of residents is a goal in our selection process

The successful candidate, through demonstrated performance evident in their
application, will espouse the qualities of a true professional with exemplary
communication and collaborative skills. They will have a keen scientific mind,
with the potential to contribute to the body of literature for the specialty.
They will also have the insight, emotional intelligence, and humility to
engage in a reflective practice that focuses on continual personal and
professional improvement.

## File review process

Review team composition : The CaRMS Selection Committee is comprised of most
of the Halifax site faculty members, two faculty members from the Saint John
site, and two/three senior level residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
Over the past four years, the program has received between 40-60 applications
per year.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  
The program interviews 15-18 candidates per year.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  All aspects of a candidate's CV are assessed.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We recognize that access to electives is limited; Dalhousie elective experience does not influence the file review process   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Extra-curricular activities listed in the candidate's CV are assessed.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership skills outlined in the candidate's CV are assessed.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Candidate MSPRs are assessed, but little weight is attached to them.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Personal letters from each candidate are read and assessed carefully.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Reference letters are assessed thoroughly.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research, leading to presentation/publication, is assessed.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Candidate transcripts are briefly assessed, but little weight is attached to them.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Given the limited spots for elective experiences, we do not require applicants
to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  The ability of candidates to collaborate with each other is assessed.   
Collegiality |  Collegiality in management of simulated work experience is assessed.   
Communication skills |  The ability of candidates to communicate effectively is assessed.   
Health advocacy |  Applicant's understanding of health advocacy may be assessed during the interview.   
Interest in the discipline |  The candidate's interest in plastic surgery is assessed.   
Interest in the program |  The candidate's interest in Dalhousie and Halifax may be assessed during the interview.   
Leadership skills |  We do not formally evaluate this during the interview.   
Professionalism |  The ability of candidates to function professionally is assessed.   
Scholarly activities |  The ability of candidates to understand the scientific process is assessed.   
Other interview component(s) |  Some basic specialty-specific knowledge is also assessed.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

PGY1 is the first of two foundational years of surgical training. It is an
integral part of our Plastic Surgery Training Program.

The first 4 weeks has residents starting on their home Plastic Surgery service
and participating in an intensive Surgical Boot Camp run through the Surgical
Foundations Program.  Included in this Surgical Boot Camp is completion of the
ATLS course and a number of skills-based workshops on suturing, vascular
access, operative patient positioning, chest tube placement, ultrasound
skills, and OSCE style assessments. This program has received extremely
positive feedback in its efforts to foster medical competence, empower
inexperienced junior physicians, and ultimately improve patient safety.

Plastic Surgery specific skills are also introduced during this block with
focused instruction on the basics of Plastic Surgery for Transition to

Discipline level residents.

The remainder of the academic year consists of the following rotations:

Plastic Surgery - 12 weeks

General Surgery - 8 weeks

Vascular Surgery - 4 weeks

Neurosurgery - 4 weeks

Anesthesia - 4 weeks

Emergency Medicine - 4 weeks

Infectious Disease - 4 weeks

Dermatology - 4 weeks

Selective - 4 weeks

  
  

PGY2 is the second of the two foundational years of training.  Included in
this year is the Royal College Surgical Foundations Examination.  The academic
year consists of the following rotations:

Plastic Surgery - 28 weeks

Otolaryngology - 8 weeks

ICU - 8 weeks

Orthopedics- 8 weeks

Trainees should complete the Foundations of Discipline stage of training by
the end of PGY 2

PGY3,4,5

These years make up the Core Phase of training, dedicated to the development
of competence and proficiency in Plastic Surgery.  Residents are paired with
Faculty members in a mentor-based model.  This model has residents actively
engaged in the provision of care to patients in all aspects of practice, with
early patient management and operative experiential training.  This approach
provides exposure to, and progressive responsibility in General Plastic
Surgery and the various Plastic Surgery subspecialties.  These objectives are
facilitated by Faculty members with advanced fellowship training in
Microsurgery, Breast Reconstruction, Hand Surgery, Peripheral Nerve
Reconstruction, Craniomaxillofacial Surgery, Aesthetic Surgery, Gender-
Affirming Top Surgery, and the full spectrum of Pediatric Plastic Surgery.

Senior residents are also offered the opportunity to participate in an
international charitable mission to gain exposure to cleft lip and palate
surgery in underdeveloped countries. There is also opportunity for senior
resident electives to complement fellowship applications.

  
  

Academics

In addition to daily clinical teaching, there is a coordinated academic
curriculum which includes weekly divisional rounds and a weekly academic half-
day.  The academic program includes a weekly two hour seminar in which a topic
in Plastic Surgery is comprehensively covered through a presentation and staff
mediated discussion. This is followed by an oral exam skill building session.
There is a monthly practice Royal College style written examination which
covers the preceeding month's seminar topics. The seminar schedule has been
organized to run over a two and a half year cycle, so that each resident is
exposed to every topic at least twice during their five years of residency.
The curriculum has been carefully mapped to ensure that all aspects of the
Royal College Objectives of Training Requirements are met.

The seminar schedule is complemented by a well-planned, comprehensive skills
lab curriculum which includes anatomy lab prosections, fresh cadaver flap
dissections, as well as low and high fidelity models for developing technical
skills.

The research curriculum is largely covered during our monthly Journal Clubs,
which are hosted by Faculty members. In this forum we critically appraise the
current Plastic Surgery literature, review landmark papers from the past,
discuss research methodology and statistics, and have open discourse on new
research ideas.

Efforts have also been made to have a Visiting Professor for the residents
once a year, inviting prominent figures from all over North America.

  
  

Research

The program has developed a clear matrix for awarding efforts in research.
Each resident is required to obtain a minimum number of points based on this
system, which values everything from successful REB submission to presentation
and publication.  Residents are encouraged to complete at least three research
projects to the point of presentation and publication. The Program Director
and Research Director meet regularly with the residents to assist in the
progress of each research project.

Residents are also provided with regular, dedicated, protected research time
as part of the monthly academic schedule.

There is a well-equipped Plastic Surgery Research lab, which is available to
residents wishing to pursue a basic science or bench research project. There
is clinical research expertise in epidemiology and basic science available in
the division. A formal Clinician Investigator Program is also available to
residents wishing to pursue a Masters degree and further their scientific
career.

  
  

Assessment

A robust program of assessment has been developed over recent years to include
standard rotation evaluations and a number of additional metrics in
preparation for Competency-Based Medical Education. These metrics
predominantly include work-based assessments such as EPAs to assess and
provide feedback on technical skill development, as well as multisource
feedback. Weekly academic half-day written exam scores are also included in
the resident assessment portfolio. Resident teaching evaluations and
assessments of critical appraisal skills have also been developed.

Residents complete standardized examinations (the Canadian Plastic Surgery In-
Service Examinations) each year during the Core Phase of training to provide a
measure of comparative assessment to national benchmarks.

Additionally, the program has developed an internal OSCE which is administered
to all residents each April. Results from this examination is used for both
formative and summative assessment.

* * *

# Training Sites

Training Sites

Adult Sites:

\- QEII Health Sciences Centre, Halifax, NS (Primary Training Site) 1796
Summer St, Halifax, NS B3H 3A6

\- Bayers Lake Community Outpatient Centre [420 Susie Lake Crescent  
Halifax, Nova
Scotia](https://www.google.com/maps/dir/?api=1&destination=420+Susie+Lake+Crescent+Halifax,+Nova+Scotia,+Canada+B3S+1A3)

\- Scotia Surgery Centre. 18 Acadia, Dartmouth, NS B2Y 4H3

Pediatric Site:

\- IWK Health Centre. 5980 University Ave #5850, Halifax, NS B3K 6R8

Community Site:

\- Saint John Regional Hospital, Saint John, NB



Note: All Dalhousie University residency programs are required to have 10% of
their residency training outside of Halifax Regional Municipality, but within
the Martitimes, as stipulated in the most recent Academic Funding Plan set out
by the Department of Health and Wellness.  Please be aware that if matched to
Halifax, as part of your training, you will be expected to complete rotations
outside central zone, but within the Maritime provinces.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26899?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26899