#  Western University - Emergency Medicine - London  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 13, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 5

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Allie McConnell  

Address Emergency Medicine  
London Health Sciences Centre  
800 Commissioner's Road East  
London, ON , Ontario, N6A 5W9  

Work  (519) 667-6538

Fax

Websites of Interest [ EM London (will be discontinued in the near future)
](http://www.emlondon.ca)  
[ Western Emergency Medicine (under development)
](https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/deptmedicine//emergency_medicine/index.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Allie McConnell

Title: Program Director

Email: amccon2@uwo.ca

  

Name: Brendan Maxwell

Title: Assistant Program Director

Email: rmaxwel3@uwo.ca

  

Name: Susan Pierson

Title: Program Administrator

Email: Susan.Pierson@lhsc.on.ca

Phone: 519-667-6538

  

* * *

# Important Information

Thanks for your interest in Emergency Medicine at Western University! We are
excited to be a program that is continuing to evolve and grow. We are working
on a new website which is currently being developed but will continue to
evolve and provide additional updates [UWO Emergency
Medicine](https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/deptmedicine//emergency_medicine/index.html).
Our old website [EM
London](https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/deptmedicine//emergency_medicine/index.html)
is currently active but we are transitioning to the new website as the year
progresses. Please continue to check back as this process continues.

We are working hard to evolve in the new age of Competency Based Education,
which we started in 2018. With the inequities and lack of resources in
healthcare in Canada and our population growing and changing, we are
continuing to grow our education and teaching around many underserved and
poorly served populations, and the challenges that we face in the front lines
of the Emergency Department. Having our residents and faculty bring different
life, educational experiences and back grounds is incredibly important to
serving our patients, and cultivating our identity humans and healthcare
providers. Our residents and faculty are always providing feedback to enhance
our program, so it is never static. Our profession is a dynamic one in many
ways, and we embrace this opportunity and hope that you will consider joining
us to do the same!

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided (by submitting one
of the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.
Failure to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.
No other forms of verification are acceptable.  

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of card must be provided and legible.

Reference documents

Required

Emergency Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Nationally, EM programs have moved towards a structured reference letter to
enhance our ability to compare applicants more fairly.

Please do not submit more than 3 structured reference letters - only the first
3 will be reviewed. The references should be written by attending clinical and
research faculty who are able to comment on the suitability of the candidate
with respect to the published selection criteria. There is no requirement that
any of these be from a FRCPC Emergency training Physician.





Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

To allow candidates to identify some of their experiences and reflections, our
personal letter has been replaced by an 4-item questionnaire which aims to
assess each candidate's strength in these qualities, as well as to seek some
insight as to the candidates path to medicine. **Please limit the total words
to 1000 (not including questions)** , you may distribute these between the 4
questions as you see fit.

We hope the candidates can keep our mission, vision and values in mind while
answering the questions.

1\. Please reflect on your unique path to this point in your career and life,
and any life experiences that have informed the values you hold today.  
2. Describe an unfavourable experience you have encountered in any aspect of life or medicine and how you have been able to reflect on your growth from this  
3\. Describe a time you were proud of the care you provided to a patient.  
4\. Why do you want to train and learn in London as a part of Western's EM
program?

Custom Résumé / CV

Please keep this to a maximum of 4 pages.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Will not be unmasked until after interview offers/confirmation. Used as a
visual reminder only.

Optional - will be reviewed

Self-identification questionnaire

For more information regarding the self-identification questionnaire, please
visit the CaRMS [website.](https://www.carms.ca/news/the-carms-self-
identification-questionnaire/)  Your completed questionnaire **can only be
provided to a program that requests it as an optional document and is only
provided**  **if you assign it as part of your application to that program
yourself.**

**It will not be used in any aspect of selection for our program, only for
reviewing our own processes to mitigate any bias in our methods of review and
selection.**

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Please see File Review Process

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 23, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held virtually on
Thursday January 23, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will consist of three (3)
virtual "rooms". These will consist of consultant physicians, allied health
team members, and current residents. Each room will be approximately 10-15
minutes in length. There will be a general room in which candidates can meet
and casually chat with residents that are not in the interview rooms, ask
questions, and gain additional information about the program if desired.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Please read through the rest of the information for detailed description of
our program and what we value. We always welcome connection from those
interested in learning more about our program and London, as we are proud of
the education and experience our residents get here.

## Program goals



The Emergency Medicine program at Western endeavours to provide an environment
in which we work together, residents and faculty to flourish under any
circumstances to help our patients, all of our colleagues and our community.
In 2023 we have drafted a new Mission, Vision and Values outlined below. As a
group we have identified the ideals and characteristics of our program, and
where we would like to strive to be. These qualities will guide our selection
criteria, endeavouring to engage more students to build and support our effort
to work together to build a better and more diverse program, department and
community.  

**Values**

  * **Integrity**  
    * To authentically and innately commit to conducting oneself with sound moral principles with intentionality and consistency as demonstrated by actions and behaviours (1,2)
  * **Grit**
    * The ability to show perseverance, resilience and passion in the pursuit of a long term goal despite adversity, while seeking engagement and collaboration with peers and flourishing through this process (5, 6)
  * **Social accountability**
    * To advocate for transformative change as accountable allies by engaging and collaborating with the greater community in which we practice to address the health needs and inequities of our patients (3). 
  * **Humanity**
    * To possess compassion, kindness, and acceptance and providing dignified care and valuing each individual with empathy and respect (4). 



**Mission**

 To train academic emergency physicians in a collaborative, supportive, and
inclusive program that celebrates diversity, promotes excellence and values
integrity



**Vision**

An empowering environment that fosters patient advocates and community leaders
to become adaptive and exceptional physicians and teachers.



1\. Monga, M. (2016). Integrity and its antecedent: a unified conceptual
framework of integrity. _The Journal of Developing Areas, 50(5),_  415-421.

2\. Maak, T. (2008). Undivided corporate responsibilty: towards a theory of
corporate integrity. _Journal of Business Ethics, 82_ , 353-368.

3\. Ritz, S.A., Beatty, K., Ellaway, R.H. (2014). Accounting for social
accountability: developing critiques of social accountabilty within medical
education. _Education for Health, 27(2)_ , 152-157.

4\. Ben-Noun, L. (2021). The role of humanity for human life. _B.N Publication
House, Israel._

5\. Duckworth, A.L & Peterson, C. (2007). Grit: perserverance and passion for
long-term goals. _Journal fo Personalitya nd Social Psychology, 92(6)_ ,
1087-1101.

6\. Underdahl, L., Jones-Meineke, T. & Duthely, Lunthita. (2017). Reframing
physician engagement: an anlysis of physician resilience, grit and retention.
_International journal of healthcare management, 11(3)_ , 243-250.

## Selection process goals

As outlined by the file review process we look at candidates personal
statement, scholarly activity, life experience, ability to demonstrate social
accountability and references.

We value different applicants and strive for diversity in all aspects of our
program, community involvement and education. We hope to see meaningful
committments and do not require quantity of activities but value quality and
passion in these persuits. We hope to see aspects of humanity, integrity,
collaboration with leadership in difference capacities appreciated.

We strive to be an engaged, supportive environment that hold each other
accountable while we build towards excellence as a group and individuals.



## File review process

Review team composition : A marking rubric has been established which includes
the following categories:  
  
Personal statement - We have provided four questions to gain insight into who
you are as a person, and how your experiences have shaped you into the future
emergency physician and resident. We hope that we can understand how some of
your answers help you reflect and demonstrate our values and your personal
values.  
  
Life experience - This can include but not be limited to extracurricular
activities (traditional and non-traditional), work experience, family
responsibilities and commitments, volunteering and other endeavours that have
been meaningful for you and your career. We genuinely would like to understand
you as a person, and this allows us to understand your values and character.  
  
Scholarly activity - This can be in the form of research, committees,
advocacy, innovation and other involvement that would reflect interest in
being in an FRCPC program and academic centre. Research is NOT required.  
  
Social accountability - This can include community outreach, activities
demonstrating allyship and impacting the community. We would like to see an
awareness of the many populations that we help in Emergency Medicine.  
  
References - Structured references letters as outlined by CaRMS.  
  
All of these will assessed in accordance to our mission, vision and values.
These are reviewed and scored independently after implicit bias training by
the file reviewers.  
  
  
A file review committee consists of at least:  
• Program Director  
• Assistant Program Director  
• At least 3 residents, including at least one of each of the following:
Chief, senior and junior  
• At least three other faculty from London and Windsor  
  
Each applicant is given a score based on the strength of their application.
They are reviewed in random order and we will offer interviews to 33-40
candidates based on the scores from the file review.  
  
  

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
Approximately 90-120 applicants on average

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  
Approximately 25-40% of applicants receive on interview on average and are
looking to increase the number of interview spots this year.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  A well rounded and experienced student with academic and life skills that demonstrate true passion and commitment for the endeavours they value. Quantity is not the expectation, but genuine interest in activities is recognized.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Some electives in Emergency Medicine demonstrate interest and that the candidate has had the opportunity to assure this is the specialty they wish to pursue, but they are not mandatory. Emergency medicine is very broad, so a broad range of electives is likely. There is no formal criterial on our file review for electives.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Not necessary. MRSP will be reviewed.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Varied experiences that develop character and help with resilience and balance, as well as show grit and collaboration or teamwork are an asset. We value every type of extra-curricular experience, traditional non-traditional.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Ability to show how you have previously had leadership exposure or experience and an appreciation for this will aid us in evaluating your suitability for emergency medicine but is not a discrete part of our review criteria.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Proven success and completion of your undergraduate education in Medicine.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  To allow candidates to identify some of their experiences and reflections, our personal letter has been replaced by an 4-item questionnaire which aims to assess each candidate's strength in these qualities, as well as to seek some insight as to the candidates path to medicine. We hope the candidates can keep our mission, vision and values in mind while answering the questions.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  A standardized letter of reference for Royal College Emergency Medicine candidates will be used for CaRMS 2025. The link is provided.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Candidate should demonstrate a commitment to an academic/scholastic practice of Emergency Medicine, but a research project is not necessary.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Reviewed in conjunction with the rest of the application.   
Other file component(s) |  We will be including the CSIQ as an optional aspect of the application, but it will not be used in file review scoring until we have further information and data on how to use it appropriately. We are planning to gain insight into our process and selection over time, and if we are able to identify any unrecognized bias in our current system that may be resulting in disadvantaging, under-recognizing or undervaluing any groups at this time. We will be using it as a quality review for our own selection and how we may be able to improve it going forward.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We hope applicants have been able to have adequate
exposures to many specialties including Emergency Medicine, but elective
experiences are not a part of our selection criteria.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We recognize the elective system is quite difficulty to obtain the electives
that everyone desires, and there are some financial constraints. There is NO
requirement to come here, but encourage you to reach out to the PD/APD or Lead
residents ([westernemerg@gmail.com](mailto:westernemerg@gmail.com)) for
additional information should you desire. Our program will look to plan two
virtual information sessions in the fall for additional information as well.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Although we do not have a formal activity to evaluation this we hope to see some demonstration through experiences shared during the interview.   
Collegiality |  This is an essential part of being a physician and hope this is demonstrated with contact with everyone involved in our program as well as during the interview.   
Communication skills |  Communication skills will be evaluated during the interview as well as throughout our interactions during the interview process and planning.   
Health advocacy |  We hope to be able to see some insight into how Emergency Physicians can be advocates and allies for our patients both in and out of the Emergency Department as aligned with our values.   
Interest in the discipline |  Students should demonstrate a proven interest in the practice of academic Emergency Medicine in their application, but will not be formally evaluated during the interview.   
Interest in the program |  Knowledge of our program will help facilitate discussion at interview time to allow the candidate to assess how compatible they may be with our program, but it is not a formal scoring criteria.   
Leadership skills |  Candidates who can manage and lead teams are valued, recognizing there is a range of types of strong leaders. We hope this will be communicated in the interview.   
Professionalism |  This is an overarching quality in all aspects of medicine that will be evaluated in each aspect of application and interviews with all of our staff involved in the interview and CaRMS process. There may be other opportunities to demonstrate this through the interview questions.   
Scholarly activities |  Candidates must show interest in academic/scholarly pursuits in their written application, but will not be formally evaluated during the interview.   
Other interview component(s) |  Interview day consists of 3 virtual interview "rooms" comprised of consultant physicians, residents, and allied health team members, each lasting approximately 10-15 minutes. Each room will have a combination of residents and faculty as well as allied health professionals who will all have engaged in training to mitigate bias. Questions will be varied around experience, future goals, situations and allow the ability to reflect on life experience. There will be an opportunity for questions in the rooms and outside to further learn about our program.   
  
The scoring will be standardized by a rubric according to the qualities below
and each interviewer scores candidates independently. We want to allow each
candidate to be themselves and be given the opportunity to demonstrate their
unique qualities and experiences that will facilitate their success as an
emergency medicine resident at Western University.  
  
With this multiple encounter approach, we hope to select residents who possess
the values we have outlined including the ability to persevere and the passion
to engage and collaborate as a group in pursuit of excellence (grit), while
scaffolding those around you to continually improve, operating under sound
moral principals as demonstrated by actions and behaviours (integrity),
embodying acceptance, empathy and respect (humanity) and are allies for our
community and inequities that our patients encounter (social accountability)
and celebrate diversity.  
  
We hope that there is an ability to flourish in all aspects of life, engaging
in other pursuits to balance the rigorous aspects of residency and medicine
for all candidates. We are excited to continue to engage and support each
other, our colleagues and lead as exceptional physicians, leaders, advocates,
teachers with integrity and excellence.  
  
After each interviews, each interviewer will individually score the candidate
based on the standardized rubric. These scores will then be averaged from all
the interviewers to form a rank list. Unprofessional behaviour in any aspect
of application, interaction with our program or interview will not be favoured
highly.  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Quick Facts**

  * There are four core learning sites which include University hospital, Victoria hospital, Children's hospital which are all a part of London Health Sciences Centre.
  * University hospital is our Cardiac and Neurology centre.
  * Victoria Hospital is our trauma, Psychiatry, and Obstetrical and Gynecology site.
  * Urgent Care Centre at St. Joseph's hospital is a location that the residents rotate through regularly which also boasts our Hand and Upper Limb Clinic and Ophthalmology.
  * We have opportunities to work out our distributed sites including St. Thomas, Stratford, Strathroy, Woodstock, Chatham, Sarnia, Windsor etc.
  * Our catchment area is large, providing significant opportunity to be exposed to a wide breadth of pathology and diverse populations.
  * There are currently 23 residents in the Emergency Medicine Residency Program spanning 5 clinical years.
  * Currently there are 90+ faculty members at The London Health Sciences Centre and (16) full-time Pediatric Emergency physicians at the Children's Hospital of Western Ontario and additional locums.
  * Our program is currently making some significant changes to incorporate our community stakeholders and agencies into our education and training. This is in its early stages, but hope to have more regular teaching and involvement with local agencies that serve our various patient populations. In turn, this will provide us with the opportunity to have some additional elective potential in social medicine and with our underserved populations, and more discussion and teaching around EDI topics. We have a new addictions service and elective that began in 2022-2023 academic year, and are looking for further expansion of these opportunities on a more formal basis. We are committed to expanding our incorporation and celebration of diversity into all aspects of our program.

  **Resident Rotations and Elective Opportunities**

  * There are opportunities for provincial, national, and international electives, some already established but open to other opportunities that residents would like to pursue. 
  * It is very common for residents to do electives in Clinical Toxicology at The Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto and also at Bellevue Hospital in New York City (NYCPC) ($1500 support/resident)
  * Many residents have travelled to South Africa for additional Trauma electives.
  * There are many other electives that have been undertaken, and the program is always thrilled to support new endeavours here in London, Canada and Internationally.
  * Our Obstetrics rotation is done in Windsor as a PGY2 and is a satellite site for our undergraduate Medical students as well. There is housing provided. It is scheduled in Windsor due to the high number of deliveries and low learner volume, providing a higher clinical value for our residents, as well as being a very large distributed site at UWO.
  * Our rotations are detailed elsewhere, but are guided by the Recommended Training Experiences by the Royal College, and we gain feedback quarterly and are always looking to improved the training experiences we engage in.

  **Financial Resident Support**

  * Residents are provided with a copy of the textbook Rosen's Principles and Practices of Emergency Medicine at the beginning of their residency.
  * Residents receive $500.00 per year in academic funding to use towards conferences, textbooks, or other academic uses.
  * Residents who have projects accepted for presentation at national/international conferences receive an additional $1500.00/conference (max 2) to offset the costs of traveling.
  * Our lead residents are also financially supported to go to CAEP.
  * Resident travel and accommodation costs for the toxicology and trauma electives are supported as above ($1500, increased recently).
  * The programs helps fund other recommended courses (PALS, Classic), and boots needed for EMS rotations.
  * There is an annual resident retreat which the Division of Emergency Medicine has recently increased support for ($2000).

    **Clinical and Academic Support**

  * Each resident is provided with 2-4 clinical mentors whom they work with in each Emerg block throughout residency. These are based on both clinical, research and other non-clinical interests, and can be altered or added to as relationships and interests evolve.
  * In addition, each resident has a longitudinal Competency Committee (CC) mentor who is in touch at least quarterly, and often more frequently.
  * We are looking to develop an Academic Advisory team which may look to enhance academic mentorship as well but is not established at this time. 
  * The PD and APD meet biannually with each resident individually, and frequently if desired/requested or necessary for any reason. The PD/APD, CC and Residency Program Committee (RPC) members as well as other faculty and Lead residents are very readily available should urgent issues arise.
  * Our CC meet quarterly followed by our RPC to review EPAs, clinical mentor feedback, block evaluations, teaching evaluations, research progress, CITE (Canadian In Training Exam) results, oral exam results, Simulation evaluation, Grand rounds/other presentation evaluations. This is then fed back to the resident for their review, and pre and post meeting the residents are asked for input and feedback. The residents are also invited to the RPC meetings, and there is a senior and junior representative present at each RPC meeting.
  * Should a resident require extra learning, we have the ability to support the with faculty and resident mentorship and learning plans. If a resident is exceeding expectations, we are also able to adjust the opportunities to meet these learners needs as well. 
  * Our exam preparation includes regular practice oral exams annually for all residents, with increased frequency during the exam year both formal and informally. There is currently an innovative curriculum development project being undertaken by the PD and two Lead residents to establish a formal Oral Exam curriculum.
  * Our faculty provide on shift written exams and oral exams, and we have formal written exam practice in addition to the CITE exam. 
  * Residency and this stage of life can bring many things, and should the need arise, not only the PD/APD, Lead residents and other faculty provide support, but our robust [UWO Learner Experience Office](https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/learner_experience/) and our [UWO Postgraduate Medicine Office](https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/medicine/postgraduate/) is a wonderful support and resource.

  **Research Support and Program**

  * We have strong research support with a research coordinator for our program, and each resident is well mentored and supported to present at 3 of 5 of our own Resident Research days. With this, they are also encouraged to submit to conferences and for publication and are supported with both of these processes. 
  * In coordination with our Research staff, our new Research Director Dr. Alix Carter, we have recently revamped our structure of our program allowing for increasing guidance, collaboration, teaching and support to perform the required research. 
  * We have also allowed for increasing diversity of projects including new innovative and program design related projects.
  * We have increasing collaboration with other Departments, and the Centre for Education Research and Innovation (CERI) at UWO, a world renown Medical Education institution.
  * One of our residents is finishing a longitudinal research AFC that has allowed him to have protected research time throughout residency to further explore this as a part of his Emergency Medicine education and career. 
  * We have formal clinical epidemiology teaching embedded into our Academic teaching days, as well as sessions that summarize literature into written documents for the residents to study for exam, and refer back to for clinical practice.
  * Our Journal Club has been revamped recently, and will have a hybrid of evening dinner sessions either at a faculty house, or at a restaurant. In addition there will be some sessions following Grand Rounds to allow for further faculty engagement within regular workday hours.

  **Academic Teaching Days**

  * During the 2023-2024 Academic year we transitioned to have full teaching days every Thursday. These traditionally consisted of 1 hour of Lead resident run teaching, followed by Grand Rounds (1 hour), then Rosen's Core rounds (2 hours). The afternoons have monthly Simulation, and an afternoon monthly dedicated protected time to fulfill research commitments.
  * The remainder of the afternoons include non-Rosen's and some non-clinical topics including communication, teaching as a resident, medico-legal aspects of residency, learner experience, Peds Dental trauma, Team and individual performance, ITS/clinical informatics, QA teaching, assessing styles of learners, EDI topics, how to address patients leaving AMA, how to adapt to and combine virtual and in person teaching, newcomer health, guest speakers from other specialties and community agencies (more still being planned).
  * The Division of Emergency Medicine has embarked on a new structure for Grand Rounds, having one long session from 9am-12pm monthly. We are working the other sessions around this new endeavour during this year but will consist of the same sessions just scheduled differently. 
  * Starting in the 2022-2023 year we started quarterly Human Rounds with the PD, which is a closed/confidential hour where residents can discuss difficult and challenging aspect of residency including cases, ethics, interpersonal interactions or other aspects of their path that they may need support for. 
  * Each Rosen's teaching session is supposed to have an opportunity to practice or watch a practice oral exam, some written testing/quiz, as well as literature to support the core topic. The faculty are provided with guidelines to ensure these are current and interactive. The content is then saved in a confidential online database for future access. These were just reorganized to follow a three year cycle. 
  * In the 2024-2025 year we are having our residents sign up to collaborate with 2-3 Rosen's core teaching sessions each year. In keeping with the literature surrounding learning and education, having learners develop questions around topics significantly enhances learning. Our junior residents will contribute to the written quiz, and our seniors will develop an oral exam, both with coordination and supervision from the staff. 
  * We are currently working to improve and expand our EDI curriculum, but have asked each of our faculty and teachers to incorporate EDI into each and every session.
  * In addition, our planetary health is an important consideration we have asked our faculty to consider during teaching, and are looking to some more formal instruction and ways to compliment these efforts.
  * In the 2022-2023 year a Transition to Practice curriculum was developed which included discussion about financial transitions to practice, more in depth medico-legal discussions, disclosing error, teaching as a faculty, dedicated simulation for this group, involvement in additional teaching and supervision for medical students and residents (clinical and non-clinical), further opportunities for moonlighting, learning plans to prepare for practice, and transition to practice blocks in the last half of the year. These T2P blocks focused on refining on shift teaching, handover, documentation, leadership, department management and flow.
  * This year for our T2P cohort we are looking to develop a "junior faculty" role in the department in the second half of the year, but will be further developments in the near future. 

  **Fellowships and Area of Focused Concentration/Interests**

  * Residents are encouraged to use their elective time wisely to gain additional expertise in an area of concentrated interest.
  * Areas of interest previously explored include: Critical Care medicine, Sports Medicine, EMS, PoCUS, Disaster Medicine, Tropical Medicine, Narrative Medicine, Addictions, Trauma, Wilderness Medicine, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Resuscitation and Reanimation/Simulation, Palliative Care, Transport Medicine, Toxicology, as well as Masters Programs in Clinical Epidemiology, Public Health, Medical Education, Business Administration and Health Administration.
  * We currently have begun longitudinal fellowship experiences including Research, Wilderness medicine and Sports medicine and provide ongoing support and protected over the duration of the residency program for these new endeavours. 

  
---  
  


* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The strengths of the program reside within the dedicated faculty, the
commitment to teaching, and the extensive and varied patient population and
catchment area. We are constantly looking to improve and expand our
curriculum, and quarterly evaluations of each aspect of the program on a
rotation, as well as regular input from the residents longitudinally to assure
we are meeting the requirement of the Royal College/accreditation, as well as
the needs of our learners and faculty. Our faculty are engaged and
enthusiastic, as are our residents.

Quarterly we review 2-4 rotations formally at our RPC meetings, and adjust
these learning opportunities accordingly. We are in the process of adapting
our objectives and target EPAs for each of these rotations to ensure there is
clear competencies, EPAs and objectives associated with each rotation.

Residents are evaluated on a quarterly by means of direct observation and in-
training examinations, both written and oral in nature, EPAs, clinical
mentors, presentation and teaching evaluations, Simulation, and research. The
Program Director and Competence Committee review resident progress on a
regular basis and feedback is regularly provided. We are currently working
with our PGME for their upcoming improvements in our online EPA system to
further this ability.

Residency Training Program Start Date: All programs at Western commence on
July 1, 2025. **All residents are strongly encouraged to attend an orientation
in  London, Ontario which is organized by our PGME. **In addition, we have
started an Emerg specific orientation for our new residents which will likely
expand in the coming years.

**Leading into each academic year resident request the order/time year of
their rotations, and the program requests these to the best of their ability
dependent on what the other services can accommodate. These are based on  [The
Royal College Recommended Training
Experiences](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&rct=j&opi=89978449&url=https://www.royalcollege.ca/content/dam/documents/ibd/emergency-
medicine/emergency-medicine-rte-training-
experiences-e.pdf&ved=2ahUKEwinoabRjpiIAxU8kokEHTOfI6cQFnoECCIQAQ&usg=AOvVaw0UO4s8qLGl_t2FVxmRlmcP).**



**Year 1**

_**Transition to Discipline / Foundations  
**_

Adult ER (4) (with longitudinal EMS rideouts 1 per ER block)

Urgent Care Centre (1)

Paeds ER (2)

Anesthesia (1)

POCUS (1)

Medicine Clinical Teaching Unit (1)

General Surgery (1)

Pediatric General Surgery (1)

Psychiatry (1)

 **our PGY1 residents start their first 2 blocks on Emerg rotations/Urgent
care/Peds Emerg rotations to assure a smooth transition and familiarity with
our faculty. This also facilitates a slightly reduced shift load to
accommodate additional orientation requirements and sessions on transition to
residency.



**Year 2**

_**Core**_

Ortho Trauma (1)

Ortho Hybrid (sports medicine focus) (1)

Critical Care Trauma Centre (2)

Cardiac Care Unit (2)

Adult ER (2-3) (with longitudinal EMS rideouts 1/block)

Paeds ER (1-2)

OB/GYN (1) - Windsor

Anesthesia (1)



**Year 3**

**_Core_**

ER Senior Medical Resident (1)

Trauma (1)

Pediatric Critical Care Unit (2)

Neurology (half stroke team, half community clinics) (1)

Adult ER (4) (with longitudinal ride outs until EMS/prehospital rotation is
completed)

Paeds ER (2)

Electives (2)





**Year 4**

_**Core**_

Adult ER (5)

Paeds ER (2)

Urgent Care Centre (1)

Electives (5)

***During the elective blocks in year 3, 4, or 5 residents complete 1 block
each of Advanced PoCUS, EMS, a community Emerg rotation and Toxicology***



**Year 5**

_**Transition to Practice**_

Area of interest (6) (can be spread throughout residency if desired)

Electives (2)

Adult/Paeds ER (5)



Our electives are flexible and these rotations are a guideline and can be
altered to suit the learning of each resident. In addition, there are
opportunities to do additional Emergency medicine rotations in other locations
that would count towards Emerg blocks or electives. We are flexible and do our
best to assure everyone has their learning needs met over the course of five
years.

**Electives**

Undergraduate students may be interested in an elective in Emergency Medicine
at UWO are welcomed! Now with the return of electives following COVID, the
link is
<https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/medicine/undergraduate//md_program/visiting_student_electives.html>

Medical students are required to apply through the AFMC portal.

If you are coming for an elective, please reach out as we would love to be
able to introduce our program to you, and have you at our academic teaching
days. If you are unable to get an elective we completely understand this is
largely out of your control. We would still be happy to discuss the program
with you. Please consider following us on Instagram
[@westernUemerg](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&rct=j&opi=89978449&url=https://www.instagram.com/westernuemerg/%3Fhl%3Den&ved=2ahUKEwjujq68j5iIAxWqkYkEHRW8JWQQFnoECBYQAQ&usg=AOvVaw080af9kVQvwcmYPON25woT)
for updates, information on our virtual office hours with the residents (and
soon to come with the PD/APD). In addition our Lead residents can provide
additional contacts and information at westernemerg@gmail.com.

**Teaching**

_Academic days_

Each Thursday we have our protected academic teaching day. These run from
September to June, and July and August are "summer school" (see below).

8am - Lead Resident rounds

_9am - Grand Rounds**_

10-12 - Core Rosen's teaching

1pm - afternoons sessions (varied, see below)



Our Lead resident rounds are organized by our PGY5 residents and consist of
some clinical pearls, quizzes, games and guest speakers. Our accredited Grand
Rounds has traditionally been is a 1 hour session conducted by faculty, a
combination of faculty and residents or outside guest speakers spanning a
variety of topics. These are in person, and a welcome return to this format
after COVID.

_**A new endeavour the Division of Emergency Medicine has begun is Monthly
grand rounds which run from 9-12. With this will come with additional guest
speakers, continued opportunity for residents, and increased faculty
engagement and participation. After this an informal offsite lunch is planned
to enhance wellness and camaraderie. As a result these same sessions will be
delivered, but with a slight modification to the scheduling to allow for a
trial of this new format._

Our Core Rosen's teaching is 2 hours, and has recently been reorganized to be
on a 3 year rotation to cover all the topics in the new 10th Edition. Faculty
are required to teach around the topic as per the Rosen's chapter, but also
include relevant literature, guidelines, an example of an oral case and
written exam, as well as case based teaching. The information is then stored
in a secure online database for the residents to access after.  The
expectations prior to the teaching include reviewing the Rosen's chapter and
objectives and literature or material provided by the faculty conducting that
session. These sessions have the expectation to be done in a psychologically
safe fashion, with an awareness to EDI principles and information surrounding
effective teaching in a didactic fashion, as well as an awareness to planetary
health in this context.

As a new form of engagement and learning, the residents will be collaborating
with the faculty on 2-3 sessions each year, with the junior residents
contributing to quiz question generation, and the seniors to oral exam case
generation. This provides additional solidification of the learning concepts,
and a bank of cases for the residents to access for studying and review.

In the afternoon there is monthly high fidelity simulation that is held at
another facility for all of the FRCPC residents. We have recently renovated
part of our Emergency medicine space to accommodate a small simulation lab at
the hospital, and look to expand the Simulation time in the 2025-2026 year.
Our Simulation Leads have secured funding for an in depth generation of a new
Simulation curriculum with a group of highly engaged faculty over the next
year. This will translate into two simulation sessions monthly (1 senior, 1
junior) in our new Emergency Medicine Simulation facility.

Other simulation sessions include other procedural days including
canthotomies, open thoracotomies, tendon repairs, crichothyrotomy on cadavers
in our anatomy lab. Additional Simulation is built into our summer school
curriculum including Epistaxis, POCUS, nerve blocks, central lines,
thoracotomies, arterial line placement, etc.

Our PGY2s also have a comprehensive curriculum for their sports medicine/ortho
hybrid rotation with intermittent sessions dedicated to the musculoskeletal
exam and management of these injuries and conditions.

There is also an afternoon each month that is dedicated research time, the
residents have this free to use for research if they choose. There is no
scheduled session during this time and they are protected from having to
return to their clinical duties.

The other afternoons are a new addition as of the 2023-2024 academic year and
will continue to expand in the 2024-2025 year. These include varied medico-
legal topics, communication, teaching as a resident, evolution of learning and
studying, how to combine in person and virtual learning, learning strategies,
geriatrics additional teaching, pediatric dental teaching, social medicine and
engagement, leadership, styles of learners, clinical epidemiology, QA
teaching, sessions from our local police surrounding human trafficking,
2SLGBTQ+ session and subsequent simulation session, indigenous sensitivity
training and are working on additional sessions surrounding trauma informed
care, trans health, and around our role in helping our under privileged and
under served patients, newcomer health, ethics in the ED, etc.

A new ethics curriculum is also currently being generated with hopes to begin
in the second half of this academic year.

These afternoons also allow us to enjoy team building and wellness activities
as a group.

We have an annual Airway Day, which includes extensive teaching from our local
airway experts (including some AIME instructors), Anesthesiologists and
Critical Care Physicians. We also have a Resident Research day annually to
allow both the FRCPC and CCFP-EM and medical students to present their
research.

In the 2022-2023 year we had quarterly confidential Human Rounds with the PD.
These were a safe space for residents to discuss the more difficult aspects of
medicine and residency in a supportive group of peers. This is open to any
aspect of life or residency that they want to discuss, and is completely
voluntary. The PD has expanded some of these sessions to include other aspects
of humanism in medicine.



_Summer School_

During July and August our Thursday teaching is organized differently, and
includes orientation and ice breaker sessions for the PGY1s, an introductory
POCUS course and EMS orientation and introductory Simulation sessions for the
PGY1 cohort, and this is often paired with the CCFP-EM residents. The sessions
during the rest of the summer include increased focus on procedures (lines,
chest tubes, casting, nerve blocks, surgical airways, pericardiocentesis etc),
trauma, critical care, blood gas interpretation, EPA/CBME updates, toxicology,
plastics pearls, and wellness activities.



_Exam Preparation_

We have an study schedule that residents can use and modify that is provided,
as well as mentorship from previous residents and faculty. With this there is
formal written and oral exams performed throughout the year, as well as
informal oral exams and written exams performed before or after shifts, and on
other time. Our faculty is very engaged in this preparation. Should a resident
have some difficult, a learning plan and additional mentorship and supervision
is established if needed. Regular communication with the residents studying
the PD/APD, RPC and faculty facilitate studying and mentorship throughout this
challenging year. There is a shift reduction in the several months prior to
the exam, and further during exam months. Our PGY4 and 5 residents self
schedule with specified guidelines to facilitate exam preparation and their
AFC/AFI in their PGY5 year.

The PD and two lead residents are currently undertaking the development of an
Oral exam curriculum through an innovative project design to facilitate future
cohorts examination preparation.

In the past, there is financial support for the Kingston Review Course. This
was not held last year, and there was a collective effort from the programs
across the country to organize practice oral exams and a literature summary
for all residents across Canada to aid in studying. This will continue in some
form of literature review this year, and will be financially supported by the
program.



_Transition to Practice_

The 2022-2023 year was the first year we had a transition to practice (T2P)
cohort. They had some separate teaching with further detail about medico-legal
teaching, litigation, financial transition to faculty, how to disclose errors,
becoming a teacher as a faculty, and legislation and complaint processes. In
addition, they had a dedicated simulation day revolving around transition to
practice content. They were expected and welcomed to additional teaching roles
for both postgraduate, undergraduate students, undergraduate coaching, death
review committee, additional CaRMS opportunities, oral exam development and
administration, learner supervision and simulation teaching. There was the
ability to alter rotations and shifts based around future practice and
perceived need, and support throughout to assure all aspects of clinical and
non-clinical objectives were addressed. We also had the opportunity to have a
T2P block which allowed the residents to focus on department flow and
organization, supervision of learners, documentation, handover, billing,
receiving patch calls, addressing the nursing concerns and close oversight of
clinical plans. These were identified to faculty, and particular competencies
were focused on in each shift with a discrete evaluation associated with this.
The T2P residents enjoyed these. This was also in addition to an optional
"teaching" block if the residents wanted to focus their teaching together. We
are looking to start a "junior attending" model of shift for the second half
of this year, as well as introducing some additional T2P discussions around
incorporation and financial literacy as faculty.



_Area of Focused Competency/Interest and Fellowship_  

We have had a variety of interests and here at UWO have a formally accredited
PoCUS and Prehospital AFC program, as well as being a centre with a Pediatric
Emergency department with the opportunity for further pursuits of Pediatric
Emergency Medicine. Other pursuits have included Critical Care, Trauma,
Toxicology, Resuscitation and Reanimation/Simulation, Medical Education,
Addictions, Research, Clinical Epidemiology, Masters in Health Administration,
Masters in Business Administration, Masters in Public Health, Narrative
Medicine, Wilderness Medicine, Sports Medicine, Palliative Care and more. The
opportunities are extensive and well supported by our program. We are able to
individualize the T2P year, and time throughout residency to suit each
resident's particular needs and desires.



_Journal Club_

Our journal club was significantly disrupted by COVID, and is being rebuilt
under the leadership of Dr. Alix Carter, our Research Director. These have
been in the evening and are accompanied by a meal at a restaurant or faculty
hour. The 2024-2025 year has plans to have some additional changes to also
introduce journal club sessions over lunch after Grand Rounds to allow for
additional faculty to attend, protected time for the residents and a larger
group discussion.

In addition to journal club, we have "Bottom lines" sessions which are
organized by our Lead residents and supervised by some of our research
faculty. These comprise of a collection of practice changing papers, both
historical and recent. Each resident is tasked with summarizing 1-2 articles
both written and orally, and then these are shared with the group. These are
kept in a repository for the residents to access as they study or as they need
for other research, presentations, or clinical practice.

We have some of our research support staff performing additional teaching
around critical appraisals to allow for active participation in Journal club,
in addition to the clinical epidemiology teaching done during Academic
teaching time.



**Research**

Each trainee is expected to be involved in one scholarly project at all times.
Although this may involve research, residents are also encouraged to be
involved in the planning, implementation and evaluation of educational
programs as well as continuous quality improvement projects, development of
guidelines and care pathways and disseminating this work. Ideally, these
scholarly activities are of long-term interest and can be an interactive
project over the three presentations.

Residents are expected to present their work annually at the program's
Residents Research Day for at least three years over the duration of
residency, and have substantial support from our research office and mentors.
In recent years there has been additional expansion of the type of research
including increasing QI, Innovation, and qualitative research endeavours.
Presentation at Residents are encouraged and supported to submit manuscripts
and present at national and international conference, and have funding to help
offset these costs.

The research team and PDs have recently reinvented the structure and support
to aid in the process of performing research in residency. This includes
additional resources, templates, recruitment of faculty with active
involvement in research, and more active programming to allow for a more
stream lined and straightforward process to accomplish resident research
goals.

* * *

# Training Sites

Clinical experience is gained at the London Health Sciences Centre (Victoria
Hospital and University Hospital sites) as well as the Children's Hospital of
Western Ontario (Victoria Hospital). The London Health Sciences Centre also
operates as a regional Trauma Referral Centre. It is the Base Hospital for the
Prehospital Care Program. London has both Basic and Advanced Care paramedics
in the field that are under on-line and off-line medical control. Rotations
also occur at St. Joseph's Health Centre which runs an Urgent Care Centre. The
Obstetrics rotation during PGY2 is done in Windsor, and accommodations are
provided as well as mileage. It is a distributed site of Schulich for both
undergraduate and postgraduate medical training.

There are opportunities for provincial/national/international electives. These
electives need to be arranged by the residents with approval of the PD. In
general, there is not financial support for residents in these electives, but
additional grants and discretional annual funding already allotted to the
residents can be used.

The other opportunity that our residents have is Moonlighting. This can occur
after Pediatric ICU training in PGY3 through the Restricted Registration
program in Ontario. There are a plethora of opportunities for our senior
residents to gain additional independence and confidence, as well as work on
the flow and organization of an Emergency Department, or more scarce
resources. In addition there is opportunity to Moonlight with our Trauma
service here at LHSC to get additional experience and exposure in this area.
This privilege is monitored and logged, and provided all other aspects of
residency commitments and engagements are being performed, is an excellent
addition to the core residency program.

* * *

# Additional Information

We are looking forward into the future of Emergency Medicine and the
development of our clinicians. As a result, we have plans to develop more EDID
curriculum, assure Wellness and adaptability of our program, as well as
looking at ways to further diversify and value candidates that have come from
varied backgrounds. We have a very collegial and open relationship with the
residents, faculty and program directors and are constantly updating our
program and curriculum through highly valued feedback from our residents,
medical students, faculty, allied health and administration. We are a program
who is engaged and enthusiastic about evolving our education, clinical care
and supporting one another during this journey!

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27114?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27114