#  University of Saskatchewan - Neurosurgery - Saskatoon

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on August 30, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Syed Uzair Ahmed  

Address Neurosurgery  
Royal University Hospital  
103 Hospital Drive  
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, S7N 0W8  

Work  (306) 844-1357

Work  (306) 655-1333

Websites of Interest [ Division of Neurosurgery
](https://medicine.usask.ca/department/clinical/surgery-
divisions/neurosurgery.php)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Lissa Peeling

Title: Program Director

Email: lissa.peeling@usask.ca

  

Name: Carissa Miskolczi

Title: Program Administrator

Email: neuro.surgery@usask.ca

Phone: (306) 844-1357

  

* * *

# Important Information

Applicants are responsible for reviewing the [University of Saskatchewan
Policies for the R-1 Match](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/saskatchewan/) to determine if they meet all
requirements and eligibility criteria. Failure to meet or provide proof of any
of the stated requirements or documents may result in an applicant’s file not
being reviewed or ranked.

**Casper Test**  
All applicants must complete the Casper test. Please refer to the Examinations
section for more information.

**Licensing  
** Matched applicants must be eligible for an educational register license
with the [College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Registration___Licensure/web/Applicants/Licensure/Registration_and_Licensure_Landing.aspx?hkey=75b022f8-df64-4f34-8e2a-a09bea881787)
(CPSS) for a July 1st start date and must maintain eligibility for an
educational register license throughout their entire training program. Matched
applicants who are graduating in the spring will need to provide a copy of
their medical degree/diploma to the PGME office and the College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Saskatchewan (CPSS) prior to the start of residency training.
Any delays in providing all required documentation to CPSS may result in the
following:

  * delay in issuance of an educational register license and a delay in start of postgraduate training beyond July 1st
  * release from CaRMS match contract

**Applicants completing medical education at the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)**  are
required to submit proof of English language proficiency before the rank order
deadline to demonstrate they meet CPSS requirements. More information is
available under Supporting Documentation-Language Proficiency.

**NOTE:**  Applicants who are considering a delay to their convocation date
must be aware that a medical degree cannot be issued to a student until they
have convocated. CPSS bylaws require that new residents must have received
their medical degree prior to the commencement of residency training. Choosing
to delay convocation will affect a matched applicant’s ability to commence
their residency training program in Saskatchewan on July 1. Please refer to
the [U of S CaRMS Deferral Policy](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/carms-
deferral-of-training-start-date---match-violation-release-from-
match.php#relatedForms) for additional information.

**Credentialing**  
In order to commence and continue in Postgraduate Medical Education training
programs, matched applicants must be eligible for and maintain privileges
within the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) as determined by their
credentialing process. The Saskatchewan Health Authority requires successful
applicants to submit immunization records and a current criminal record check
as part of their pre-resident application for appointment. Applicants with
criminal records will be considered on a case by case basis by the College of
Medicine in consultation with the Health Authority.

Any delays in providing all required documentation to the Saskatchewan Health
Authority may result in a delay in the start of postgraduate training beyond
July 1st.

**Resident Boot Camp  
** All matched applicants must attend a mandatory three-day Resident Boot Camp
scheduled for late June. The purpose of the Boot Camp is to provide additional
support to trainees as they transition to residency by introducing and
consolidating baseline skills and knowledge needed to flourish during their
residency years. The program will include interactive case-based and hands-on
practice sessions. Stipends will be provided to trainees.

Attendance is required and absences are only permitted in exceptional
circumstances, with prior approval of PGME.

**Advanced Cardiac Life Support  
** Matched applicants are required to provide proof of ACLS certification
(current as of July 1, 2025) to the PGME office prior to starting their
training program. The ACLS course must be endorsed by the Heart and Stroke
Foundation of Canada and/or the American Heart Association. ACLS training that
is not certified by these two organizations and/or is completed entirely
through an online course will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for
all costs associated with obtaining ACLS certification.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

All applicants must be Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents at the time of
application and must submit a notarized/certified photocopy of one of the
accepted citizenship documents.

Proof of citizenship must be current at the time of application and expired
documents will not be accepted.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum of 7.0 in each of the components

**Language assessment document accepted:**

  1. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on paper at a test venue
  2. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on a computer at a test venue
  3. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine at Home

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum grade of B

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of 9 in all sections

Applicants may be required to provide proof of proficiency in the English
language to meet licensing requirements of the [College of Physicians and
Surgeons (CPSS) of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Licensure/Requirements_Content/English_Language_Proficiency.aspx).

Applicants who graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States,
where English is the language of instruction **are not**  required to submit
proof of English language proficiency.

**Canadian applicants with medical education from the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)  are required
**to meet the English language proficiency requirements of the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan and must complete one of the language
exams listed above.

Applicants who are required to complete a language exam must submit a valid
test score in their CaRMS application **by the deadline for submission and
assignment of applications and documents.** Applicants who do not provide
acceptable proof of language proficiency, if required, will not be ranked.

Applicants must meet all of the criteria in one of the IELTS, OET or CELPIP
examinations. Please note that results from examinations cannot be combined,
unless the testing institution offers a sub-test.  
NOTE: Only OET offers sub-tests. CPSS will accept sub-tests obtained within
the same 24-month period as the original OET exam was sat.

Please direct any questions about language requirements to
[della.toews@usask.ca](mailto:della.toews@usask.ca). Applicants should not
contact CPSS directly about their eligibility for licensure.

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference will be accepted, preferably from physicians or
scientists who have an academic position and are well acquainted with an
applicant's clinical and/or research capabilities.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter is required. The candidate should introduce themself,
indicate career interests and goals and any relevant experience or exposure to
the field of neurosurgery.

Custom Résumé / CV

No specific format is required.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Our review team is composed of the Program Director, the Chief Resident,
program administrators and designated faculty members.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 27, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Our virtual interviews will be held Monday,
January 27, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The interview committee comprises of
neurosurgery faculty, residents, nursing, interprofessional personnel, and
administrators. The interview is comprised of a number of interview panels.
Each candidate selected for an interview will have an opportunity to meet with
each of the interview panels.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We are looking for well rounded, mature individuals who exhibit interest in
neurosurgery through experience in the form of electives, rotations, or
research.  An interest in neuroscience is an asset.  Applicants who are hard
working, dedicated, have an enthusiasm to learn as well as adapt to the
demands of neurosurgery residency training are encouraged to apply.
Applicants are encouraged to have leadership experience and have demonstrated
attributes highlighted in the CanMEDS roles.  Applicants must be able to excel
in team environments.  

## Program goals

The University of Saskatchewan offers a well-organized, comprehensive training
program in Neurosurgery as per the Royal College guidelines.  The program is
fully accredited. Our residents will demonstrate exceptional interpersonal
skills, clinical skills, surgical skills, leadership skills, research
experience and academic excellence.  

Our program strives to train exceptional, well rounded neurosurgeons who are
competitive for fellowship positions and job opportunities at the completion
of their training program.  

## Selection process goals

\- Applicants will have an interest in neurosurgery, and have demonstrated
this interest by way of rotations, electives, research or other neurosurgery
related experience.

\- Applicants will have an acceptable academic record which demonstrates both
basic proficiency in clinical medicine, and special proficiency in subjects
related to neurosurgery.

\- Experience in research will be an asset.

\- Experience in team work, or leadership will be an asset.

\- Applicants will have excellent communication and interpersonal skills.

\- Applicants will have demonstrated an ability to interact appropriately with
patient and other team members.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team is composed of the program director,
chief resident, program administrators and designated Neurosurgery faculty
members.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  
There may be some exceptions.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We evaluate the content, including research, publications, presentations, and work experience.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Clinical evaluations (in particular those from a neurosurgery rotation or elective).   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  All applicants must complete a Casper exam to be eligible for consideration.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Activities (example: sports teams or musical interest); Volunteering; Mentoring   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership experience (example: holding office in a student government/organization; team coach)   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstrate interpersonal skills   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in discipline and program location.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interaction with colleagues/patients; Interest in discipline.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest, experience and dedication to research.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic Performance   
Other file component(s) |  Casper exam   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We encourange applicants to have some exposure to neurosurgery by way of
electives, rotations or other experience. There is no minimum requirement of
number of weeks of electives.

We will consider applicants who have not done electives or rotations at the
University of Saskatchewan.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due
to weather, technology failure or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high quality patient care through working in a team environment.   
Collegiality |  Behavior, attitude, ability to work well with others, particularly inter-professional personnel.   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak and write in English.   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrate concern in advocating for patient care, as well as, health care resources.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrate interest in neuroscience, particularly a passion for neurosurgery.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrate interest in living in Saskatchewan, particularly Saskatoon.   
Leadership skills |  Involvement in the continuous development and improvement of medical care.   
Professionalism |  Behaviour at the interview day, correspondence with administrators or other team members.   
Scholarly activities |  Demonstrate excellence in the clinical, educational and research opportunities.   
Other interview component(s) |  Ability to express oneself clearly and succinctly.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  Demonstrated clear lack of interest in the discipline or the
location.  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Quick Facts**

\- Competency by Design educational delivery, both in Surgical Foundations as
well as Neurosurgery

\- Up to 12 months for research including up to 6 months
interprovincial/international electives.

\- Home call on Neurosurgery. Call coverage restricted to one hospital.

\- Early hands on experience in the operating room.

\- Ratio of residents to faculty is about 1:1.

\- Pediatrics and spine are integrated into daily work (not a separate
rotation).

\- Excellent support for attendance at conferences/meetings.

\- Masters Program, Ph.D Programs, Royal College Clinical Investigator
Program.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 6 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

### PGY-1 and 2 (Transition to Discipline & Foundation Stages)

These two years include rotations in General Surgery/Trauma, Plastics, Ortho
Spine, ICU, Emergency Medicine, Neurology, and at least twelve months of the
first two years are spent in neurosurgery.

### PGY-3 to 6 (Junior Core/Senior Core & Transition to Practice Stages)

During the subsequent four years of training, residents complete 30 additional
months of clinical neurosurgery.  Off service rotations include outpatient
clinic, Cerebrovascular Neurosurgery, Neuroradiology, Neuropathology,
Peripheral Nerve. One year may be spent in basic or clinical research, or
alternatively spent in subspecialty neurosurgical training (i.e. a clinical
elective).  Up to six months of this 12 month block may be spent outside of
Saskatchewan (in Canada or internationally).

### Electives

An optional community neurosurgery rotation in Regina is available.
Additionally, up to six months may be spent in an interprovincial or
international elective (see PGY-3 to 6, above).

### Research

Clinical or basic research is strongly supported and encouraged. Research
opportunities in spine injury, pediatric neurosurgery, oncology, neural
regeneration, stroke, epilepsy surgery, and neurosurgical applications of the
synchrotron are readily available. A Masters of Surgery or Ph.D may be
obtained through the Department of Graduate Studies or through the Royal
College Clinical Investigator Program
([www.medicine.usask.ca/research/clinical-programs/clinical-program-
files/CIP-2011](http://www.medicine.usask.ca/research/clinical-
programs/clinical-program-files/CIP-2011)).

* * *

# Training Sites

**Distributive Learning at the University of Saskatchewan**

The College of Medicine, while physically located in Saskatoon, is a
provincial resource in attitude and in practice. Postgraduate medical
education at the University of Saskatchewan takes seriously its role in
supporting quality health care to all people of the province. This means
training physicians to meet the needs of, not only urban populations, but also
those of rural and remote populations. In so doing, the College of Medicine
has developed, and continues to develop, rotations in Regina and other
communities. These rotations are designed to provide educational experiences
to enhance the resident's knowledge and skills, and take maximum advantage of
unique educational opportunities in a diversity of communities. All
postgraduate programs are expected to develop and incorporate into their
curriculum, rotations in communities other than Saskatoon. The manner in which
each program does this is not strictly prescribed by the College of Medicine -
but is determined by the Residency Training Committee, taking into
consideration the needs of their residents, and the excellent opportunities
available in other locations. These rotations continue to evolve as we seek to
build stronger and better programs.

Extensive support is available for rotations completed at other sites in the
province. The exact nature of this support varies with location and program.
The communities involved, individual programs, the College of Medicine, and
the Ministry of Health work collaboratively to ensure residents are not
financially disadvantaged by the need to relocate. Temporary housing is
available at no expense to residents who leave their home site to complete
short term mandatory rotations at distributed sites in Saskatchewan. Please
review the [PGME Housing Guidelines](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/pgme-
housing-guidelines-pgme-housing-application-for-short-term-mandatory-
rotation.php#relatedForms) for more detailed information.

While all residents are strongly encouraged to take advantage of educational
experiences in other communities to ensure a well rounded education, the
amount and format of such time is determined by the program committee. Royal
College Specialty residents are encouraged to complete 10% - 20% of their
training in Regina.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27322?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27322