#  University of Toronto - Diagnostic Radiology - Toronto

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 08, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 8

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Charles Yan  

Address Medical Imaging  
263 McCaul St.  
Toronto, Ontario, M5T1W7  

Work  (416) 978-6801

Websites of Interest [ Diagnostic Radiology Residency Website
](https://medical-imaging.utoronto.ca/About-Diagnostic-Rad-Program)  
[ PGME at U of T ](https://pg.postmd.utoronto.ca)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Charles Yan

Title: Program Director

Email: charles.yan@utoronto.ca

Phone: 416-978-6801

  

Name: Irina Iovu

Title: Program Administrator

Email: radiology.residency@utoronto.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion**  
All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of the
University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

  
**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)  
** The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.  
  
_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

**CASPER TEST REQUIRED** (Admissions assessments of non-cognitive skills)

All applicants applying to the diagnostic radiology residency program at the
University of Toronto are required to complete the Casper test (Altus Suite),
to assist with our selection process for the 2025 application cycle.

**How to Complete Casper**

You will be responsible for securing access to a laptop or computer with
webcam and audio capabilities. You will require the following for both account
creation and completing Casper:

  * Government-issued photo ID
  * Valid email address (same as the one you will use to submit your application)
  * Webcam
  * Microphone
  * Reliable internet connection

Please visit [www.TakeAltus.com](https://takealtus.com/) to sign up for Altus
Suite for Canadian Postgraduate Medical Education (CSP-20201- Canadian
Postgraduate Medical Education) after selecting Canada as the country which
the school you are applying to resides in.



  1. Register using your CARMS ID and a piece of government-issued photo ID.
  2. Select a Casper test date.
  3. Ensure that you register for your test at least 3 days before your preferred test date and time.
  4. Ensure you have selected CaRMS for distribution before the posted distribution deadline. The most up to date information can be found by browsing the [Test Dates and Times](https://takealtus.com/dates-times/) on [com](https://takealtus.com/).
  5. Please forward any inquiries on Altus Suite to [support@altus.as](mailto:support@altus.as).

**More about Casper**

The Casper test comprises 12 sections of videos and written scenarios.
Following each scenario, you will be required to answer a set of probing
questions under a time contract. The test typically takes between 75-90
minutes to complete. Each response is graded by a different rater, giving a
very robust and reliable view of personal and professional characteristics
important to our program. No studying is required for Casper, although you may
want to familiarize yourself with the test structure at
[TakeAltus.com](https://takealtus.com/), and ensure you have a quiet
environment to take the test. We strongly urge you to take advantage of the
12-section practice test, which will ensure you meet the technical
requirements to access and complete the test.

Casper test results are valid for one admissions cycle. Applicants who have
already taken the test in previous years will therefore be expected to re-take
it.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Applications to the program will only be accepted through CaRMS.  The program
will adhere to all deadlines outlined by CaRMS.  Please see below for required
documentation and selection criteria.  
  
In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three (3) reference letters from referees of the applicant's choice are
required. Only three (3) letters of reference will be accepted. If more than
three (3) letters are uploaded, only the first three (3) received will be
reviewed.

References should be obtained from clinicians who know you well and have
worked directly with you. They should be able to comment on your medical
knowledge, clinical skills and engagement, professionalism, attitude and
ability to work effectively in a team. The referee should be able to compare
your performance to the standard expected for your level of training, or other
students they have worked with. Letters from senior residents or fellows will
not be accepted.

The references must be dated within the last two (2) years.

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

A personal letter should include a brief summary of your personal background
and interests as well as why you have chosen to pursue a career in Medical
Imaging at the University of Toronto. This letter can contain any additional
information about you that is not captured in your CV that you feel is
relevant to the file review committee.  
  
_Important Note: Please address any gaps in training or remediation periods in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count._

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

It is expected that the CaRMS application and all required supporting
documents will be available at the time of file review opening. Any
applications which are missing the required documentation will be considered
incomplete. Shortly after their on-line availability, the applications will be
distributed to members of the Admissions Committee for independent review. Any
documents which are received subsequent to this date will not be considered.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 28, 2025
  * January 29, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held on January 28 & 29,
2025 via Zoom, with details to follow at the time of the interview offer.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: It is expected that you will have 3
interviews with a mix of the Program Director, faculty representatives and
residents. In addition to this, you will have 1 interview that is structured
as an OSCE with a resident examiner. Those candidates who are selected by our
Admissions Committee to be interviewed will be contacted by e-mail.
Unfortunately, we are unable to invite all applicants for an interview.
Candidates who have not been selected for interview will also be informed.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

Our mandate is to prepare our Residents to become highly competent
radiologists who are valued members of the larger health care delivery team.
Our goal is to promote the next generation of clinical radiologists,
educators, researchers, innovators, leaders and patient advocates in medical
imaging.

Our resident body represents medical graduates from across the country, as
well as international medical graduates and sponsored trainees. Our program
looks for new and innovative ways to provide a compassionate, supportive and
positive environment in education, research and clinical experience.

As the largest Diagnostic Radiology Residency Program in Canada, we have the
resources to provide the most dynamic and comprehensive educational, clinical
and research programs possible. Throughout your rotations, you will see and
learn about a wide variety of medical pathologies, unique to our large
program.

## Selection process goals

Our program is seeking motivated, professional, enthusiastic, and dependable
trainees who enjoy caring for patients, and work well with Medical Imaging
colleagues and other team members.

Our program values the importance of equity, diversity and inclusion and seek
candidates who will contribute to the diverse background and interests or our
current trainees.

We are seeking candidates who demonstrate outstanding academic achievement, an
enthusiastic willingness to learn and excellent interpersonal and professional
skills. We seek those who demonstrate a readiness to bring a positive attitude
to our working and learning environment, who will enhance our culture of
collaboration, teamwork and support as we build a culture of well-being for
all residents and colleagues.

## File review process

Review team composition : Program director, selected faculty leads

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We look for well-rounded candidates with strengths in all areas.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Electives in radiology demonstrate interest in the field.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Required for CPSO licensure.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of well-rounded individuals, demonstrating interest in community involvement and service to others.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of excellence, high level of professionalism, work ethic and collegiality.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Reviewed to discern medical school performance.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Reviewed for ability to address the required questions (see under required documents), originality and written communication.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  References reviewed for medical knowledge, clinical skills, engagement, professionalism, attitude & ability to work effectively in a team.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Reviewed   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Scores not specifically reviewed because of variable grading practices. Narrative comments may be reviewed.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We recognized there may be financial barriers in pursuing onsite electives and
therefore, lack of an onsite elective does not negatively impact the file
review.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence of teamwork during medical school, extracurricular activities.   
Collegiality |  Evidence of ability to work effectively in multidisciplinary teams.   
Communication skills |  Evidence of effective communication skills.   
Health advocacy |  Evidence of patient-centred care.   
Interest in the discipline |  Evidence of genuine interest and insight into the discipline.   
Interest in the program |  Evidence of genuine interest in the program and the stated goals.   
Leadership skills |  Evidence of leadership skills.   
Professionalism |  Evidence of reflection in response to questions and conducts professional interactions with interviewers and administrative team.   
Scholarly activities |  Evidence of reflection in response to questions; any applicable answers will be assessed by interviewers.   
Other interview component(s) |  The interview may contain an evaluation of visual detection and visual-spatial skills  
Ability of the candidate to manage a work-life balance, stressful situations
while maintaining collegiality and self-reflection.  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Diagnostic Radiology Residency Program at the University of Toronto is
fully accredited by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.
Our mandate is to prepare our Residents to become highly competent
radiologists who are valued members of the larger health care delivery team.
Our goal is to create the next generation of clinical radiologists, educators,
researchers, innovators, leaders, and patient advocates in medical imaging.

As the largest Diagnostic Radiology Residency Program in Canada, we have the
resources to provide the most dynamic and comprehensive educational, clinical
and research programs possible. Our Program operates within eight core
hospitals, and multiple affiliated hospitals and institutions within the
Greater Toronto Area. All of our training sites operate with state-of-the-art
imaging equipment, PACS and communication systems.

As a radiology resident, you will have the unique opportunity to experience a
wide variety of practice models within our affiliated teaching sites, ranging
from community hospitals to dedicated world-class cancer, cardiac, transplant,
neuroscience, trauma and paediatric centres. Throughout your rotations, you
will see and learn about a wide variety of medical pathologies, unique to our
large program. All of our clinical faculty are fellowship-trained
subspecialists who are dedicated to providing the highest level of service to
our patients as well as our clinical colleagues. As Radiologists, we are well
integrated into the functioning of our healthcare delivery teams.

At the University of Toronto, our Diagnostic Radiology Residency Program
unifies the best clinical, educational and research opportunities possible.
The strongest characteristic of our Residency Program, however, is its culture
of resident empowerment, resident responsibility, and resident accountability.
Our resident community values professionalism, and    mutual respect. As a
graduate of the Diagnostic Radiology Program at the University of Toronto, you
will become leaders in our profession and proud alumni of your Diagnostic
Radiology Residency Program!

**Social Highlights**

Our Diagnostic Radiology Residency Program seeks to create a positive learning
and work environment, with a culture of inclusivity, teamwork and well-being
for all trainees and colleagues. We therefore support our resident body
through the Social & Wellness Committee, a subcommittee of the RPC. This
committee has representatives across all years of training and is responsible
for promoting wellness initiatives, organizing social events, and creating a
community within our program.

We are seeking candidates who demonstrate outstanding academic achievement, an
enthusiastic willingness to learn and excellent interpersonal and professional
skills. We seek those who demonstrate a readiness to bring a positive attitude
to our working and learning environment, who will enhance our culture of
collaboration, teamwork, and support as we build a culture of well-being for
all residents and colleagues.

Beyond developing a supportive resident environment that promotes teamwork,
professionalism and collaboration, we encourage resident participation in
local and global health initiatives that highlight our social responsibility
towards our patients and the populations that we serve.

Academic Resources

  * Access to RadPrimer/StatDx
  * Access to the University of Toronto Organ Imaging Conference
  * Leadership course for all PGY4s
  * Emergency Radiology Simulation for all PGY2s
  * Research course for all residents
  * American Institute for Radiologic Pathology membership (AIRP)
  * Twice annual OSCE and Mock Oral Exams
  * Annual ACR Exam
  * Dedicated rotation of Body MRI
  * Dedicated rotation of Forensic Radiology at the Forensic Services & Coroner’s Complex
  * Dedication rotation of Head & Neck
  * Procedural experience at the Biopsy Centre & on Community Rotations (includes prostate bx, soft tissue bx and solid liver biopsies)

**About Us**

CaRMS Video:

<https://play.library.utoronto.ca/b47aba4f9486cf11c5eddafb50b639bb>

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Our residency program is typically 5 years in length.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

All Diagnostic Radiology residency programs in Canada started their transition
to [Competence by Design
(CBD)](https://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e) in
July 2022. CBD focuses on:

  * Shift from time-based model to competence-based medical education
  * Time is a resource, not a requirement
  * Progression occurs when competence is attained
  * Training focuses on skills required of a radiologist for successful entry into practice
  * Progression requires demonstration of relevant competencies
  * Most residents will require 5 years to complete the relevant competencies and training experiences.

Further information regarding entrustable professional activities, rotation
plans and additional resources can be found on the Diagnostic Radiology CBD
page [here](https://medical-imaging.utoronto.ca/cbd-dr). Transition to
Discipline (PGY1)

The Transition to Discipline (PGY1) includes a mixture of clinical rotations
(eg. Emergency Medicine, Internal Medicine, Obstetrics & Gynecology and
Surgery) and radiology (eg. Computed Tomography & Chest Imaging). During some
clinical rotations, residents will have an additional half day off clinical
duties in order to shadow Radiology faculty from the relevant discipline to
provide PGY1s with early exposure to specialties.

Foundations of Discipline, Core of Discipline & Transition to Practice
(PGY2-5)

The rotation schedule is based on the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons
of Canada requirements for training in Diagnostic Imaging. The rotations are
distributed throughout 4 years of radiology training, allowing the resident to
gain graded responsibility in each area as well as taking on an increasing
consultative role.

Our residents participate in radiology call with varying frequency in PGY2-5.

**Academic Half Day Curriculum**

Our Residents benefit from a comprehensive and adaptable Academic Half Day
(AHD) curriculum that includes a combination of didactic lectures, interactive
demonstration sessions, and on-line modules.

Our AHD curriculum also include attendance to all Visiting Professors
lectures, which are organized centrally by the Department of Medical Imaging
for all faculty and trainees. This provides our trainees with an excellent
avenue to create networks and learn from external faculty.

In the PGY2, residents will partake in the Spring Lecture Series, a call
readiness program in which the senior residents will coach junior residents
through material they are likely to encounter when on call.

The program also runs two (-2) annual retreats per academic year, one in the
summer and one in the winter; typically these retreats include a mixture of
academic lectures, workshops and community building activities for our
resident body.

**Research**

All of our residents participate in Medical Imaging research, with an
introduction through a dedicated research course and workshop. As our
residents learn to become Medical Imaging investigators, each resident will
have the opportunity to work with our world-class researchers and become a
member of one of our unique research groups. In the PGY5 all residents get a
full academic day every two (2) weeks to work on their research project, due
at the end of their training.

All residents are required to present their research project in either their
PGY4 or PGY5 at the Department of Medical Imaging Resident Research Day. All
residents must attend this event throughout their training.



* * *

# Training Sites

Mount Sinai Hospital

Saint Michael’s Hospital

Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre

The Hospital for Sick Children

The Princess Margaret Hospital

Toronto General Hospital

Toronto Western Hospital

Women’s College Hospital

Residents will also spend time at our affiliated Community Hospitals and the
Ontario Forensics Services & Coroner’s Complex  
  

For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>

* * *

# Additional Information

  1. **Permanent Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education office in order to comply with the current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry.
  2. **Matched applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data file to the matched university’s postgraduate education office. The postgraduate office will share the information as needed, but not limited to the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:**  The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure to meet or provide proof**  of any of the stated requirements may result in the applicant file not being reviewed and removed.

* * *

# FAQ

**_Q: What qualities does your program look for in a potential resident?_**

A: We are seeking candidates who demonstrate outstanding academic achievement,
an enthusiastic willingness to learn and excellent interpersonal and
professional skills. We seek those who demonstrate a readiness to bring a
positive attitude to our working and learning environment, who will enhance
our culture of collaboration, teamwork and support as we build a culture of
well-being for all residents and colleagues.

**_Q: Will participation in a research project make me more competitive as a
candidate?_**

A: Not necessarily; our program takes a holistic approach when reviewing
applications and does not focus on any one part specifically.

**_Q: Are there opportunities for residents to teach?_**

A: There are many opportunities for residents to teach both at the
undergraduate and postgraduate level. This includes at the Undergraduate and
Postgraduate level. PGY4 residents are required to teach at the PGY2 Summer
Lecture Series. There are many other opportunities oﬀered in the program and
through other postgraduate programs.

**_Q: How do you provide ongoing evaluation feedback to residents?_**

A: With the launch of CBD, trainees entering the program after July 2022 are
expected to complete 2 entrustable professional activities per week. These
evaluations provide residents with timely feedback regarding their
performance. In addition to this, residents are formally assessed at the end
of each rotation..  Residents are also evaluated several times throughout each
academic year with our two annual OSCE’s, two annual Mock Oral exams, and the
annual ACR Exam. PGY2s are required to partake in the Emergency Radiology
Online Simulator, designed to assess readiness for independent call.

A Multisource Feedback Evaluation is completed at least once during residency
and Residents are required to submit a CanMEDS portfolio yearly. Residents
meet with the Program Director every 6 months or more frequently as needed.

**_Q: Is there dedicated time provided for research?_**

A: Residents in PGY4-5year are given a biweekly full academic day to make
progress on their research project.

**_Q: Do most residents pursue a fellowship and are they accepted to
competitive fellowships?_**

A: Approximately 98% of our graduating residents pursue a fellowship. Almost
all residents are accepted to the fellowship program of their choice, most of
which are competitive fellowships in the United States and Canada.

**_Q: How do you prepare your PGY5 residents for the Royal College
examinations?_**

A: Our residents are well-trained to sit their Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Canada examination. Our faculty provide dedicated board
preparation and coaching sessions to all PGY5 residents starting in November
of the PGY5 year.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27146?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27146