#  University of British Columbia - Neurology - Pediatric - Vancouver

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 20, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. James Lee  

Address Neurology  
4480 Oak Street  
Room K3-180  
Vancouver, BC V6H 3V5 , British Columbia, V6H 3V4  

Work  604-875-2121

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Neurology - Department of Pediatrics
](http://pediatrics.med.ubc.ca/divisions-centres/neurology/)  
[ Neurosciences Program ](http://www.bcchildrens.ca/our-services/hospital-
services/neurosciences)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. James Lee

Title: Program Director, Division of Neurology

Email: james.lee@cw.bc.ca

Phone: 604-875-2121

  

Name: Patrice Pringle

Title: Program Administrator

Email: pediatrics.neuro@ubc.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please note that there will be one CaRMS CMG position available for this year.

Please note that in view of the COVID 19 pandemic, there will be no bias
against applicants who have not been able to complete electives at UBC.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three references from supervisors who know you well, at least two of these
from pediatricians or neurologists. One reference may be from a senior
resident, chief resident, or fellow, though this is optional.​

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

A personal letter is required to include student background, career goals,
reason for choice of pediatric neurology (1000 words or less).

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 29, 2025

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Candidates will be short listed and
invited to interview. Candidates will be interviewed by a subcommittee of the
Residency Training Committee and 2 pediatric neurology residents. There wil be
3 interviews: 2 with faculty and 1 with residents.  All interviews will be
conducted virtually and a link to a virtual tour of BC Children's Hospital
will be provided.  
  
Applicants offered an interview will be invited to a virtual Social event to
meet the current residents and faculty which will be held the prior to
interview day.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates with the following qualities will be given priority:  
\- Strong academic record with demonstration of special proficiency in
subjects related to the study of neurology and child neurology.  
\- Demonstrated interest in pediatric neurology either through elective
experience or related experience (e.g. research projects).  
\- Good clinical skills with strong communication and interpersonal skills.  
\- Indications of maturity, empathy and sensitivity.  
\- Interest and experience in research.

## Program goals

At UBC, we are committed to training physicians who will ultimately be serving
our population.

Residents in our program are expected to demonstrate clinical and academic
excellence, exceptional interpersonal and teamwork skills, research
experience, and a sense of responsibility and dedication to the profession.
Residents are expected to be active community members and demonstrate balance
as evidenced by engagement in volunteer, extracurricular or other types of
activities.

At UBC, we rely on the entire province for training. Therefore, the ability to
complete rotations 'away' from your home base is expected.

## Selection process goals

Identify applicants interest in Pediatric Neurology, and those who will
develop into exceptional Pediatric Neurologists.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability to interact appropriately
with patients, colleagues, and healthcare team members alike.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated attributes highlighted in the
CanMEDS 2015 roles.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability and enthusiasm to learn and
are able to adapt to the various demands of residency training.

Identify applicants who have a sincere interest to serve British Columbians.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team is composed of the program director,
4 faculty and the program administrator.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Research, publications, electives   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Clinical evaluations (in particular those from our specialty)   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Relevant examinations.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering (medical and non medical) and mentoring   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Holding office in a student government, club or organization   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstrated interpersonal skills   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in discipline, program location, desire to serve British Columbians   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interaction with colleagues and patients. Interest in discipline.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in participating in future research projects   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high-quality patient care through working in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Behavior, attitude, ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak and write in English and communicate effectively   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrated interest in advocacy.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated interest and ability in the specialty; evidence for compassion   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest program, setting, and serving British Columbians   
Leadership skills |  Ability to initiate programs, lead organizations or groups, and make an impact   
Professionalism |  Correspondence with staff and chief residents; behaviour during interview   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The UBC Pediatric Neurology Residency Program follows the Competency By Design
curriculum for incoming residents. The stages of training are as follows:

•Transition to residency stage

These 2 blocks will consist of orientation to the discipline and hospital,
curriculum of learning key skills in pediatrics and neurology, and ensuring
competencies to move forward in residency.

•Foundations stage

These 21 blocks will be mostly comprised of general pediatric training,
psychiatry, neurosurgery, research and pediatric neurology to establish the
foundation competencies for pediatric neurology.

•Core of discipline stage

These 34 blocks will address essential competencies that constitute the core
of pediatric neurology.  It will include 6 months of adult neurology and
rotations in neurophysiology, neuroradiology, neuropathology, epilepsy,
neonatal neurology, neuromuscular, community neurology, neuro-opthamology,
neuro genetics and neuro-oncology.

•Transition to practice stage

Approximately 8 blocks will be to prepare the trainee for readiness for
autonomous practice and will include functioning as a junior attending on the
ward and out-patient clinic and allow for flexibility for subspecialty
training.

Clinical pediatric neurology training consists of involvement in ambulatory
and inpatient services, which include emergency and intensive care
consultations.  We have a robust Telehealth, Virtual Health and Outreach
program to serve distant regions of British Columbia.



There is ample exposure to various subspecialties in pediatric neurology with
opportunity for students to explore personal subspecialty interests in greater
depth.

  
**Research**  
There are expectations that residents will have ongoing involvement in
scholarly projects leading to annual presentations at national/international
scientific meetings and publications. Residents are expected to report their
research progress periodically at the Division Research Rounds. Protected time
is available for research. There is a formal curriculum in clinical research
methods as part of organized teaching sessions. Strong opportunities for
clinical research exist through the residency program in each of the
subspecialty areas, with access to methods and biostatics support.  
  
**Seminars**  
All residents participate regularly at weekly Pediatric Neurology Rounds and
City-Wide Neuroscience Rounds. A weekly 4 hour course on principles of
neurology/basic neurosciences is provided in conjunction with the adult
neurology training program. There are numerous scheduled teaching sessions per
week, including neuroradiology, subspecialty neurology, video-EEG rounds, and
epilepsy surgery conference.  There are also joint Academic Half-days for all
Sub-Specialty Residents.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Resources**

Through affiliation with the University of British Columbia, British Columbia
Children's Hospital serves as the primary source of pediatric training in the
province.  

British Columbia Children's Hospital (BCCH) is the only tertiary care
pediatric hospital in British Columbia and serves a population of over 4
million.  

The state-of-the-art Teck Acute Care Centre, opened in the fall of 2017.   The
pediatric neurology service shares an inpatient ward with the pediatric
neurosurgery service. There is an epilepsy monitoring unit as part of the
inpatient service.   Here is a link to a video walk-though of the hospital
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VdWXDv16sgY>

The Ambulatory Care Building houses clinics in all pediatric specialties which
focus on secondary and tertiary level care.

Faculty have specialized expertise in a wide range of subspecialties in
pediatric neurology including epilepsy, neuromuscular diseases, neuro-
oncology, neurogenetics, neonatal neurology, stroke, neurophysiology, sleep
medicine, functional neuroimaging and epilepsy surgery.

A neurophysiology laboratory performs pediatric electroencephalography (EEG),
evoked potentials,  and electromyography (EMG) testing.

There is a neuroimaging facility with MRI (including functional MRI and 3T
research MRI), CT, ultransonography and SPECT, and special facilities for
advanced newborn brain imaging.  
  

**Affiliated Institutions**  
Sunny Hill Health Centre for Children is a rehabilitation/assessment centre
with specialty interest in cerebral palsy, visual impairment, developmental
disabilities and traumatic brain injury.  Sunny Hill is located on the main BC
Children's Hospital site.

Vancouver General Hospital and St. Paul's Hospital are adult teaching
hospitals which provide training in adult neurology. There is close
collaboration between the pediatric and adult neurology training programs with
combined teaching rounds, and academic half-day sessions.

There are comprehensive electronic medical resources and full computer
support, Medline, and PACS.

**Other Information**  
There are 15 hours of formal, organized teaching sessions/rounds per week in
addition to opportunities to attend joint PGME curriculum (Residents as
Teachers and Transition into Practice).  
  
The ratio of residents to faculty is 1:2.  
  
There are opportunities for interprovincial and international electives.  
  
There are no mandatory rural rotations but Outreach Clinics are strongly
encouraged.  
  
We provide our residents with access to electronic medical resources.

* * *

# Additional Information

The UBC Pediatric Neurology Program has developed a well-balanced program
utilizing both inpatient and ambulatory resources, with access to a wide
variety of clincal neurology and encouragement for research interests under
supervision from faculty.

Foundations stage residents participate in a research curriculum to encourage
and allow easy access for initiation of research projects.

Each resident is provided with an annual Resident Activity Fund.  Residents
can access these funds to attend and/or present at conferences, purchase
textbooks and offset other educational expenses during their training.

_**A little bit about Vancouver...**_

Vancouver is one of North America's most beautiful cities, hosting a natural
harbour, mountains, forests and beaches.  The city has a mild maritime
climate, yet it is in close proximity to snow-capped mountains and outdoor
winter activities.  The Pacific Ocean is most suited for sailing, sea-
kayaking, swimming, diving and windsurfing.  Vancouverites enjoy a vibrant,
multicultural city with a plethora of international restaurants.

Public transit is available throught the lower mainland by bus, seabus and
skytrain.  The Canada Line connects Richmond to downtown Vancouver and runs
along the Cambie Street Corridor.  From the stop at Cambie Street and West
King Edward Avenue, it is a 10 minute walk to BC Children's Hospital.
Travellers can take bikes on public transit.

Bicycling is a key year-round form of transport, with over 1,400 km of bike
routes throughout the Vancouver area.  

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27129?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27129