#  University of Ottawa - Urology - Ottawa  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 3 click here

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Jeff Warren  

Address Division of Urology  
The Ottawa Hospital, Civic Campus  
1053 Carling Avenue  
Ottawa, Ontario, K1Y 4E9  

Work  613-737-8899 ext. 73288

Websites of Interest [ uOttawa Urology Website
](https://www.uottawaurology.com/)  
[ https://med.uottawa.ca/surgery/divisions/urology
](https://med.uottawa.ca/surgery/divisions/urology)  
[ uOttawa Urology Twitter Page
](https://x.com/uottawaurology?s=11&t=PAPw_cZh4hZWFiKlinAi5g)  
[ uOttawa Urology Instagram Page
](https://instagram.com/uottawa.uro.residency?igshid=MzRlODBiNWFlZA==)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Jeffrey Warren

Title: Residency Program Director, Division of Urology

Email: jewarren@toh.ca

Phone: 613-798-5555 x73288

  

Name: Isabel Menard

Title: Program Administrator

Email: imenard@toh.ca

Phone: 613-798-5555 x10606

  

* * *

# Important Information

**All candidates must meet the Ontario Criteria of Eligibility**  found
[here](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-criteria/provincial-
criteria/ontario/).

**COVID-19 vaccination**

Please be aware that most, if not all, hospitals in Ontario have mandatory
COVID-19 vaccination policies in place that require, in the absence of a valid
medical or human rights exemption, proof of vaccination. Acceptable
vaccination must be in accordance with Health Canada. You will be required to
provide an attestation that you meet this requirement as part of the CaRMS
application process and any actual documentation will be collected by the
appropriate institution if matched. These guidelines could change at any time
in accordance with future direction from the Ministry of Health or the
Universities based on information from Public Health.

**MCCQE (Medical Council of Canada qualifying examination) Part 1 results** :

Trainees will be required to disclose their MCCQE Part 1 examination results
**if taken** , upon entry into any of the University of Ottawa's training
programs. **Please note that the MCCQE Part 1 is  not a requirement to begin
residency.** The purpose of this disclosure is to allow for resources to be
provided to the few residents who would benefit from extra support early in
their residency in an effort to maximize their success.

**Failure to meet or provide proof of any of the stated requirements may
result in an applicant’s file not being reviewed or removed from the Rank
Order List.**

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

All candidates must meet the Ontario criteria of eligibility
[https://www.carms.ca/match/msm/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/](https://www.carms.ca/match/msm/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/)

Please be sure you have reviewed and understood the requirements for your
application before submitting.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  * Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  * Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  * Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  * Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Reference letters from physicians of any discipline are acceptable. Reference
letters from residents or fellows are not acceptable. Late references will not
be considered.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Candidates may wish to describe important achievements, extracurricular
activities, personal goals during residency, etc.

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 8, 2025
  * February 9, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: The program will notify all applicants
through CaRMS Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants
selected for an interview.  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The Urology Residency Training
Program Selection Committee reviews all applications. A short list is
generated based on the review and these individuals are offered an interview.
Candidates who are successful at securing an interview will be notified by the
program. Decisions of the selection committee as to who is interviewed are
final. Interviews will be between 20-30 minutes in length. The interview team
includes the program director, faculty members and a resident representative.
The interview will be a single session where the candidate is present with all
members of the selection committee. Each interview is scored independantly by
each member of the committee using several objective metrics, and then a final
interview score is determined through the committee deliberation.  
  
Each component of the application package submitted by a candidate is reviewed
and scored individually, and then a composite score is generated to reflect
the entire application. Specific elements assessed in the file reivew include
reference letters, personal letters, CV, clinical experience in urology and/or
demonstrated interest in urology through other experiences, research and
teaching experience, written communication skills, academic performance based
on transcripts and performance records. Based on these scores an interview
list is generated and candidates are notified as described above. Elective
experience specifically in Urology at the University of Ottawa is NOT required
in order for an application to be reviewed and considered for an offer of
interview.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The candidates are selected based on a comprehensive assessment their
application (file review) and an interview. The processes followed for each of
these are described in the appropriate section of this Program Description.
The file review and interview score are combined in order to generate the
final rank order list.

## Program goals

Upon completion of training, a resident is expected to be a competent
specialist in Urology capable of assuming a consultant's role in the
specialty. Residents must acquire the knowledge, skills and attitudes relating
to gender, culture and ethnicity pertinent to Urology. In addition, all
residents must demonstrate an ability to incorporate gender, cultural and
ethnic perspectives in research methodology, data presentation and analysis.

During the course of the residency, the resident must acquire:

1- A working knowledge of the theoretical basis of the specialty, including
its foundations in the basic medical sciences and research. This may be done
concurrently with the resident attending special courses in basic science or
spending specific periods of full-time training in basic science related
activity.

2- An understanding of the normal function and the pathological processes and
diseases that affect the adrenal gland, the kidney, ureters, bladder urethra
in the male and female, and the prostate and external genitalia of the male.
This includes an understanding, appropriate to the practice of Urology, of
normal development and embryology, biochemistry and pharmacology, physiology,
anatomy and gross and microscopic pathology of genitourinary tract.

3- The requisite knowledge, skills and attitudes for effective patient-
centered care and service of a diverse population. In all aspects of a
specialist's practice, the graduate must be able to address issues of gender,
age culture and ethnicity. All this must be performed in an ethical and
professional manner. Because patient care is a shared responsibility in the
Canadian health care system, a close, integrated and collaborative
relationship with primary care physicians is essential. There also needs to be
a collaborative relationship with specialists in all fields of surgery,
medicine, laboratory medicine, radiology, rehabilitation medicine and social
services.

## Selection process goals

\- Excellent academic record

\- Proven interest in Urology

\- High level of professionalism and ethical practice

\- Collegial personality

\- Demonstration of initiative, self-direction and ability to perform within a
team setting

\- Demonstration of engagment in life-long learning/self-directed learning

\- Honesty and integrity

\- Ability to participate in academic endeavours such as research and teaching
for the puroposes of both learning and contribution to the urologic community
as a whole

## File review process

Review team composition : The Residency Training Program Selection Committee
consists of the program director; program administrator, faculty members and a
resident representative.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Educational background, elective experience, research experience, extracurriculars, work experience   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Breadth of electives in a variety of disciplines AND some urology-specific electives and/or similar clinical experiences (selectives, observerships, etc.)   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of interests outside of medicine that contribute to personal fulfillment and wellness   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of previous experience in leadership positions, leadership philosophy   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evidence of strong academic performance   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Clear explanation and justification for interest in Urology as a career   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Attestation from supervisors concerning suitability of candidate for a career in urology   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Participation in academic research (not necessarily urology-specific)   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Overall academic performance and successful completion of all pre-requisites   
Other file component(s) |  A standard data collection form is utilized to tabulate and score all components listed above for each candidate individually and then in aggregate. Based on the entire file review and final score, a decision is made whether or not to offer an interview.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

At the University of Ottawa Urology Residency Training Program, we believe the
best residents are those who have been able to explore the breadth of the
medical profession through suitable electives while enrolled in medical
school. We do not preferentially rank applicants who have only pursued
electives in one discipline or sub-discipline. We support the concept that
students should do a minimum of at least 2 week electives in 3 different
specialties.  It is however essential that applicants have at least some prior
experience in urology through elective experience(s) or other clinical
experiences in urology such as selectives/observerships to allow for the
candidate and program to make an informed decision about suitability for a
career/training in urology.  

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Approach to teamwork assessed with use of pre-determined scenario question   
Collegiality |  Generally assessed throughout interview, Assessed through use of pre-determined scenario question   
Communication skills |  Generally assessed throughout interview based on overall clarity of answers to all questions   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrates knowledge of situations where advocacy is appropriate; assessed through review of CV   
Interest in the discipline |  Assessed using standard interview question re: motivation to pursue urology, CV/file/PL review   
Interest in the program |  Assessed through specific question re: candidates interest in and fit with U or O urology   
Leadership skills |  Prior leadership experience and leadership philosophy discussed   
Professionalism |  Evidence of professional behaviour based on discussion of LORs, pre-determined scenario question   
Scholarly activities |  Assessed through specific question concerning previous experience in research and/or education   
Other interview component(s) |  The interview is conducted by the residency training program selection committee. We utilize a semi-structured interview format with a variety of pre-determined questions (which may involve scenarios for discussion). The questions are designed to address each of the components listed above. Responses to each question are individually graded by each member of the committee using a Likert scale, and then a final grade for each response is determined through committee discussion following the interview. There is also an "open format" or unstructured component to the interview to allow the committee and applicant to address any additional areas not covered previously, to allow for clarification of points previously raised, and to allow for candidates to ask questions of the committee. Following the interview all components are graded and a final composite score is generated. The interview score is utilized along with the results of the file review to determine final position of the rank order list.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Urology Residency Training Program exemplifies what it is to have a tight
knit family atmosphere amongst residents and staff physicians. The program has
always prioritized the overall educational, clinical surgical training as we
all the overall well-being of each resident.

First time success at the Royal College Surgical Foundations and Final
Speciality Certification Examinations is above the national average.

Excellent working relationships with interventional radiologists, oncologists
and uro-pathologists augment the teaching and clinical environment.

Residents selected to the Ottawa residency training program must have strong
interpersonal and communication skills, empathy and integrity and must fit
into the collegial mold of the program.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Beginning in July 2018 the Ottawa Urology Program (and all other Urology
programs in Canada) adopted the Competence By Design (CBD) Framework from the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.  Within CBD there is a
Competence Continuum that organizes residency into 4 Stages of Training:
Transition to Discipline, Foundations of Discipline, Core of Discipline, and
Transition to Practice.  The existing curriculum from prior years has been
reviewed and adapted to the new CBD framework to ensure that residents achieve
competence in all of the Entrustable Professional Activities (EPAs) required
of a practicing urologist.  All teaching and assessment has been reviewed and
modified as needed to achieve this goal.

For practical purposes of scheduling and rotation planning, residency is still
divided into 5 PGY years, although the CBD Stages of training do not
necessarily correspond exactly to the PGY levels.  Although under the CBD
model length of training is not necessarily fixed to a specific duration for
all residents, it is anticipated that the length of training for Urology
Residency at the University of Ottawa will be 5 years. Training may be
extended if residents do not achieve all EPAs and competencies by the end of 5
years.  Shorter length of training is in theory possible under CBD, although
would likely only be feasible in exceptional circumstances.

Stages of Training

**Transition to Discipline (TTD)**

This stage of training occurs primarily during the first 2 months of residency
during the PGY-1 year.  Residents rotate on Adult Urology for Blocks 1-2.
There is a Urology Bootcamp during this stage that includes both didactic
teaching sessions and skills labs in addition to a general orientation to the
concepts of CBD and the assessment platform used at the University of Ottawa
(Elentra).

**Foundations of Discipline**

This stage of training occurs roughly during the PGY 1-2 years.  During the
PGY-1 year residents complete 4 blocks of Adult Urology (in addition to the 2
Adult urology Blocks during TTD) and 2 Blocks of Pediatric Urology.  One of
the Urology Blocks in PGY-1 is designated as a "urology clinics" block.  The
remaining blocks are spent on general surgery, ICU, ER, and Nephrology.

The PGY-2 year consists of 6 blocks of adult urology, 1 block of community
urology (elective), 2 blocks of Vascular Surgery,2 blocks of ICU and 2 blocks
of general surgery.

The rotations during PGY 1-2 have been designed to provide overall
comprehensive surgical training, to allow residents to achieve competence in
all applicable Urology EPAs, and to allow for completion of all EPAs required
for Surgical Foundations.  Currently the rotation plan does allow our
residents to be American Board Eligible.

**Core**

This stage of training occurs roughly during the PGY 3-4 years and first half
of PGY-5.

PGY-3 consists of 3 blocks of pediatric urology and the remainder in adult
urology.  Residents rotate through all teaching sites and services to obtain a
comprehensive exposure to all facets of urology.

PGY-4 consists of adult urology rotations.  Up to 2 blocks can be used as
electives.  Electives can be arranged at a variety of locations either within
Canada or abroad.  1 of the 3 elective blocks can be utilized as a research
elective for motivated residents with a defined research agenda.

PGY-5 consists of adult urology rotations including time spent as a Chief
administrative resident.  In addition there is an option for 1 Block of
electives similar to PGY-4.

**Transition to Practice (TTP)**

This stage of training occurs roughly during the final 3-6 months of PGY-5.
Residents will continue to rotate on adult urology, although will focus their
learning on acquiring additional skills required of a practicing urologist.

Research

The Division of Urology has a Director of Resident Research who oversees all
resident research activity and projects.  Residents are expected to have at
least one ongoing research project at all times. At the beginning of each
academic year there is a Resident Research Brainstorming session where new
research ideas are discussed. Residents will typically select a project in
their area of interest and will work with a faculty mentor. Projects are
sometimes proposed by the faculty, but residents may certainly generate their
own research ideas.

The Division of Urology holds an Annual Resident Research Day in the Spring.
At this all day event residents present their research projects, and a
visiting professor provides mentorship and adjudication or research projects.
Three projects are selected for presentation at the annual Department of
Surgery Research Day (Collins Day).

The Division of Urology has several faculty members who have dedicated
research time and publish extensively. Several faculty members have specific
training in clinical epidemiology. In addition, the academic teaching session
includes several sessions on research methodology and epidemiology.

Residents are encouraged to present their research projects and national and
international academic meetings and submit their work for publication.
Financial support is provided for conference registration and travel.

Academic Schedule

During the academic year, every Monday afternoons is dedicated for resident
teaching / academic sessions from 1:00-5:00pm. These sessions are based on a
two year cycle and every 2 years cover the most current edition of Campbell's
Urology in its entirety.  All residents, including the PGY-1 and -2 residents,
are required to attend the sessions and the time required to do so has been
deemed protected time by the Program Director. The current academic year
beginning July 2024 will cover the 12th edition of Campbell's Urology. The
sessions are based on CanMEDS 2015 criteria and each session is presented in
the context of the 7 Roles within CanMEDS.

In addition to the Monday afternoon education sessions, the program has a
comprehensive surgical simulation curriculum. Throughout the academic year, a
variety of labs are offered, targeted to specific training level, with the
objectives of introducing new skills to residents in a safe, low pressure
environment. Low-ratio mentorship with faculty members during these labs
allows for residents to ask questions and receive feedback.

For the PGY4 and PGY5 residents, formalized in-service exam preparation
sessions are offered.

Service rounds occur every Wednesday morning during the academic year. A
rotating schedule of topics includes M&M rounds, Interesting Case rounds,
presentation of current clinical practice guidelines, and topic-based
presentations. The majority of these topics are presented by residents to the
entire resident and faculty group.

There are approximately 10 Journal Clubs per year that cover current
urological publications from a broad spectrum of journals, including the
Journal of Urology. Attending these sessions are staff and residents, with
discussion of both research methodology/critical appraisal as well as
content/clinical relevance.

A Surgical Skills curriculum has been developed and implemented by the urology
program. This includes approximately 12 labs, each focused on a particular
skillset and geared towards a specific training level. Examples include basic
endoscopic skills/TUR, porcine labs to teach laparoscopic nephrectomy/partial
nephrectomy, and PCNL simulation labs. The main objectives of these labs are
to introduce new skills to residents in a safe, low pressure environment. Low-
ratio mentorship with faculty during these labs allows for residents to ask
questions and receive feedback.

Assessment and Evaluation

Under the new CBD framework assessment is carried out on an ongoing basis
utilizing the concept of work-based assessments. Assessment and feedback is
focused on the EPAs and Milestones for each stage of training. The University
of Ottawa has adopted an electronic platform called Elentra that contains all
of the assessment forms required for each stage of training, EPA, and
Milestone.  Essentially, this is a mobile platform that residents use to
distribute assessment forms to faculty (and more senior residents) after
completion of a particular task (OR case, clinical encounter, etc.).  Ideally,
these assessment forms are completed "in the moment" by the supervisor in
order to provide timely feedback to the resident to enhance learning and to
provide the most accurate reflection of current performance.  

There are in-service examinations twice per year for all senior residents,
which consist of short answer questions and Objective Structured Clinical
Examinations (OSCE) stations. The OSCE examinations are CanMEDS based, with
the stations evaluating specific CanMEDS Roles, including Medical Expert. In
November each year, all urology residents write the AUA in-service exam, which
is funded by the program. Senior residents attend the annual Canadian review
course and QUEST exam.

Once per academic year, residents will participate in the PULSE 360 multi-
source feedback program. All residents at the University of Ottawa, regardless
of specialty, participate in this program. PULSE 360 is an anonymous, web-
based survey that allows residents to receive feedback from their supervisors,
resident colleagues, and allied health co-workers in order to promote self-
awareness, encouragement, early identification of areas in need of attention,
and improvement.  The Program Director has one-on-one meetings with each
resident to review their report, provide feedback, and establish excellence
goals.

An in-training assessment report (ITAR) will be completed after each rotation
in addition to the ongoing assessment through Elentra. This is a summary type
evaluation form that will allow the preceptor to provide an overall summary of
performance on a given rotation.  In addition, each resident will have an end-
of-rotation meeting with the main rotation supervisor in order to discuss the
rotation as a whole.

All assessments will be reviewed by the Competency Committee. This committee
has the task of reviewing all assessments received by a resident and
determining when progression to the next stage of training will occur. Each
resident will have a faculty academic advisor or mentor who sits on this
committee to act as a liaison with regards to the outcome of each meeting.

Residents will each have semi-annual meetings with the Residency Training
Program Committee and Program Director in order to review general progress,
address questions or concerns, discuss career planning, rotation planning,
elective planning, and research.

Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada: Applying competency-based
practices to residency education

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/competence-design-e), aims to enhance
patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving
patient needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education
process.

CBD will use [time as a
framework](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e)
rather than the basis for progression. It is not anticipated that the duration
of training will change for the majority of trainees. Residency programs will
be broken down into
[stages](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/documents/cbd/cbd-competence-
continuum-diagram-legal-e.pdf), and each stage will have a series of
milestones based on required competencies. These milestones will create more
targeted learning outcomes and involve more frequent, formative assessments
within the clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving
feedback on the skills they need.

The Royal College anticipates that all specialty and subspecialty programs in
Canada will adopt CBD in gradual phases. All disciplines have been divided
into seven cohort groups, each of which will adopt CBD at different times.
Urology programs in Canada have all implemented CBD for incoming PGY-1
residents as of July 1, 2018.  Residents enrolled in the Urology Program prior
to this date are not taking part in CBD.

Please visit the [Proposed CBD Rollout
Schedule](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/implementation/proposed-cbd-
rollout-schedule-e) to find out when residents entering into Urology could
potentially experience CBD.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and
traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification. Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs
will include the completion of a Royal College examination; however, residents
in CBD programs will also be assessed against program milestones throughout
their training. Within a CBD program, all milestones (documented within an
electronic portfolio) and the Royal College examination must be successfully
completed to achieve certification.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

* * *

# Training Sites

1\. The Ottawa Hospital - Civic Campus: Busy general urological service also
providing subspecialty expertise in andrology/andropause, male factor
infertility, reconstructive urology, neuro-urology and urodynamics,
incontinence, open radical prostatectomy and stone disease.

2\. The Ottawa Hospital - Riverside Campus: The extra corporeal shockwave
lithotripter is located at the Riverside Campus. Residents will have the
opportunity to train in ESWL.  In addition, there is an outpatient OR most
days of the week where residents will participate in minor and endoscopic
urologic procedures including TURBT, Ureteroscopy, scrotal surgery, and
Bipolar/Green Light Laser TURP

3\. The Ottawa Hospital - General Campus: Busy general urological service also
providing urologic oncology, robotic surgery, living-related and cadaveric
renal transplantation, endourology and stone disease including PCNL,
laparoscopic surgery and clinical epidemiology.

4\. Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO): There are two full-time
pediatric urologists on staff making this an excellent experience for
residents. All pediatric urological diagnostic and surgical procedures for
Eastern Ontario are performed here.

5\. Regional Sites - there are several smaller hospitals in the periphery of
Ottawa (Hawkesbury, Renfrew, Almonte) where University of Ottawa Urologists
provide service to the local community via clinics and minor surgical/OR
procedures.  Residents attend these sites as part of their regular rotations
in order to gain some exposure to this unique environment.

* * *

# Additional Information

Career Counselling

The uOttawa Urology Residency Training Program is committed to career
counselling and support for all residents throughout their training.  

The process of career planning and counselling is longitudinal in nature and
evolves as the resident passes from PGY-1 to program completion. The objective
of the career planning/counselling process is to support each resident in
achieving their short and long-term career goals. To facilitate this, the
uOttawa Urology Program has developed a career-planning guide that includes
timelines, opportunities for career exploration through electives, mentorship,
and support for fellowship and job application. Career counselling is reviewed
formally twice per year during resident interviews with the Residency Program
Committee (RPC), but is also an ongoing process throughout the academic year.
The In-Training Assessment Report (ITAR), which is completed after each
rotation, includes a specific section concerning career counselling that
facilities regular review and discussion of the topic with faculty.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27399?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27399