#  McMaster University - Neurology - Pediatric - Hamilton

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Michelle Jaeggi  

Address Pediatrics  
McMaster University Medical Centre  
1280 Main Street West  
Hamilton, Ontario, L8S 4K1  

Work

Fax

Websites of Interest [ McMaster Pediatric Neurology Residency Program
](http://www.fhs.mcmaster.ca/pediatrics/pediatric_neurology_residency_program.html)  
[ HHS Epilepsy Program ](https://www.hamiltonhealthsciences.ca/share/up-close-
epilepsy-program/)  
[ https://www.hamiltonhealthsciences.ca/share/software-pediatric-epilepsy/
](https://www.hamiltonhealthsciences.ca/share/software-pediatric-epilepsy/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. David Callen

Title: Program Director

Email: dcallen@mcmaster.ca

Phone: (905)521-2100 ext 73392

  

Name: Program Administrator

Title: Program Administrator

Email: neuroped@mcmaster.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/).  It is important to review the
requirements carefully.

To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit:
<https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/>

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required.  Late reference letters will not be
accepted.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

This should outline the following: 1) reason for interest in pediatric
neurology, 2) strengths and weaknesses, 3) career goals, 4) interests outside
of medicine. Maximum length: 1000 words.

Custom Résumé / CV

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed.

Optional - will be reviewed

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 31, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: January 31st 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Candidates will be interviewed
virtually by faculty members of the Division of Pediatric Neurology, as well
as Pediatric Neurology trainee representatives, using a standardized format.
An optional social event will be scheduled the evening before and details
provided to the candidates .  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates with the following qualities will be given priority: 1) evidence of
acceptable academic achievement, particularly related to neurology and
pediatrics. 2) interest in pediatric neurology and the complimentary fields of
pediatrics and adult neurology as demonstrated by elective experience or
relevant previous exposure. 3) capacity for self-directed/problem based
learning. 4) exemplary communication and interpersonal skills. 5) interest in
working with children and families.

## Program goals

**Mission Statement**

"To maintain a flexible, well-rounded, life-style friendly learning
environment that allows trainees to pursue a variety of career paths, ranging
from community pediatric neurology to academic medicine"

**Program Goals**

The goals of the McMaster Pediatric Neurology Residency Training Program are:

  1. To provide trainees with a supportive, non-threatening learning environment
  2. To allow a balance between professional responsibilities and personal life
  3. To develop a individualized learning experiences to allow our residents to become either academic-based or community-based pediatric neurologists
  4. To ensure our graduates are well rounded with expertise in the intrinsic CanMEDS domains in addition to being Medical Experts
  5. To foster a desire to be active participants in Canadian child neurology community

## Selection process goals

In our selection process at McMaster University, we strive for the following:

  1. Non-prejudiced consideration of applicants of all races, cultures, genders, and geographical locations
  2. Equitable evaluation of students from all Canadian medical schools
  3. Timely notification of applicants about interview decisions

Our program is looking for applicants who will thrive in our learning
environment and become world class child neurologists.  We are interested in
working with individuals who are passionate about the brain and love to work
with children and have fun.  Given the complexity and continued growth of the
field, our residents must be able to assimilate and retrieve large amounts of
detailed information, such as neuroanatomical pathways, enzymes deficits
resulting in inborn errors of metabolism, and so on.  While this knowledge is
not at all necessary upon application, the ability to learn quickly and well
is assessed based on previous academic performance.  We also want residents
who are hard working, responsible, and willing to go above and beyond.
Successful applicants must show honesty, integrity, humility and self-
reflection skills.  Finally, we feel that it is very important for our
residents to have good communication skills, as these are important in many
aspects of the role of a pediatric neurologist (e.g., breaking bad news).

## File review process

Review team composition : Every applicant’s file is thoroughly reviewed by the
Program Director. Applicants selected for interviews are subsequently reviewed
by the interview team, comprised of Pediatric Neurology Faculty and Residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
Our program generally receives 10 – 15 applicants each year for 1 CMG
position. In the past, our applicants have displayed a variety of interests,
including: Pediatric Neurology, Adult Neurology, and General Pediatrics.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  
9-12 applicants are invited for interviews each year

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Interest in pediatric neurology, academic skills, work ethic, ability to work as part of a team   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Interest in pediatric neurology   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Interest in pediatric neurology, work ethic, ability to work as part of a team   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Work ethic, ability to work as part of a team   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic skills, work ethic   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in pediatric neurology, communication skills, and honesty/integrity   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Interest in pediatric neurology, work ethic, team work, communication   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in pediatric neurology, academic skills   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic skills, work ethic   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Applicants are encouraged to have had some previous elective exposure to
pediatric neurology, pediatrics, and adult neurology, but we also strongly
support having had a broad exposure to a variety of disciplines during
undergraduate training.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  The interview is comprised of three 20 minute components, as follows:  
  
Scenario Based Questions – candidates will speak with a team of 3-4
faculty/residents about how they would respond to various challenging
standardized scenarios  
  
CV Based Questions – candidates will speak with a team of 3-4
faculty/residents about interesting aspects of their submitted curriculum
vitae  
  
Meeting with Program Director – this is a non-evaluative opportunity for the
Program Director to meet individually with each candidate and explain the
highlights of the residency program at McMaster and answer questions  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Previous experiences working as part of a team   
Collegiality |  Feedback from other team members   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak eloquently and fluently during your interview   
Health advocacy |  Ability to advocate for colleagues and patients   
Interest in the discipline |  Explanation for your passion for the brain and for working with children   
Interest in the program |  Explanation of your reasons for McMaster Pediatric Neurology rather than other programs   
Leadership skills |  Previous experience as a leader in any capacity   
Professionalism |  Evaluation of your responses to ethical dilemmas   
Scholarly activities |  Experience in research or quality improvement projects   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights



McMaster Children’s Hospital has 142 acute care beds, including the NICU,
Level II Nursery, and PICU. There are approximately 3000 outpatient visits to
the pediatric neurology clinics each year. The mix of presenting problems and
patient socio-demographics is diverse, drawing from the regional referral base
of 2.2 million population in Central South Ontario. In addition to their
exposure to clinic patients during their pediatric neurology rotations and
during their own continuity clinics, Pediatric Neurology residents will have
the opportunity to consult on outpatients in other clinical services
(Hematology, Oncology, Neonatal Follow-Up, General Pediatrics) as well as in
the Emergency Department.

**Our Vision:**

"To maintain a flexible, well-rounded, life-style friendly learning
environment that allows trainees to pursue a variety of career paths, ranging
from community pediatric neurology to academic medicine"

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Transition to Discipline**

The first few blocks of training will provide our new residents with the
opportunity to achieve their first Entrustable Professional Activities (EPAs)
in a supportive, non-threatening environment.  Residents will begin as a
junior member of the neurology team seeing inpatient consults as well as
children in outpatient clinics.  At the same time, residents will complete a
“bootcamp” to gain all the basic skills for residency (e.g., Pediatric
Advanced Life Support, Neonatal Resuscitation Program, seminars on patient
privacy & confidentiality, patient safety, note writing, etc.).

**Foundations of Discipline**

This phase of training will expose our residents to children in many different
settings, including: outpatient, acute care, inpatient, and intensive care.
Residents will learn how to manage patients with common pediatric issues, gain
exposure to managing neurological emergencies, and will spend additional time
seeing child neurology patients developing an approach to common neurological
problems.

The residents will also participate in a 12 week block of structured self-
directed learning about the fundamentals of neuroanatomy and the
neurosciences.  This will consist of a mixture of independent study and
didactic sessions with neuroanatomy staff and neuroscientists.  The progress
of the resident will be assessed regularly through written and oral
examination.   **  
**

**Core of Discipline**

During the Core component of training, residents will spend their time in
pediatric neurology, pediatric neurology subspecialties (e.g., epilepsy,
neuromuscular, etc.), and related specialties (e.g., adult neurology,
developmental pediatrics, neurosurgery, palliative care, etc.).  The focus
will surround achieving competence in the core skills of a pediatric
neurologist.

Residents will be allotted time to focus on acquiring the detailed knowledge
necessary for successfully completing the Royal College certification
examination, which will occur at the end of this stage.

**Transition to Practice**

During their final stage of training, residents will be supported in their
task of learning how to function as an independent pediatric neurologist.  The
learning environment will be personalized to the resident’s unique career
trajectory.  That is, residents interested in pursuing a career in academia
will gain experience running a team, reviewing consults, teaching, providing
feedback, and mentoring.  Residents interested in community positions will
spend more time working with community pediatric neurologists in community
clinics and hospitals and focus on running an independent practice.

**Research**

Beginning early in training, residents will be annually allotted 4 weeks of
protected research time as well as a half-day every second week devoted to
research.  The expectation will be that a significant project will be
undertaken or multiple smaller projects will be created and progress will be
made throughout training.  For those residents not interested in pursuing
academic research, formal quality improvement projects or education projects
can be substituted.

**Seminars**

Residents attend the pediatric academic half-day during their first year of
training, and the combined adult/pediatric neurology half-day for the
remainder.  The neurology half-day sessions are comprised of case-based
tutorial style sessions covering aspects of both pediatric and adult neurology
supervised by relevant expert staff physicians.

In addition, residents participate in weekly and monthly seminars during their
various rotations (e.g., Pediatric Neurology Trainee Teaching, Brain Hour,
Neuromuscular Rounds, Neuroscience Rounds, etc.).

* * *

# Training Sites

McMaster Children’s Hospital has 142 acute care beds and serves a diverse
population, drawing from the regional referral base of 2.3 million population
in Central South Ontario.  There are approximately 3000 outpatient visits to
the pediatric neurology clinics each year.



A specific group of interest at McMaster is children with epilepsy.  Residents
will participate in our Complex Pediatric Epilepsy Program, which provides
intensive management for patients with intractable seizures.  This includes:
evaluation for epilepsy surgery, therapeutic diet management (e.g., ketogenic
diet), and vagus nerve stimulation therapy.  



Another exceptional component at McMaster University Medical Centre is the
state-of-the-art neuromuscular clinic.  This facility utilizes bench-to-
bedside neuromuscular analysis, with hundreds of muscle biopsies performed
each year.  It also includes a complete exercise laboratory.  Almost 1000
electromyographs and nerve conduction studies are done each year.

Training in other aspects of neurophysiology is also available, including EEG
and evoked potentials.



Developmental training will largely be completed at the new Ron Joyce
Children’s Centre, which is a multi-disciplinary outpatient rehabilitation
centre.  Residents will participate in specialty neurodevelopmental clinics,
such as spasticity clinic and botox clinic, as well as spend time in our
cutting-edge motion analysis laboratory.  



The hospitals that will provide training in adult neurology will include:
Hamilton General Hospital and Juravinski Hospital. Residents will gain
exposure to adult neurology through rotations on the clinical teaching unit,
in outpatient subspecialty clinics (e.g., stroke prevention, movement
disorders, headache, multiple sclerosis, ALS, etc.), and by participating in
“Code Stroke” consultations.



Finally, we are very fortunate to have had many of our graduating residents
set up practices in the nearby community.  Residents interested in community
pediatric neurology have ample opportunity to learn in multiple community
environments (e.g., solo outpatient/inpatient, shared outpatient, hybrid
neurology/development, etc.).



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26484?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26484