#  University of Ottawa - Radiation Oncology - Ottawa

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1 click here

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Joanne Meng  

Address Radiation Oncology Training Program  
Box 900  
501 Smyth Road  
Ottawa, Ontario, K1H 8L6  

(613) 737-7700 x 70240

(613) 737-7700 x 70210

Websites of Interest [ Radiation Oncology University of Ottawa
](https://med.uottawa.ca/radiology/divisions/radiation-oncology)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Madison Roberts

Title: Program Administrator

Email: madroberts@toh.on.ca

Phone: 613-737-7700 ext. 70240

  

* * *

# Important Information

All residents will be required to disclose their MCCQE1 examination results
upon entry into any of the University of Ottawa's training programs. The
purpose of this disclosure is to allow for resources to be provided to the few
residents who would benefit from extra support early in their residency in an
effort to maximize their success.

* * *

# Return of Service

Ontario's International Medical Graduate (IMG) Return of Service (ROS) program
is intended to improve access to physician services across Ontario,
particularly in areas with limited physician supply.  The IMG ROS program
offers participants a postgraduate medical training position in return for a
commitment to practise medicine in an eligible Ontario community. The ROS
contract is between the Ministry of Health and the successful applicant, and
is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm eligibility with respect to
ROS requirements of other provinces. Ontario PGME offices are not involved in
this process.  

The Ministry requests all ROS agreements before July 1 of the year they were
matched. All agreements should be returned to the Ministry prior to the start
of residency training.

More information for IMG ROS can be found here: [Return of Service
Program](https://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/hhrsd/physicians/international_medical_graduates.aspx)

If you have further questions, please contact the Ministry of Health at
[PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca](mailto:PPUProgramOfficer@ontario.ca)  

**PLEASE NOTE: APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO FULLFILL A ROS COMMITMENT IN ONTARIO
IMMEDIATELY UPON COMPLETION OF YOUR TRAINING.**  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

  * The Ottawa Hospital Cancer Centre is the sole provider of radiation oncology related services in the Champlain LHIN (population 1.5 million) and normally over 5,100 new patient consults occur per year in our division.

  * The UOttawa Training Program provides the trainee excellent educational and research opportunities.

  * Our radiation treatment facilities are state-of-the-art and include: three wide bore CT simulators with 4D capability, nine Elekta Linear Accelerators with cone-beam CT capability as well as an active IMRT program with all VMAT capable units. The main planning system used is Monaco though is transitioning to Raystation. We have an MRI simulator installed. In addition, we have an MR-LINAC which is currently being installed and will be operational in 2025. In 2012 we acquired a Cyberknife which is the new basis of our radiosurgery program with extension beyond the CNS to applications in the body. The Cyberknife has been replaced with a newer unit in 2024. Skin cancer patients are treated with electrons or orthovoltage.

  * The centre performs both HDR and permanent LDR Prostate Brachytherapy procedures, in addition to HDR implants for gynecological, breast and GI disease sites.

  * We are a pioneer in stereotactic radiotherapy for body and CNS.

  * The close proximity to research laboratory encourages collaboration for translational research.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  * Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  * Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  * Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  * Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Letter of language proficiency  
• TOEFL - iBT  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General  
• FAIMER / World Directory of Medical Schools

**Language assessment document accepted:  **TOEFL-iBT

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum score of 93 with a minimum score of 24 on the speaking section. The TOEFL iBT Home Edition will be accepted as a substitute for the TOEFL iBT

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:**  must have minimum score of 7.0 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Occupational English Test (OET)
-Medicine

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum grade of B in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:  **Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP)

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:  **Must be valid up to the assignment of applications and documents deadline
  * **Minimum score:  **must have minimum score of 9.0 in each of the four skills in the same sitting

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Letter of language proficiency

  * Letter of language proficiency is a letter from your Dean attesting that your medical school program of instruction was completed solely in English or French
  * Alternatively, candidates can submit a printout from the [World Directory of Medical Schools](http://www.wdoms.org/) which clearly states that the language of instruction is English or French.

Applicants must be able to communicate proficiently in the language of
instruction and patient care of the matching school and training site. Please
review specific program descriptions for more information.

Examinations

Required

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

**Results must be provided by File Review Date.**

  * **Note:  MCCQE part II passing score can be used to apply instead of the NAC passing score.**

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Candidates may wish to describe important achievements, extracurricular
activities, personal goals, during residency, etc.

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

The selection committee reviews all submitted documents and ranks applicants
based on achievement, trainability and likelihood for success.

The University of Ottawa/The Ottawa Hospital Radiation Oncology Training
Program will host 2 virtual information nights with staff and residents.
Please join Program Director, Dr. Joanne Meng, Head, Division of Radiation
Oncology, Dr. Marc Gaudet and Chair of the Resident Admission Committee Dr.
David Tiberi to find out if the program is the right fit for you. During the
information session our Radiation Oncology residents will be available to
answer questions you may have about life as a Radiation Oncology resident in
Ottawa. Information nights will be held on Thursday, September 26 and Tuesday,
October 15. Both events will start at 7:30 PM EST.

Attendance at this virtual session is not a prerequisite for an interview, nor
is it a guarantee of an interview. To access the TEAMS link for the
information session please contact
[madroberts@toh.ca](mailto:madroberts@toh.ca).

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 3, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: The Interviews will take place virtually on
February 3, 2025. Applicants who secure interviews with us, will receive an
invitation from residents to join them for a virtual evening so you can all
get to know them (date to be determined)  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: We will be screening applicants based
on the submitted package (personal letter, curriculum vitae, transcript,
dean's letter and letters of reference). Applicants that are felt to be
competitive for admission to the program will be offered an interview.  These
invitations to interview will be sent to applicants via email from the program
assistant.  
  
The interview process consists of two 20-minute interviews with a 5-minute
break between, each interview panel consisting of 2-3 persons, at least one
staff radiation oncologist, along with a resident, clinical physicist, or
other allied health professional from the division. In fairness to all
applicants, no feedback is given on the applicant's performance at the
interview.  
  
Please direct any questions about interview day to Madison Roberts, Academic
Programs Coordinator (613) 737-7700 ext 70240.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

  * Preference will be given to candidates with a clear interest in radiation oncology - especially candidates who have had electives in radiation oncology.
  * References from physicians who can attest to interest and aptitude in oncology will be useful.
  * Experience in basic or clinical research is an asset
  * High academic achievement in medical school is an asset
  * Our program is looking for applicants who have completed a broad range of electives.
  * Demonstrated proficiency in English

**Pre-Residency Program**

All International Medical Graduates accepted to all residency programs will be
required to complete the Pre-Residency Program (PRP) prior to entering a
residency program. Matched IMGs will be expected to attend the PRP virtually
and in-person through [Touchstone
Institute](https://touchstoneinstitute.ca/learning/preresidencyprogram/).

## Program goals

The general objective of the University of Ottawa Radiation Oncology Residency
Training program is to produce technically competent and caring radiation
oncologists with the requisite knowledge, skills, and attitudes to provide
effective, compassionate, patient-centered radiation treatment.

Radiation oncologists are specialists with unique expertise in the management
of patients with malignant disease. They must possess clinical skill in
oncology and technical proficiency in the therapeutic use of radiation, and
are integrally involved in the formulation and execution of the management
plan for patients with cancer. The competent and ethical discharge of these
responsibilities results in improved quality of life and/or survival for
patients, which in turn benefits families, society and the health system.

## Selection process goals

 The Radiation Oncologist must have a sound background in the sciences basic
to the understanding of malignant disease and its treatment by radiation and
by other modalities. This includes a working knowledge of the theoretical
basis of the specialty, including its foundations in biology and physics. The
acquisition of clinical skills in patient assessment and management, developed
by assuming responsibility for the care of patients, must be accompanied by
proficiency in planning and executing radiation treatments utilizing external
beam, sealed radioactive sources, and systemically administered radioisotopes.



The Radiation Oncologist must also be familiar with the principles and
techniques of research and of teaching. The program will include instruction
and experience in the design and implementation of research studies, the
interpretation of data and the critical assessment of medical literature and
of new technologies. It will also include opportunities in the teaching of
patients, medical students, and junior residents, and an understanding of the
techniques and importance of life-long learning.



In all aspects of specialist practice, research, and teaching, the graduate
must be able to address issues of age, gender, sexual orientation, culture,
ethnicity and ethics in a professional manner.

## File review process

Review team composition : Each file will be reviewed by 2 or more file
reviewers which may consists of staff physicians, physicists, and or Senior
residents. Marks are averaged and the review team meets to discuss before
interviews are offered.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  interest in radiation oncology, previous employment, educational background   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  look for electives in radiation oncology   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  variety of extra curricular, interest outside medicine   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  yes, volunteer work   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  do factor into decisions   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  sincerity in writing   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  do factor into decisions   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  do factor into decisions   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  results factor into decisions   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We believe the best residents have been able to explore
the breadth of the medical profession through suitable electives while at
medical school. We don't preferentially rank applicants who have pursued
electives in one discipline /sub-discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  We do evaluate this interview component   
Collegiality |  We do evaluate this interview component   
Communication skills |  We do evaluate this interview component   
Health advocacy |  We do evaluate this interview component   
Interest in the discipline |  We do evaluate this interview component   
Interest in the program |  Yes very important   
Leadership skills |  We do evaluate this interview component   
Professionalism |  We do evaluate this interview component   
Scholarly activities |  We do evaluate this interview component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Ottawa, the nation's capital, is a vibrant city located next to the Gatineau
Hills in Eastern Ontario. It is recognized as a city that affords its citizens
a wonderful quality of life (ranked #1 in Canada's Best Places to Live 2012
for third year in a row by MoneySense magazine).

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Competency by Design began July 1, 2019 and consists of four stages which have
been designed to produce well-rounded academic radiation oncologists. To
achieve this, the program is comprised of four segments: general medicine and
surgery, practice of oncology and radiation oncology, clinical /laboratory
research, and basic sciences as it pertains to radiation oncology
(radiobiology and radiation physics). Each stage is flexible in duration,
depending on the progress of the resident. The resident moves to the next
stage upon evaluation and promotion by the Program’s Competency Committee

 TRANSITION TO DISCIPLINE

This stage focuses on introducing residents to the specialty of Radiation
Oncology, providing a comprehensive orientation to the setting in which they
will work, and assessing their incoming knowledge and skills. Residents will
develop a familiarity with the tools, techniques, and principles that underlie
radiation oncology practice, preparing them for providing basic elements of
care under supervision, including performing and documenting a history and
physical exam and completing a patient handover.

Residents will take part in a two-week boot camp consisting of lectures and
time in outpatient clinics followed by a further 6 weeks in outpatient clinics
with various preceptors.

FOUNDATIONS

This stage focuses on the knowledge and skills for providing care for patients
in various settings. Residents will assess and manage patients with a variety
of common conditions, with and without a cancer diagnosis. In addition,
residents will be introduced to concepts and skills that are necessary for
radiation oncology practice, such as diagnostic imaging and pathology.

This stage is expected to take 12 - 18 months and trainees will be introduced
and exposed to independent responsibilities for decisions involving clinical
judgment skills , the further development of an effect and mature physician
patient relationship, and the achievement of competence in a broad range of
primary medical practice. Trainees will rotate through a combination of
rotations: general medicine and surgery, clinical/laboratory outpatient
radiation oncology, inpatient radiation oncology, medical oncology, and
subspecialties related to oncology. During this stage, the trainee will, by
training in all facets of cancer care, learn to become a well-rounded
physician-oncologist, and not solely one who delivers radiotherapy.

CORE

This stage focuses on the application of clinical skills in radiation oncology
care for the full spectrum of a patient’s treatment from initial consultation
to follow-up and surveillance. The resident will acquire the skills to manage
basic and complex oncology patient conditions, including all aspects of
radiation treatment planning and delivery.

By the end of the stage the trainee will have a grasp of the respective roles
of the radiation oncologists, the medical oncologist, the oncologic surgeon,
and the other specialists who treat cancer patients. It is through this wide
breath of training that the resident becomes an oncologist who not only treats
cancer with radiation, but is able to handle all the clinical scenarios
associated with the diagnosis of cancer, and is able to provide consultation
on how a particular cancer should be managed, from diagnosis to end of life
care. Additionally, in order to ensure adequate exposure to pediatric
oncology, there will be a four-week rotation at the Princess Margaret Hospital
in Toronto as well as a rotation in a community based radiation oncology
practice.

TRANSITION TO PRACTICE

This stage focuses on refining the skills of a Radiation Oncologist, and
preparing for the next stage of their career. The resident will manage a
radiation oncology practice at a consultant level across at least four tumour
sites while planning for future professional development and creating a
personal wellness plan.

During the final year of training, the trainee will spend time enhancing the
practice of radiation oncology. The training is comprised of a series of
rotations with staff radiation oncologists, all of whom have their own
specific areas of practice and expertise. At the end of training the trainee
will have rotated through all the disease sites that are treated at our
centre.

Research

The training program strongly encourages and supports research during
residency training. Within our division, there are many radiation oncologists
who are actively engaged in clinical research. This has resulted in our
division becoming very productive in terms of peer-reviewed publications and
presentations. Additionally, we have also had a very good track record of
residents being engaged in clinical and laboratory research during their
training, resulting in many peer-reviewed publications in highly reputable
journals. All new residents will be required to complete at least one research
project.

In order to sustain and improve upon our record, the training program has
devised a flexible and pragmatic approach to resident research. Since research
projects may take many forms, the time required will vary significantly.
Residents and their research supervisors may designate up to 6 rotations (of 4
weeks each) as research time for approved projects. Alternatively, residents
may use times when their preceptors are away, or elective time, depending on
the needs of the research project.  Hybrid clinical/research rotations, during
which the resident spends  1 or 2 days/week on research, may also be designed
with the Program Director's approval.

Seminars

One half day each week, free of clinical duties, is assigned to lectures,
teaching and seminars. The lecturers or supervisors are drawn from the
radiation oncology program (physics, radiobiology, research scientists) and
invited lecturers from other disciplines. A  typical academic half-day
includes Radiation Oncology Practice Rounds, Treatment Planning Course ,  and
physics or radiobiology. Other educational opportunities include
multidisciplinary tumour rounds and radiation medicine case rounds, in
addition to OSCEs.

There is a two-week introduction to radiotherapy treatment planning , taught
by the Dosimetry and Planning Department taught during trainees 2nd year and a
comprehensive four-week rotation  at  end of their 4th year.



* * *

# Training Sites

  * The Ottawa Hospital - General Site

  * The Ottawa Hospital - Queensway Site (Irving Greenberg Family Cancer Centre)

  * Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO) 

  * Princess Margaret Hospital, Toronto (for pediatric rotation) 

  * Élisabeth Bruyère Health Centre (for palliative rotation)

* * *

# Additional Information

In addition, all candidates must meet the Ontario criteria of eligibility.







Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26430?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26430