#  Western University - Obstetrics and Gynecology - London  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 6

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Yvonne Leong  

Address Obstetrics & Gynaecology  
London Health Sciences Centre, Room B2-416  
800 Commissioners Road East  
London, Ontario, N6A 5W9  

Work  519-685-8223

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Ob/Gyn at Western
](https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/obsgyn/education/postgraduate/applications/index.html)  
[ Instagram ](https://www.instagram.com/westernobgyn/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Brittany Philipson

Title: Program Administrator

Email: Brittany.Philipson@lhsc.on.ca

  

Name: Dr. Yvonne Leong

Title: Program Director

Email: yvonne.leong@lhsc.on.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

The Ob/Gyn Program at Western fully implemented Competence by Design (CBD) on
July 1st, 2019.  We have a dedicated team of CBD leaders who are committed to
support residents progression through this new model of education.

All Ob/Gyn residents are assigned to Academic Advisors, who mentor and assist
residents as they navigate through residency and ensure they are achieving
their personal and academic goals.  



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Program application language: English

All candidates must meet the Ontario criteria of eligibility.





* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided (by submitting one
of the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.
Failure to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.
No other forms of verification are acceptable.  

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of card must be provided and legible.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Applicants must submit 3 reference letters.  These letters should be submitted
by faculty you have worked with who support your interest in Obstetrics &
Gynaecology.



Additional documents

Required

Abstract/Publications

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

A selection committee reviews each of the applications in detail.  After
careful consideration, the committee will determine which applicants will be
selected for interview.  All applicants will be contacted via email.  

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 4, 2025
  * February 5, 2025
  * February 6, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Our interviews will be held on:  
  
Tuesday February 4th 2025  
  
Wednesday February 5th 2025  
  
Thursday February 6th 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Your application must be complete to
be considered.  Applicants will be contacted for interviews based on selection
criteria.  Interviews are based on a standardized format, and are conducted by
two panels consisting of faculty, residents and community members.  In lieu of
an in-person event, the Department will be hosting a virtual social via
Gather.  This social will provide applicants an informal opportunity to speak
with residents about the program and living in London.  
  
  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The objective of the Western University Obstetrics & Gynaecology Residency
Training Program is to train outstanding clinicians who can provide high-level
obstetrical and gynaecologic care to patients throughout Canada.  This is
accomplished by following and maintaining the educational standards that are
outlined by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

Our goals are to offer a thorough clinical experience that includes all
subspecialty areas of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, with an educational curriculum
that is supported by academic faculty that are recognized leaders in the
Canadian and international Ob/Gyn communities.  We also strive to provide
research and scholarly opportunities for our residents in order to foster a
life-long interest in academic pursuits and learning regardless of their
eventual practice locale.  In addition, the program provides mentorship to aid
our residents in attaining their goals during and after residency.

## Program goals

Our Vision: to be leaders in women's health, inspired by those we serve and
provided by those who care

Our Mission: to promote excellence in-patient centred care for women and their
families together with our healthcare partners, and through education and
research relating to all aspects of women's healthcare

Our Values: with respect we listen, with excellence we learn, and with
compassion we care and achieve

## Selection process goals

Exemplary academic record with graduation from an accredited medical school.

A minimum of three references should be obtained from academic specialists who
can attest to your interest in Obstetrics and Gynaecology as well as comment
on other abilities which would lend themselves to a career in this specialty.

Elective choices demonstrating an interest in Obstetrics and Gynaecology are
required.  

Demonstrated excellence in interpersonal and communication skills are an
asset.  

## File review process

Review team composition : Program Director, Dr. Yvonne Leong  
Deputy Program Director, Dr. Ji-Hyun Jang  
Competence Committee Chair, Dr. Cynthia Chan  
Resident Representatives from the Residency Program Committee (3 residents)

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Evidence of work experience, volunteer experience, research experience, committee work and leadership.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Evidence of interest in Ob/Gyn.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Completion of MCCQE Part 1 and score.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of extracurricular activities which highlights your genuine interests and passions as well as an interest in Ob/Gyn.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of leadership roles, duration and accomplishments, particularly in the field of Ob/Gyn.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evidence of rotational performance and evaluation.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Evidence of personal, academic, interpersonal attributes, and an interest in Ob/Gyn.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Evidence of skills/attributes indicating suitability as an Ob/Gyn resident and evidence of interest and dedication to Ob/Gyn.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Evidence of publications and/or involvement in scholarly work, particularly in the field of Ob/Gyn.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Assess courses taken and evaluations   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: The completion of electives in Obstetrics & Gynaecology
is considered evidence of genuine interest in our specialty and is looked upon
favourably during application review.

On Site Elective: Onsite electives provide residents an opportunity to learn
about our program firsthand. They are considered evidence of genuine interest
in our program and are looked upon favourably during application review. We
prefer to have applicants complete onsite electives but recognize that
residents have limited elective opportunities and cannot visit all sites.

Other information regarding elective requirement:





## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence of collaborative partnerships within a professional context.   
Collegiality |  Evidence of interdependence between care providers.   
Communication skills |  Demonstration of verbal and listening skills.   
Health advocacy |  Demonstration of a genuine interest in health advocacy.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstration of interest in Obstetrics and Gynaecology must be provided.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrates an interest in and knowledge of the residency program at Western University.   
Leadership skills |  Evidence of leadership encounters.   
Professionalism |  Evidence of professional encounters.   
Scholarly activities |  Identified opportunities which cultivated scholarly activities.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights



The Obstetrics and Gynaecology Residency Training program is committed to
train graduates who will be:

  * **Academically successful:  **allowing them to provide exceptional care and respond to the needs of their patients, community, and society.
  * **Surgically skilled:  **giving them the confidence to provide superior surgical care to their patients and mentorship to future trainees.
  * **Future leaders:**  in their careers, including research, medical education, public health, professional advocacy, and healthcare administration.
  * **Compassionate physicians:**  towards their patients going through difficult, life-altering experiences, and towards their peers and workplace collaborators.
  * **Team players:**  within their resident peers, and inter-professionally with other services and allied health, laying foundations for lifelong collegial and positive work/learning environments.





* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Competency By Design (CBD)**

In 2019, the Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology launched a Competency by
Design (CBD) curriculum, under the direction and guidance of the Royal College
of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. More information about this curriculum
is available here: [Competence by Design
(CBD)](https://www.royalcollege.ca/ca/en/cbd.html). CBD aims to enhance
patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving
patient needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education
process. The residency programs is broken down into four training stages, and
each stage requires the successful achievement of Entrusted Professional
Activities (EPA’s) based upon required competencies.

All programs implementing CBD continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes and continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification. Certification for trainees will include the completion of a
Royal College examination.

For more information, contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

### **Transition to Discipline**

  * OB/GYN Introductory Rotation: 2 blocks
  * Formal Academic Teaching

### **Foundations of Discipline**

  * Emergency Medicine Rotation: 1 block
  * General Surgery Rotation: 2 blocks
  * Internal Medicine Rotation: 2 blocks
  * Scholarly Project Rotation: 1 block
  * Junior Gynaecologic Oncology Rotation: 2 blocks
  * Ultrasound Rotation: 1 block
  * Pregnancy Options Program/ STI Rotation: 1 block
  * Critical Care and Trauma Center (CCTC) Rotation: 2 blocks
  * Junior Obstetrics Rotation: 7 blocks
  * Junior Gynecology Rotation: 5 blocks
  * Maternal-Fetal Medicine (MFM) ABC Rotation: 1 block
  * Formal Academic Teaching

### **Core of Discipline**

  * Maternal-Fetal Medicine (MFM) ABC Rotation: 2 blocks
  * Community Obstetrics/Gynecology in Windsor Rotation: 2 blocks
  * Senior Gynaecologic Oncology Rotation: 3 blocks
  * Maternal-Fetal Medicine (MFM) Rotation: 2 blocks
  * Urogynecology Rotation: 2 blocks
  * Gynaecologic Reproductive Endocrinology & Infertility (GREI) Rotation: 3 blocks
  * Green Gynecology Rotation: 2 blocks
  * Junior Obstetrics Rotation: 4 blocks
  * Colposcopy Rotation: 1 block
  * Scholarly Project Rotation: 1 block
  * Selective Rotations: 5 blocks
  * Elective Rotations: 3 blocks
  * Formal Academic Teaching & Leadership

### **Transition to Practice**

  * Senior Clinic Rotation with Chief Resident Longitudinal Clinic: 2 blocks
  * Obstetrics Chief Rotation: 2 blocks
  * Gynaecology Chief (Purple, Grey) Rotation: 4 blocks
  * Formal Academic Teaching & Leadership



Academic Curriculum

Residents in Obstetrics and Gynaecology at Western attend Academic Half-Day
which is held each Wednesday throughout the year.  Academic Half-Day is split
between junior and senior residents to target different learning objectives.
They are complimented by weekly Grand Rounds and Friday Morning Rounds
(rotating schedule of topics such as urogynaecology, prenatal diagnosis, etc).
Residents present articles for critical appraisal during monthly Journal Club.
An annual Research Awards Day provides opportunity for presentation of
research findings.  Funding is also available, by application, for travel to
educational meetings and for presentation of research.



  
  

Scholarly Project

Residents are expected to complete a Scholarly Project (basic science
research, clinical research, qualitative research, continuous quality
improvement, etc) and present at our annual Research Day at least once during
residency.  There are opportunities for additional scholarly projects if
desired.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

London Health Sciences Centre - Victoria Campus (Primary Site)

London Health Sciences Centre - University Campus

St. Joseph's Health Centre, London

London Regional Cancer Centre

OMEGA Fertility Center

Middlesex Health Unit

Windsor Regional Hospital - Metropolitan Campus



* * *

# Additional Information

All programs at Western University will commence on July 1, 2025 with a one-
day orientation in London, Ontario (date to be determined).

Further information may be reviewed on our website:
www.schulich.uwo.ca/obsgyn

Education and clinical workloads comply with PARO guidelines.



What does London have to offer:

London is known as The Forest City.

In the heart of the downtown you will find art galleries, museums, historic
sites and churches, shopping, sidewalk cafés and friendly nightclubs.

Excellent entertainment available at Budweiser Gardens, a multi-purpose
facility whose focus is on both entertainment and sports and is the largest
such centre in southwestern Ontario.

An abundance of dining venues throughout the city, accommodating all dietary
restrictions. London is also home to several local craft breweries.

Outdoor activities - Close proximity to 2 beaches, sailing, paddling, hiking,
camping, diving, swimming, biking, golfing, skiing

Music festivals, live theatre, outdoor concerts, symphony performances.

Many housing options in close proximity to work with excellent schools.  A
multitude of family-friendly extra-curricular activities.





* * *

# FAQ

Western University has six (6) PGY-1 positions available for the 2025 match.

The Ob/Gyn Training Program does not have any allocated International Medical
Graduate (IMG) positions.  Review of IST applications resulting in an added
7th PGY-1 resident may be considered on an annual basis.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26482?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26482