#  University of Alberta - Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology - Edmonton

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on November 25, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Erin Chapman  

Address Laboratory Medicine and Pathology  
University of Alberta Hospital  
8440 - 112 Street  
Edmonton , Alberta, T6G 2R7  

780-407-2606

Websites of Interest [ Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology Pathology
Information Page ](https://www.ualberta.ca/laboratory-medicine-and-
pathology/programs/postgraduate-medical-education---residency-
programs/diagnostic-and-molecular-pathology-and-diagnostic-and-clinical-
pathology/index.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: Program Contact

Name: Ms. Kathryn Tomlinson

Title: Program Administrator

Email: katomlin@ualberta.ca

Phone: 780-407-2606

  

* * *

# Important Information

New Specialty Name

The Royal College has recently changed the name of our specialty. Previously
known as "Anatomical Pathology", the specialty name has been changed to
"Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology" in an attempt to reflect the changes that
have been happening and continue to occur in pathology.



* * *

# Return of Service

There are no return of service requirements at the University of Alberta.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Please see the Alberta [provincial
criteria.](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/)

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) are required to provide proof of
English language proficiency as determined by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) who completed their medical education in
Quebec or at the University of Ottawa (French Stream) are required to provide
proof of English language proficiency as determined by the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

CMGs who completed their medical education at the University of Ottawa must
indicate on their application which stream they completed (either French or
English).

_For more information on the CPSA English language requirements, please visit
the  [CPSA website](https://cpsa.ca/physicians/registration/english-language-
proficiency/)._

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Submit only three letters of reference from academic and professional sources.
These can include: supervisors of clinical rotations; undergraduate elective
supervisors; research or postgraduate supervisors (where applicable).

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Personal letter (under 500 words) describing how your background and
experiences have led to an interest and commitment to a career in pathology.

Custom Résumé / CV

Please highlight any areas that you are particularly interested in sharing
(awards, scholarships, research publications, interests outside of medicine,
etc.)

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Optional - will be reviewed

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Candidates selected for an interview will
be contacted by the program administrator to schedule an interview date and
time. All interviews will be conducted virtually.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Candidates will be interviewed by a
panel through a virtual format. The panel will include members of the Carms
Selection Committee: the program director; the program administrator; faculty
members; and lead resident.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates should have an excellent academic record with above average verbal
and written communication skills. A capacity for self-motivation and good
organizational skills are essential.

## Program goals

The objective of our program is to train highly competent anatomical
pathologists for practice in both academic and community settings. They will
make substantial contributions to patient care, education and/or research in
the field of pathology. Our trainees will be medical experts in anatomical
pathology with the ability to integrate ancillary diagnostics, including
molecular techniques, into their practices. They will be collaborators with
colleagues inside and outside of the laboratory, leaders, and teachers. We
train residents to meet the needs of patients not only in Alberta, but across
Canada.

## Selection process goals

  * Genuine interest in pursuing a career in pathology.
  * Motivated, self-learner.
  * Reliable, with strong time management skills.
  * Team player with strong communication and interpersonal skills.
  * Enjoys solving diagnostic challenges and visual pattern recognition.
  * Ability to integrate multiple streams of information into a cohesive summary.
  * Intellectual curiosity with desire to contribute to the field via scholarly, educational, or administrative projects.
  * Enjoys interacting with and advising clinical colleagues.
  * Commitment to high standards of quality in their work.

## File review process

Review team composition : Program director, program administrator, lead
resident(s), faculty members

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Pre-medical school career, educational profile, work history.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Our program does not favour residents who do electives at our site or numerous electives in our specialty. We consider and value applicants with broad clinical experiences.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Not evaluated.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteer and community service experience, involvement in recreational/athletic/artistic activities.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Experience in leadership positions is considered an asset.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Clerkship evaluations, comments, unexplained leaves of absence/extension of training.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstrable interest in our specialty showing genuine understanding, interest in and suitability for a career in pathology. This can be through electives or through other activities/experiences. Any leaves of absences or extensions of training should be explained.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Interpersonal skills, professionalism, aptitude, and suitability for pathology.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research experience, skills translatable to pathology.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Success/failure and marks, where applicable, on medical/pre-medical coursework.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Our program does not favour residents who do electives at our site or numerous
electives in our specialty. We consider and value applicants with broad
clinical experiences.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  All interviews will be occurring virtually.  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due
to weather, technology failure or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence from examples of personal experience and discussion of hypothetical scenarios.   
Collegiality |  Evidence from examples of personal experience and discussion of hypothetical scenarios.   
Communication skills |  Ability to clearly and concisely respond to and ask questions.   
Health advocacy |  We do not specifically evaluate this interview component.   
Interest in the discipline |  Ability to clearly articulate their reasons for considering pathology.   
Interest in the program |  Knowledge of the program and evidence they have considered what aspects of a program they consider important.   
Leadership skills |  Evidence from examples of personal experience and discussion of hypothetical scenarios.   
Professionalism |  Exhibits professional behaviour throughout the interview process and can discuss personal and hypothetical scenarios.   
Scholarly activities |  Experience and skills pertinent or transferable to laboratory medicine.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * This is a comprehensive program providing experiences in all facets of the practice of anatomical pathology, including integration of ancillary diagnostic techniques. This includes tertiary academic hospitals, community hospitals, and stand-alone laboratory facilities. The regional model of health care delivery provides all residents access to a broad range of cases and complexities.
  * We have highly dedicated teaching faculty, including staff pathologists, pathologists' assistants, and cytotechnologists. The ratio of residents to faculty is 1:8.
  * Opportunities for interprovincial and international electives are available and encouraged.
  * There are no mandatory rural rotations but these are easily arranged and encouraged.
  * Research is actively encouraged, and research electives are available for all residents. All residents are expected to participate in at least one clinical or basic science scholarly project, and present their results at an annual departmental research day. When appropriate, they can present at a national or international meeting during the course of their training, with funding assistance available.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**DIAGNOSTIC AND MOLECULAR PATHOLOGY**

All diagnostic and molecular pathology training programs in Canada have
transitioned to the Competence by Design (CBD) curriculum (as of July 2019) as
mandated by the Royal College. CBD comprises four (4) stages: Transition to
Discipline (TTD); Foundations of Discipline (FD); Core of Discipline (CD); and
Transition to Practice (TTP). A brief description of each stage is below,
followed by the rotation schedule organized both by stage and training year.
The two-part Royal College Exam is expected to take place in spring of fourth
year (written exam) and fall of fifth year (practical exam).

**Transition to Discipline:  **This stage consists of a 2-block introduction
to pathology in which the resident learns the essential skills needed to start
on a pathology rotation. This includes: instruction in gross room, morgue, and
laboratory safety; laboratory tours; using a microscope; instruction in
specimen processing; basics in histology; a virtual anatomy course; an
introduction to autopsy; and establishing a training portfolio. These blocks
offer an introduction to the program and resident colleagues before the start
of clinical rotations.

**Foundations of Discipline:** This stage encompasses training in clinical
disciplines that work closely with the laboratory and pathology, including:
general surgery; internal medicine; medical oncology; gynecologic oncology;
and emergency medicine. The clinical rotations last for 6 blocks. The
residents will then return to the lab for rotations where they learn the
basics of grossing, pathology reporting, and autopsy. This is done by pairing
the resident with a senior resident colleague with transition to independent
activities.

**Core of Discipline:  **This stage of training consists of rotations in
general surgical pathology across all of our Alberta Precision Laboratory
sites (University of Alberta Hospital [UAH], Royal Alexandra Hospital [RAH],
Misericordia Community Hospital [MCH], Grey Nuns Community Hospital [GNH], and
Base Lab [BL]). There are also a number of mandatory subspecialty rotations,
including breast pathology, lymphoma pathology, pediatric pathology,
neuropathology, and cytopathology, among others. Forensic pathology is done at
the Medical Examiner's Office (MEO). There is also dedicated elective time and
Royal College exam leave.

**Transition to Practice:  **This stage is a pre-practice stage where the
resident gains experience and confidence at various training sites,
functioning at a "junior attending" level. Ample elective time allows for
focused training in the resident's area of interest. Although not required,
residents are encouraged to use this elective time to develop a focused area
of interest that will contribute to their career goals. The goal at the end of
the Transition to Practice stage is to be ready for independent practice.

Throughout all stages, the resident is required to maintain personal learning
plans, complete at least one research project to be presented at the UofA
Dept. of Lab Medicine and Pathology annual research day, and participate in
teaching of other residents and other learners in the department.



**Rotations by Stage**

**Transition to Discipline (TD, 2 blocks):**

  * Orientation to Histology, Anatomy, and Basic Pathology (2 blocks) 



**Foundations of Discipline (FD, 8 blocks):**

  * Emergency Medicine (1 block) 
  * Internal Medicine (1 block) 
  * Gynecologic Oncology (1 block) 
  * Medical Oncology (1 block) 
  * Surgery (1 block) 
  * Vacation (1 block)
  * Re-Orientation to Pathology (1 block)
  * AP Junior UAH (1 block)



**Core of Discipline (CD, 43 blocks):**

  * MEO/UAH Junior Autopsy (1 block)
  * Junior Autopsy UAH/ RAH (1 block) 
  * Senior Autopsy UAH/RAH (1 block)
  * AP Junior UAH (4 blocks) 
  * AP Junior RAH (1 block) 
  * AP Junior GNH (1-2 blocks) 
  * AP Junior MCH (1-2 blocks)
  * AP Junior BL (2 blocks) 
  * AP Senior UAH (2 blocks)  
  * AP Senior RAH (2 blocks PGY3; 2 blocks PGY4; 4 blocks total)
  * AP Senior GNH (1 block)
  * AP Senior MCH (1 block)
  * AP Senior BL (1 block)
  * Cytology Junior UAH/ BL (2 blocks) 
  * Cytology Senior UAH/ BL (1 block)
  * Dermpath UAH (1 block)
  * Breast MCH (1 block)
  * Pediatric pathology (2 blocks)
  * Lymph Node Pathology (1 block)
  * Molecular pathology #1 (1 block) 
  * Molecular pathology #2 (1 block) 
  * Neuropathology (2 blocks) 
  * Forensic Pathology (2 blocks) 
  * Electives (4 blocks) 
  * Study Leave #1(1 block) 
  * Study Leave #2 (1 block) 



**Transition to Practice (TP, 12 blocks):**

  * AP Senior UAH (2 blocks)
  * AP Senior RAH (1 block)
  * AP Senior BL (1 block)
  * Electives (8 blocks) *ideally used for training in area of special interest

*Electives are subject to approval by the program director. The resident is required to be in good-standing and on-track.

*Rotations subject to change at the discretion of the program director and Residency Program Committee

**** ****

****ROTATIONS BY YEAR (FLEXIBLE)****

**PGY1 (TD and FD)**

  * Orientation to Histology, Anatomy, and Basic Pathology (2 blocks - block 1&2)
  * Emergency Medicine (1 block)
  * Internal Medicine(1 block)
  * Gynecologic Oncology (1 block)
  * Pediatrics (1 block)
  * Medical Oncology (1 block)
  * Surgery (1 block)
  * Vacation (1 block)
  * (re-) Orientation Pathology (1 block - block 10; paired with PGY2)
  * Anatomical Pathology (AP) Junior UAH (2 blocks - blocks 11-13)
  * \+ 1 from PGY-2 list (1 block - blocks 11-13)



**PGY2 (CD)**

  * MEO/Junior Autopsy (1 block - 2 weeks at MEO, 2 weeks at UAH/RAH)
  * Junior autopsy UAH/RAH (1 block)
  * AP Junior UAH (4 blocks) 
  * AP Junior BL (2 blocks)
  * AP Junior RAH (1 block)
  * AP Junior GNH (1-2 blocks)
  * AP Junior MCH (1-2 blocks)
  * Elective (1 block)
  * +1 from PGY3 list

**** ****

**PGY3 (CD)**

  * Cytology Junior BL / UAH (2 blocks)
  * Dermatopathology UAH (1 block)
  * Molecular pathology (1 block)
  * Breast pathology MCH (1 block)
  * AP Senior MCH (1 block)
  * AP Senior RAH (2 blocks)
  * Neuropathology (2 blocks)
  * Pediatric pathology (1 block)
  * Electives (2 blocks)
  * +1 from PGY4 list

**** ****

**PGY4 (CD)**

  * Senior Autopsy UAH/RAH (1 block)
  * AP Senior UAH (2 blocks)
  * AP Senior RAH (2 blocks)
  * AP Senior GNH (1 block)
  * AP Senior BL (1 block)
  * Cytology Senior UAH / BL (1 block)
  * Lymph Node Pathology (1 block)
  * Molecular pathology #2 (1 block)
  * Forensic Pathology (2 blocks)
  * Study Leave #1 (1 block)
  * Electives (1 block)

**** ****

**PGY5 (TP)**

  * AP Senior UAH (2 blocks)
  * AP Senior RAH (1 block)
  * AP Senior BL (1 block)
  * Study Leave #2 (1 block)
  * Electives (8 blocks) *ideally used for training in area of special interest

*Electives are subject to approval by the program director. The resident is required to be in good-standing and progressing as expected.

*Rotations subject to change at the discretion of the program director and Residency Program Committee.

*Vacation time in PGY1 is allocated as 1 4-week block. Vacation time in PGY 2-5 is taken out of scheduled rotations in 1 week blocks.

** **

* * *

# Training Sites

Training Sites for Mandatory Rotations:

  * University of Alberta Hospital (UAH)
  * Royal Alexandra Hospital (RAH)
  * Grey Nuns Community Hospital (GNH)
  * Misericordia Community Hospital (MCH)
  * Alberta Precision Laboratories Edmonton Base Lab (BL)
  * Office of the Chief Medical Examiner (MEO) 
  * We do not have any mandatory rural rotations. However, rural electives are encouraged, and funding/accommodation may be available for rural electives in Alberta through the provincial RPAP program.
  * Electives out-of-town and out-of-province are allowed and encouraged.

* * *

# Additional Information

CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)

The University of Alberta recognizes the importance of diversity, equity,
inclusivity, decolonization, and indigenization (EDIDI) and is committed to
the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry’s policy on anti-racism.

Further, the University is committed to implementing the Truth and
Reconciliation Commission calls to action that are relevant to education and
medicine. The pursuit of diversity and equitable opportunities is a core value
that guides our selection practices.

The University encourages applications from underrepresented groups, including
Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women,
persons of a minority gender identity or sexual orientation, and individuals
who would contribute to the diversity of the medical community. The CaRMS
Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) is an optional form that candidates
can fill out.

Customizable: Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism
in residency selection, but is currently not using the CSIQ as part of our
application process. We are using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias
and equitable opportunities for all applicants.

* * *

# FAQ

1a) What are some strengths about your specialty?  What draws and keeps people
in your specialty?

_The opportunity to understand the nature of disease in an in-depth way that
isn't achieved in any other specialty.  You get to practice scientific
diagnostic medicine over a broad range of subjects and you have a fair degree
of control over your schedule._

1b)  What are some common complaints about your specialty?

_There is limited direct patient contact - you'll never have an office full of
patients who regard you as their doctor, but limited patient contact does not
mean you will sit alone in the basement! The work you do is at the foundation
of all medicine, and patients cannot be managed without your diagnosis. In
order to do this, you must interact and communicate constantly and effectively
with your pathology and technical colleagues regarding cases and to
troubleshoot problems. You will also be in frequent contact with clinicians by
phone, email, or in person to provide advice, discuss cases and diagnoses, or
for frozen sections. Tumour boards are an essential component of pathology
practice, in which your effective interaction and communication with
clinicians, radiologists and other pathologists is integral to providing
optimum patient care.  
_

2) Why did you choose your specialty?

_Opportunity to have an academic career that readily incorporates teaching,
research, and clinical pathology with an excellent work-life balance. Prefer
an intellectual specialty with non-stop interesting diagnostic puzzles over a
procedural specialty. You always learn something new everyday and are at the
forefront of medical discovery.   You will see cases every week that textbooks
describe as extremely rare because all the whole medical system funnels to the
laboratory.  The ability to use written and verbal communication skills to
integrate information from multiple streams to help both clinical colleagues
and patients understand complex disease processes.  
_

3) What types of clinical cases do you commonly see?

_Diagnostic and molecular  pathology, by definition, encompasses the entire
medical spectrum.  Think of any disease process, from pediatrics to
geriatrics, neurosurgery to dermatology, pathologists diagnose diseases in all
organs. Many pathologists choose to subspecialize in one organ system (breast,
GI, lymphoma, etc.) and may focus their practice mostly or even exclusively in
that system. Other pathologists see a wide breadth of cases. This really
depends on the type of hospital or lab you work in.  
_

4) Briefly describe a typical day.

_Depends upon the setting.   Most pathologists are involved in
clinicopathologic rounds, laboratory supervision, quality
assurance/improvement activities and direct diagnostic work in biopsies,
surgical pathology, hematology, etc.  Academic pathologists teach students and
residents, and may have dedicated time for research in addition to their
clinical sign out duties; community-based pathologists usually sign out cases
for the majority of their time, but often have administrative roles in their
institutions/medical staff organizations.  Some community hospitals also train
residents, and the pathologists will be involved in teaching.  There is very
little to no evening/weekend call in most settings.  Call is always taken from
home and usually problems can be solved over the phone or by a brief hospital
visit, typically for a frozen section._

5a) What are the varieties of lifestyles within your field?

_The lifestyle in pathology is hard to beat.  It is possible to do pathology
and do it well and still have a life outside medicine.  Most pathologists work
regular office hours and do not haunt the hospital halls at night!  Working
hours are often flexible in many settings, as non-urgent cases do not complain
about having to wait a few hours, unlike a waiting room full of patients!_

5b)  Specifically, how able is your specialty to accommodate family life?

_Very easily.   Working hours are very regular for pathologists and call
duties are minimal.  In pathology, one can achieve a very satisfactory work-
life balance that is ideal for raising a family._

6)  Range of incomes?

_In Alberta, pathologists receive a fixed income according to a standard
contracted grid determined by experience.  Starting incomes are very
competitive compared to other non-surgical specialties.  Pathologists
generally have no or minimal overhead and do not deal with the hassle of
billing._

7) How do you see your discipline changing over the next decade?

_While histo/cytomorphology will remain the mainstay of diagnosis, there is
also increasing usage of molecular techniques for diagnosis, prognostic
determination and treatment responses.   These are exciting changes,
particularly as new tests are developed and brought into daily practice.
Digital pathology and computer-aided diagnosis will come into play, helping
the pathologist with tedious tasks, but NOT replacing the pathologist
(certainly unlikely in the next 50 years)!  
_

Residency Program Questions

8) What are you looking for specifically in an impressive candidate?

_Someone who is hard-working, self-motivated, and passionate about solving
diagnostic puzzles and understanding the nature of disease.  Someone who is a
team-player, and has excellent communication skills.  It is also important to
have strong clinical knowledge which serves as a basis for everything we do in
pathology._

9)  What can a potential candidate do now, in order to be an appealing
applicant to your program?

_Acquire a sound foundation of medical knowledge, develop excellent
communication skills both with patients and other medical colleagues, and
explore other specialty areas to ensure that pathology is the right choice for
you.  Doing a pathology elective at any institution in North America is a good
way to understand what we do. _

10) What is your residency program's orientation and focus?

_To produce top-quality diagnostic pathologists who are passionate about what
they do.   This is done by ensuring exposure to a large volume of cases,
exposure to teaching and research opportunities and a full range of practice
styles in a collegial and collaborative environment.  We support the
development of both academic pathologists and hospital/community based
pathologists in this program._

11) What is the availability of experiences in subspecialty areas during
training?

_There is built in time to experience all the subspecialties of pathology from
pediatrics to molecular pathology.  In addition, there is ample elective time
that can be used to focus on areas of interest._

12) What is the on-call schedule during each year of residency?

_\- Clinical rotations:  determined by the clinical service._

_\- Pathology rotations:  residents cover UAH surgical pathology after-hours
call for one week at a time, approximately every ten weeks.  It is home call,
and most issues can be dealt with by phone. On rare occasions, you may have to
go to the hospital, typically for a frozen section.  Residents rotating at UAH
also cover daytime call to triage "rush" specimen requests or inquiries from
clinicians, which typically comprises one or two phone calls a day._

14) What distinguishes the U of A program from other programs?

_The greatest strengths of the program include the huge volume of cases,
excellent teaching and ever-expanding opportunities for research.   We have a
world class molecular pathology laboratory with residents getting the
opportunity to integrate results from many tests which are only available here
in Alberta. Residents do not stay put in one resident room for their whole
residency and rotate at multiple hospital and laboratory sites allowing you to
experience pathology practice in a variety of settings and learn from
different preceptors and hospital "cultures" without even leaving the city.
Success rates on the first attempt at the Royal College exam has been 100% for
all residents for the last several years. _

15a) Who can we contact for more information or to set up electives?

_Our program administrator, Ms. Kathryn Tomlinson.  She can be reached by
__email at katomlin@ualberta.ca_

15b) Specifically, is there a list of residents whom we can call or email?

_Yes - please contact Ms. Tomlinson for contact information._

16) How competitive is it to get in, and then to succeed in your field?

_Almost all students who want pathology as their first choice will be matched
in the first round; most will also get their first choice location. You should
have no difficulty in securing a residency position and succeeding in the
FRCPC examinations through hard work and dedication.  _

17a)  Is there active and/or required research in your residency program?

_A research project is required, and must be presented at an intradepartmental
or external scientific meeting._

17b)  What role does research play in your career?

_Research is present in varying degrees among pathologists.  Our research
strengths include a world-renowned renal and transplantation pathology
research program, in addition to pulmonary, GI, GYN, breast, and head and neck
research areas. Some pathologists are 75% research, 25% clinical practice,
while others do no research at all.  It is pathologist dependent._

18)  What local, national or international conferences would be of benefit to
candidates interested in your residency program?

_The annual pathology Banff course, the Canadian Association of Pathologists
(CAP) annual meeting and the United States and Canada Association of
Pathologists' (USCAP) annual meeting are all regularly attended by residents
and pathologists._

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27436?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27436