#  Dalhousie University - Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology - Halifax  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on October 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Erica Schollenberg  

Address Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology  
5788 University Avenue  
Mackenzie Building, Room 206B  
Halifax, Nova Scotia, B3H 1V8  

Work  erica.schollenberg@iwk.nshealth.ca

Websites of Interest [ Dalhousie University Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology
](https://medicine.dal.ca/pathology)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Julie Griffith

Title: Program Administrator (acting)

Email: pathres@dal.ca

Phone: (902)473-5197

  

* * *

# Important Information

In 2025 there is one position for Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology (formerly
Anatomical Pathology)**.**   Candidates are encouraged to acquaint themselves
with the differences between DMP and Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology (DCP)
and apply to the program(s) of interest.  Separate applications are required
for each program.

To obtain a postgraduate training license after the conclusion of the match,
Canadian Medical Graduates (CMG's) must have registered and challenged the
Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Exam Par 1 (MCCQE 1) by July 1, 2025.
Those unsuccessful in the exam are subject to the decision of the regulatory
authority regarding licensure.

Our program values the importance of equity, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) as
a goal in the selection process.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

####  

You must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident _**at the time of
application**_.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

The selection committee requests that each applicant submit three (3)
reference letters. References should be from three academic physicians or
scientists (maximum one scientist) under whose supervision you have worked and
who are able to attest to your professional and collaborative skills.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

The personal letter should include why you are interested and suitable for a
career in Anatomical Pathology, plus your reasons for considering the
Dalhousie University Residency Program. Maximum word count of 750.



Optional - will be reviewed

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applicants may not be offered an interview if they do not meet our selection
criteria.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 3, 2025
  * February 4, 2025

Details regarding interview dates:  Virtual interviews will be held February
3-4, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Virtual interviews for DMP are
conducted by members of a Selection Committee which includes a resident
representative, the Program Director, and two other staff pathologists.  
  
There will be two 20-25 minute interviews each with two members of the
selection committee. A virtual tour will be available, and a 'Meet the
Residents/Information Session" one evening.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

The goal of our residency program is to train highly qualified MDs to become
safe and competent pathologists. Residents who have successfully completed
their training will be ready for practice or prepared for further fellowship
training in Canada and around the world. We strive to help the next generation
of Diagnostic and Molecular Pathologists become leaders in their field and
advocates for excellence in diagnostic services and patient care.

## Selection process goals

The following are the criteria we consider when offering interviews and
ranking candidates:

  * A favourable academic record
  * Excellent communication and collaboration skills, as evidenced through the personal letter, written application documents, and interview
  * References from academic specialists in clinical or laboratory disciplines, under whose supervision you have worked and who can attest to your professional and personal qualities (maximum of one (1) non-physician).
  * An appreciation for Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology practice, preferably with prior exposure during an elective
  * A well-written personal letter outlining interest in Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology and Dalhousie
  * A demonstrable interest in research and/or leadership is an asset

## File review process

Review team composition : The Program Director reviews all applications. A
secondary reviewer from the interview team is assigned to review each
application. Thus, each application is reviewed by two people at a minimum.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Academic content, work/research/leadership experience, communication skills (written)   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Documentation of exposure to the field of Pathology   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Presence of work-life balance, leadership skills   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Presence and type of leadership experience   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evaluated   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Communication skills   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Academic excellence   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Academic excellence/scholarship   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic excellence   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

While we encourage applicants to have a broad range of electives, we feel that
it is important that the applicant understands the discipline of pathology and
recommend at least one elective in our field, with exposure to Diagnostic and
Molecular Pathology.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due
to weather, technology failure or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence of an ability to work collaboratively   
Collegiality |  Evidence of an ability to be collegial in an interview setting   
Communication skills |  Presence of excellent communication skills   
Health advocacy |  We do not evaluate this interview component directly   
Interest in the discipline |  Can express interest and knowledge of the field of DMP   
Interest in the program |  Can express interest and knowledge about our program at Dalhousie   
Leadership skills |  Presence   
Professionalism |  Presence   
Scholarly activities |  Presence   
Other interview component(s) |  Critical thinking   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * Relatively small program (currently 11 DMP residents and 7 DCP residents) largely based at one institution (QEII HSC, Halifax.) This allows for close and collegial interaction between pathologists and residents.
  * Highly engaged, collegial faculty with breadth of expertise who deliver high quality, one-on-one supervision and teaching
  * Superb success rate at RCPSC examination and obtaining fellowships and/or jobs upon completion of program
  * Excellent volume and variety of laboratory specimens available for residency education
  * Spacious and well equipped resident workspaces (two resident rooms)
  * Well developed and comprehensive Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology Transition to Discipline month in PGY1
  * Well developed and comprehensive academic half day curriculum including a laboratory management curriculum
  * Resident issues are considered to be of great importance at the divisional and departmental levels
  * Strong off site subspecialty training including Forensic rotation at the Nova Scotia Medical Examiners’ office with 4-5 Forensic pathologists and Pediatric pathology rotation at the IWK with 4 Pediatric pathologists
  * Research opportunities – residents are productive; many have received research grants and/or research awards
  * Research methods course offered every year for PGY2/3 residents
  * All pathologists’ offices and both frozen section labs at QEII HSC have at least a dual teaching head; several rooms have multihead teaching microscopes including an 18-head teaching microscope
  * The Saint John, NB  based rotations expose the residents to a variety of cases in a capacity of a junior pathologist (under supervision of the faculty). The SJRH service gives the residents an opportunity to test their diagnostic skills and contributes to their functioning independently in a diagnostic laboratory. The rotation allows the residents to get to know more Maritime pathologists and the resources available.
  * Development of strong examination skills with biannual in-house exams and optional annual RISE exam
  * Electives may be taken at appropriate institutions in North America (up to twelve weeks)
  * Supportive of career opportunities in both academic and community practice
  * A program director who cares about each resident and facilitates all of the residents reaching their full potential.
  * A flexible Transition to Practice period that focuses on the residents' chosen career path and prepares them for that.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Transition to Discipline (July of PGY1)**

The first month of PGY1 is a Introductory Transition to Discipline curriculum
that allows residents to obtain the Entrustable Professional Activities (EPAs)
required by the Royal College Competence By Design training system. It is
shared with DCP residents and allows students to get to know faculty, other
residents, and learn the basics of microscope function, slide scanning,
grossing, and photography. The program is a mixture of didactic and hand-on
activities. There is an end-of-rotation slide quiz and a histology 'boot camp'
incorporated into the summer Academic Half Day.

**Foundations of Discipline (rest of PGY1)**

There are 12 blocks in the remainder of PGY1, which allow residents to
complete the EPAs in the Foundations stage of training. Clinical rotations are
chosen with care and are relevant to pathology:

  * Clinical Hematology
  * General Surgery (2 blocks)
  * Radiation Oncology
  * Gynecological Oncology
  * Medical Oncology
  * Subspecialty Pediatrics (usually Peds GI)
  * Selective (1 block - Radiology, Dermatology, ENT, Emerg, other)
  * Autopsy Pathology (at the Forensic Institute to learn basic autopsy skills)
  * Foundations of Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology (3 blocks, one of which is in Saint John, NB as a community rotation - intro to grossing and simple surgical sign-out)

**PGY2 through PGY5 - Core and Transition to Practice stages**

PGY2/3

The first 15 months of PGY2/3 consists of a core experience in surgical and
autopsy pathology at the QEII Health Sciences Centre.  Included are rotations
in Lymph node pathology and Molecular pathology. There is a 1 month community
rotation at a site in the Maritime provinces in PGY2/3. The remaining time in
PGY3 includes three 12 week subspecialty rotations in Neuropathology,
Cytopathology and Pediatric Pathology. In PGY3 we have also introduced a new
'Biomarker' rotation that exposes residents to direct sign out of cancer
biomarkers and molecular testing of many solid tumors.

PGY4/5

The Forensic Pathology rotation is undertaken in one of the senior years and
is eight weeks in duration.  There is a required 3 block Diagnostic and
Molecular Pathology rotation at a community site in the Maritimes (at least 2
blocks in Saint John, NB - a large, regional hospital in New Brunswick).  This
serves as a senior resident rotation in the PGY4 or 5 year.  Accommodation is
provided.  The remaining months involve additional training in Anatomical
Pathology, including  senior Cytopathology (1 block), senior Diagnostic and
Molecular Pathology (6 blocks) and a senior Cardiac/Liver/Kidney biopsy
rotation (1 block).  In appropriate circumstances, up to one year of the
program can be outside Anatomical Pathology and could include training in
another branch of the laboratory, in research or in a clinical field. Most
residents choose to do subspecialty anatomical pathology electives. Some
residents complete a Medical Education or Leadership elective (1 block)
offered by the PGME. The elective time is very flexible and is utilized to
strengthen skills and provide opportunities to explore potential career
choices. In addition, the elective time provides CBD residents with
opportunities to tailor their training in order to complete remaining EPAs
from the Core of Discipline stage.

The Transition to Practice period occurs after the Royal College exams and
will be a combination of required DMP rotations in order to complete EPAs as
well as electives geared toward the residents' career plans.



**Educational Program  **

An academic half day is held every Wednesday morning during which time, the
residents are excused from all service responsibilities. This includes
didactic and small group sessions plus teaching at the multihead microscope.
Additional divisional teaching rounds include autospy, quality assurance,
journal club, interesting case and gross-micro rounds. Several subspecialities
provide regular teaching sessions at the multihead microscope. In PGY4 or 5,
each resident has access to $1000 to help fund a conference or review course
without the need to present.



**Research**

The program requires each resident to engage in at least one well-designed
research project.  Opportunities exist in both basic science and clinical
realms. A resident research coordinator is in place to provide support and
guidance.  The resident is expected to present his/her research at the annual
Pathology Departmental Research Day, CAP (or other appropriate conference),
and to attempt to publish the data.  Financial support is provided for PGY2
through PGY5 residents to attend a conference annually at which they are
presenting a paper or poster ($1500).  Residents are required to present a
poster or platform presentation at the annual Pathology Departmental research
day in PGY2 through PGY4.



**Teaching Opportunities**

Residents are essential advocates and teachers for the medical students and
residents rotating through pathology. They regularly teach their peers for a
component of the academic half day. Additional opportunities include medical
school lab instruction and Radiology-Pathology correlation rounds. Senior
residents will also play a greater role in evaluating junior residents in the
CBD model of assessment/evaluation.



**In house exams**

Once a year there is an inhouse exam for PGY2-5 residents that includes all
components (written, practical, oral) of the Royal College exam. A second oral
and practical slide exam is provided every fall. PGY2-5 residents have the
option to write the annual RISE exam.

* * *

# Training Sites

  * QEII Health Sciences Centre, Halifax, NS
  * IWK Health Centre, Halifax, NS
  * NS Medical Examiners Office, Dartmouth, NS
  * Saint John Regional Hospital, Saint John, NB
  * Others may include community hospitals in Truro NS, Fredericton NB, Charlottetown PEI, Moncton NB

_NOTE: All residency programs are required to have 10% of their residency
training outside of Halifax Regional Municipality as stipulated in the most
recent Academic Funding Plan set out by the Department of Health and Wellness.
Please be aware that if matched to Halifax, as part of your training you may
be expected to complete rotations outside central zone but within the maritime
provinces._

Each training site has one or more resident rooms and access to the internet,
scanners, and appropriate software, etc.  Residents have ready access to high
quality digital cameras with dedicated computer and imaging software and a
digital slide scanner.

* * *

# Additional Information

> Join a dynamic program based in one of Canada’s largest health care
> institutions.  The structured teaching schedule, abundant volume of cases
> and wide spectrum of subspecialty expertise will furnish you with an ideal
> environment in which to excel in Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology.
> Institutional centralization (QEII HSC) provides for maximum exposure to a
> large volume of interesting teaching material at one site, and rotations to
> other centres (IWK Children's Hospital, Medical Examiners Office and Saint
> John Regional Hospital in New Brunswick) add diversity, additional expertise
> and a broad perspective on the practice of pathology.  The atmosphere is
> collegial with an emphasis on teaching.  The staff at the main teaching
> hospital (QEII) is youthful and expanding in number.
>
> Annually, pathology specimens in Halifax include >1000 autopsies (150
> hospital, 110 pediatric, 100 neuropathology, 800 medical examiner) plus
> >50,000 surgical and >65,000 cytological specimens. At the IWK, there are
> >3500 surgicals.
>
> When the time comes to relax, you will enjoy the wild beauty of the maritime
> shores, friendly people and an active social life.

* * *

# FAQ

  1. **Where are the training sites and how will I get to work?**   The two sites where residents spend the majority of their time are within a 12 minute walk of each other in downtown Halifax (Mackenzie building at Victoria General Hospital, IWK Children's Hospital)! A number of residents live close by and walk to work. During residency there are two to three months at the Nova Scotia Medical Examiner Service in Dartmouth. This is a 20-30 minute drive from the Victoria General Hospital site, and has free parking. There is also a ~3 month senior rotation in Saint John, NB where accommodation is provided in a building with other residents that is within walking distance of the hospital. Programs are also encouraged to facilitate rotations for residents within the Maritime Provinces but outside Halifax; rotations in community hospitals can provide residents with more graded responsibility and allow residents to explore different career opportunities.

  2. **How will I learn to do autopsies?**  During a one-month rotation at the NS Medical Examiner Service in PGY1, you will be trained to eviscerate and dissect the organ block! Within the first week, you will be applying these new skills to cases with suspected medical cause of death (under supervision of course). Most residents complete around 10 autopsies during this block. 

  3. **Is the training in DMP subspecialty based?** At Dal, you can enjoy a 'hybrid' model of subspecialty and more general sign out. The PGY2 ‘junior DMP’ and PGY5 ‘senior DMP’  rotations include a group or pair of DMP subspecialties (e.g. GI and H&N).  Grouping subspecialties presents an opportunity for longitudinal learning. Residents are also taught by a few general surgical pathologists in Halifax, as well as during community rotations. In PGY3-5, residents rotate through individual subspecialty rotations and electives. 

  4. **What organized social events are there?** Maritime Resident Doctors (MarDocs) organizes tons of free events to help you meet other residents and experience Halifax, including weekly exercise classes (yoga, bootcamp) and approximately one social event per month (axe throwing, paint night, post-exam socials, wine tour, holiday party, etc). 

  5. **Think we’re a small residency program?** Think of us as double the size – DMP plus DCP (together currently 18 residents). Residents in both programs share resident rooms, academic half day, and organize social activities together. 

  6. **Other questions?**  Reach out and ask! 

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26457?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26457