#  University of Calgary - Vascular Surgery - Calgary

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 05, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Kenton Rommens  

Address Vascular Surgery  
3500 - 26 Avenue NE  
East Wing, Room C-5940  
Calgary, Alberta, T1Y 6J4  

Work  403-943-5658

Websites of Interest [ U of C Vascular Surgery
](https://www.uofcvascular.ca/postgraduate-training)  
[ Calgary Vascular Instagram:
](https://instagram.com/uofcvascular?utm_medium=copy_link)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Kenton Rommens

Title: Program Director

Email: Kenton.Rommens@albertahealthservices.ca

Phone: 403-943-5658

  

Name: Michelle MillsRoberts

Title: Program Administrator

Email: michelle.mills@ahs.ca

Phone: 403-943-5658

  

* * *

# Important Information

## **Competency Based Education**

As of July 2021, residents entering a Vascular Surgery will participate in
competency-based training through the Competence by Design (CBD) educational
initiative of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Provincial requirements may change without notice. Please consult:
<https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/pgme/future-trainees/residency> for updates.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

A maximum of 3 letters will be accepted.  References should be from consultant
level physicians.  References are due by the CaRMS reference letter deadline.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1200

  

A personal letter of no longer than 1200 words is required.  The letter should
outline unique aspects of the candidate in addition to the reasons for wishing
to pursue a career and training in Vascular Surgery at the University of
Calgary.  The letter should address what the candidate will contribute to the
training program.

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 30, 2025

Details regarding interview dates:

##  Vascular Surgery Calgary CaRMS Date: January 30, 2025



Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The interviews will be done virtually
in 2025 and we plan the interviews of getting to know the candidates with two
different panels of interviewers, conducted by vascular staff and residents on
each panel. Applicants will be required to provide a back-up telephone number
that they can be reached at during their scheduled interview times in the
event of technical issues with the video conferencing technology.  
  
Every attempt will be made to answer any questions concerning our program.
Interviews are 15 minutes in length per panel.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The Department of Surgery at the University of Calgary is committed to a fair,
equitable, and transparent application process. We maintain the right to
choose the applicants that demonstrate shared values and goals with an
expressed commitment to the residency training program. The following criteria
will be used as a baseline to determine who will be considered for an
interview.

## Program goals

The Vascular Surgery Resident Training Program at the University of Calgary
seeks to provide the highest quality care to patients while supporting the
educational, research, health, and wellness needs of our residents.  The aim
of our program is to provide the best possible environment, technology,
facilities, and human resources in order to facilitate comprehensive education
and training of residents, along with medical students.  

## Selection process goals

When selecting applicants, the interview team looks for a candidate:

  * Has a strong academic standing as a medical student
  * Reference letters that can attest to the applicant's knowledge
  * Good clinical judgement and moral character
  * Demonstrated enthusiasm and committment to the specialty of Vascular Surgery
  * Well-rounded individuals with interests both within and outside of Medicine
  * Good teamwork and leadership ability
  * Excellent self-discipline and a good approach to learning
  * Stress management skills
  * Excellent professionalism

The team also expects a personal letter that clearly outlines why the
applicant wishes to pursue a career in Vascular Surgery in Calgary.  Reference
letters from surgical specialists will be an important factor.  

## File review process

Review team composition : Resident Selection Committee:  
*Program Director  
*Section Chief  
*Two Vascular Surgeons (minimum)  
*Senior Vascular Resident  
*Vascular Residents 

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Ability to work well with teams; Leadership potential; Extracurricular interest   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Electives will be considered for file review.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Extra-curricular interests relating to medicine as well as outside interests   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership potential   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Applicant should be in good standing at their medical school   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Highlight how and why you chose vascular surgery. Demonstrate a strong interest.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Three reference letters from faculty. At least one from a vascular surgeon is preferred, but not required.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Not mandatory but encouraged.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Must not have any failed rotations or remarks of concerns.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Electives in vascular surgery are encouraged but not required.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Understands the importance of working in a team, & how to interact with potentially difficult peers.   
Collegiality |  Reliability; Honesty; Integrity; Kind; Professional; Good listening skills.   
Communication skills |  Clear and concise. Rationale and reasoning for answers verbalized. Compassionate.   
Health advocacy |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Interest in the discipline |  Interest in vascular surgery. At least one elective in vascular surgery.   
Interest in the program |  On-site vascular surgery elective preferred; Knowledge and interest specific to our program.   
Leadership skills |  Potential for leadership to be an effective leader.   
Professionalism |  Ethical decision-making; honesty; capacity for self-directed learning.   
Scholarly activities |  Interest is weighed.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  Performance on local electives if done.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  Any situation, either witnessed or reported, wherein an applicant's
professionalism and honesty are found to be compromised.  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Vascular Surgery service is based at the Peter Lougheed Centre but
provides city wide coverage. We are a large volume center with complex cases.
We have nine dedicated faculty who are keen on teaching residents and medical
students. There are opportunities for research in basic science, clinical
outcomes, and medical education for those interested in pursuing it. Some
trainees may also be interested in the Royal College Clinical Investigator or
Surgeon Scientist Programs.  

The Vascular Surgery Service is closely linked to Interventional Radiology
Services and our groups work together routinely and have joint rounds to add
different perspectives. Our group also works closely with our Cardiac Surgery
colleagues to address complex aortic cases including arch and thoracoabdominal
procedures.

We have two hybrid OR suites that were built specifically for our vascular
surgery, a vascular surgery step down unit and a dedicated vascular ward.  Our
group has a dedicated research coordinator, vascular nurse practitioner, and
an internal medicine team focused on vascular surgery and vascular medical
patients.  We work closely with the podiatrists in the Zivot Limb Preservation
Clinic which is a dedicated limb preservation and vascular risk reduction
clinic located at the Peter Lougheed Centre.



To see **more about our program** , please check out our **website** at
[www.uofcvascular.ca](http://www.uofcvascular.ca "University of Calgary
Vascular Surgery Program")



**Instagram**  <https://instagram.com/uofcvascular?utm_medium=copy_link>



A **Program Information Session** will be held at a later date on Zoom.  You
do not need to pre-register for these sessions.  It is open to all CaRMS
applicants who are interested in our program.  Please check AFMC CANPREPP for
date.











* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

 **Vascular Surgery Program Curriculum**

In the CBD first year, the R1 attends the University of Toronto Boot Camp for
one week and also attends the Surgical Foundations Boot Camp for one week.
Surgical Foundations takes place in the first two years.  A curriculum for all
surgical residents at University of Calgary during the PGY 1 and PGY 2
Surgical Foundations years includes weekly seminars, technical skills
laboratory sessions, online case-based learning modules, Principles of Surgery
Examination Review Lectures, and a series of formative assessments.  

The final three years of CBD Vascular Surgery training are comprised of senior
level rotations as well as enrichment rotations and elective opportunities.

Throughout the 5 years the residents will be exposed to the following:
Vascular Surgery, Surgical Foundations, Internal Medicine, General Surgery
Access, General Surgery Trauma, Cardiac Care, Vascular Anesthesia,
Angiography, Ultrasound & Vascular Lab, Research, Transplant Surgery, ICU,
Podiatry, and Cardiac Surgery.

**Education Sessions**

All surgical residents have protected academic time on Thursday afternoons
from 12- 6 PM.  Vascular Academic half day teaching rounds are from 3:30 -
5:30 PM weekly.  CanMEDS will have four topics per academic year from 1300 -
1420 PM and attendance is mandatory.  Journal Clubs are held about 4 or 5
times a year.

**Vascular Rounds**

For the entire five years of the program, in addition to the weekly vascular
rounds (which address basic and vascular topics), there are also weekly
interventional radiology rounds. QI Rounds are held monthly, and Complex
Aortic Rounds are held every two weeks.  During daily rounds and weekly
vascular rounds, the resident is responsible to demonstrate adequate teaching
skills with junior house staff and associated staff (nursing).

**Research**

Research is highly encouraged for residents to pursue scholarly work while in
the program.  

**Electives**

Elective opportunities and opportunities for rotations at other hospitals
across Canada are possible.

**Evaluations**

All Vascular Surgery CBD Residents will be required to complete EPA
evaluations using the University of Calgary's assessment platform.  There may
also be In-training evaluation reports (ITERS on One45) that reflect the
rotation specific goals and objectives follow every rotation and are read and
signed by the resident. Residents' performance and progress are monitored
closely by the program director and the residency program committee with
regular feedback to the residents.

Residents are invited to provide written evaluations of the teaching
performance of the individual faculty members, to the extent that is possible,
in an anonymous manner.

  

* * *

# Training Sites

Vascular Surgery is a quaternary referral service that is the only source of
vascular care to patients in southern Alberta, western Saskatchewan and
eastern British Columbia, with a catchment population of approximately 3.2
million persons.  

There are five major hospital sites in Calgary that the program covers.  The
Peter Lougheed Centre is where the Vascular Surgery Program is based.  The
Foothills Medical Centre is attached to the University of Calgary Cumming
School of Medicine and is a teaching trauma hospital.  The Alberta Children's
Hospital is an award-winning facility that attends to children from
southeastern British Columbia, all of Alberta and western Saskatchewan.  The
Rockyview General Hospital is a community teaching hospital that includes
general surgery, urology, and ophthalmology.  South Health Campus is Calgary's
newest facility and will have many services offered at the site.  

* * *

# Additional Information

**About Calgary:**

Calgary is a dynamic city of over 1.5 million people located in the Southern
Alberta Foothills.

Within the city of Calgary there are numerous cultural and social amenities.
These include an excellent system of pathways for walking and cycling.  For
those with children there are excellent schools. There is a world class
zoological garden with a prehistoric dinosaur park, Heritage Park and Science
Centre. The world-famous Calgary Stampede is held every July. For sports
enthusiasts, Calgary boasts the NHL's Calgary Flames, CFL's Calgary
Stampeders, AHL's Calgary Wranglers, CPL's Calvary FC, and WHL's Calgary
Hitmen. The city houses the Calgary Philharmonic Orchestra, Alberta Ballet
Company, Alberta Theatre Projects, Calgary Opera, Theatre Calgary, Calgary
National Music Centre Studio Bell, and several annual festivals including the
Calgary Children's Festival, the Calgary Folk Music Festival and the Calgary
Jazz Festival.

Kananaskis Provincial Park, Banff National Park and Lake Louise are within a
one-to-two-hour drive of the city. Yoho, Kootenay, Jasper and Waterton Lakes
National Park are all within a three hours' drive. For outdoor enthusiasts
these areas provide unlimited opportunities for sightseeing, hiking, cycling,
golfing and skiing.

* * *

# FAQ

**Do you have Extended Residency opportunities?**

Calgary Vascular Surgery Program has the accreditation to have a 5 + 2
Program.  Offering an extended residency position is dependent on PGME budget
allocations and is not offered on a regular basis.  We will likely be
accepting an extended resident for the 2025/26 year.

**Do you have a Fellowship Program?**

Cardiac Surgery and Vascular Surgery have a combined fellowship - Advanced
Aortic Fellowship Program.  

<https://libin.ucalgary.ca/trainees/opportunities/learning-
opportunities/training-programs>

Deadlines for applications are October 1 every year.  



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27213?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27213