#  University of Ottawa - Medical Genetics and Genomics - Ottawa

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on October 25, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1 click here

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Joanna Lazier  

Address Medical Genetics  
Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario  
401 Smyth Road  
Ottawa K1H 8L1, Ontario  

Work  (613) 737-7600 x 2826

Websites of Interest [ University Genetics
](https://med.uottawa.ca/pediatrics/pgme/genetics)  
[ University of Ottawa, Faculty of Medicine
](http://www.medicine.uottawa.ca/postgraduate/)  
[ CCMG ](https://www.ccmg-ccgm.org/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Julie Richer

Title: Program Director- Interim

Email: juricher@cheo.on.ca

Phone: 613-737-7600 ext 2826

  

Name: Léonette Poulin

Title: Program Administrator

Email: lpoulin@cheo.on.ca

Phone: 6137377600 x 2826

  

* * *

# Important Information

**All candidates must meet the Ontario Criteria of Eligibility**  found
[here](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-criteria/provincial-
criteria/ontario/).

**COVID-19 vaccination**

Please be aware that most, if not all, hospitals in Ontario have mandatory
COVID-19 vaccination policies in place that require, in the absence of a valid
medical or human rights exemption, proof of vaccination. Acceptable
vaccination must be in accordance with Health Canada. You will be required to
provide an attestation that you meet this requirement as part of the CaRMS
application process and any actual documentation will be collected by the
appropriate institution if matched. These guidelines could change at any time
in accordance with future direction from the Ministry of Health or the
Universities based on information from Public Health.

**MCCQE (Medical Council of Canada qualifying examination) Part 1 results** :

Trainees will be required to disclose their MCCQE Part 1 examination results
if taken, upon entry into any of the University of Ottawa's training programs.
**Please note that the MCCQE Part 1 is  not a requirement to begin
residency.** The purpose of this disclosure is to allow for resources to be
provided to the few residents who would benefit from extra support early in
their residency in an effort to maximize their success.

**Failure to meet or provide proof of any of the stated requirements may
result in an applicant’s file not being reviewed or removed from the Rank
Order List.**

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

All candidates must meet the Ontario criteria of eligibility.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  * Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  * Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  * Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  * Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

We prefer letters from rotation and/or elective supervisors. Letters from
supervising resident or fellow will not be counted as one of the three
requested.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

A personal letter is required. It should be no longer than 1000 words. This
should outline which aspects of a career in clinical genetics are appealing to
the candidate.  It should also explain what personal characteristics make them
suitable for a career in clinical genetics.  It should also describe what
skills the candidate has gained from their previous experience that strengthen
their application to a genetics program. It should also mention their non-
academic pursuits and interests. The personal letter is an opportunity to
bring perspective to the facts outlined in other areas of their application
and it should not simply be a recitation of the CV.

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 24, 2025
  * January 31, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews are planned virtually over the
dates noted.  Another date may be added if needed based on application
volumes.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Formal interviews will be granted to
candidates who are short-listed after a review of completed application forms
and accompanying documents.  Interviews will be standardized. Candidates will
have an opportunity to meet the program director, other geneticists, genetic
counsellors, and current trainees.  Candidates will be asked to present a 10
minute talk, which will be followed by a brief question period, as well as a
formal panel question and answer period.  There will be a formal info session
about the program with the program director and residents.  There will be a
social gathering with the current trainees to learn more about the program,
although this is somewhat separate from the formal interview process.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Preferred candidates will have a demonstrated understanding of genetics and
the role of the Medical Geneticist. This may include an undergraduate or
graduate degree with an emphasis on genetics, however this is not mandatory.
Additional research or work experience in a related field is desirable. In
addition to excellent academic standing, the candidate should have strong
communication and interpersonal skills, and this should be highlighted in
his/her references.

## Program goals

The Medical Genetics and Genomics Residency Training Program at the University
of Ottawa aims to develop a physician's clinical, research and leadership
skills so that they will succeed in a broad range of career options as a
Clinical Geneticist. We provide training in both pediatric and adult Medicine
and Genetics, to develop strong clinicians who have the ability to adequately
assess all patients requiring our care. Our training provides a strong
research grounding and allows the development of research partnerships that
extend beyond residency, and allow our trainees to attain their individual
research related career goals.

## Selection process goals

Successful applicants will:

Have strong academic standing, communication, interpersonal and leadership
skills.  These skills will be important as counselling patients and providing
education to not only patients, but also other members of the medical
community is an important part of the role of a Medical Geneticist.

Will have a proven interest in Medical Genetics and prior exposure to our
specialty.

Enjoy outpatient medicine.

May or may not have a subspecialty of genetics in mind.

May hope to be a clinician or a clinician/researcher in the future.

## File review process

Review team composition : Review team consists of multiple clinical
geneticists, a genetic counsellor, one resident, a metabolics physician and
laboratory geneticist.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  
This varies depending on the number of applicants in a year.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Graduate school experience (if applicable), research publications/experience   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Genetics exposure, understanding and interest in our specialty. We understand that not all applicants will have had an opportunity to do a Genetics elective due to COVID-19, however interactions with Geneticists/overlapping patient populations on other rotations can provide exposure and an opportunity for interest and understanding.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Leadership skills, non-academic interests   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Skills needed to run a team   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic achievement   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest and experience in genetics, other outstanding experiences   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  How applicant functions in clinic, professionalism, interpersonal skills, communication   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Applicant's research experience/publication history   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic achievement   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: It is important that applicants understand the scope of
our specialty. We encourage choosing electives that provide a broad range of
experiences, but also provide exposure to Geneticists and patients with
genetic disorders.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

At the University of Ottawa, we believe the best residents are those who have
been able to explore the breadth of the medical profession through suitable
electives while enrolled in medical school. We do not preferentially rank
applicants who have only pursued electives in genetics.  

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  Applicants are asked to present a short talk about an interesting
patient they have seen as part of the interview.  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  How has applicant previously demonstrated this skill?   
Collegiality |  Would we want to work with this applicant?   
Communication skills |  How has applicant previously demonstrated this skill?   
Health advocacy |  How has applicant previously demonstrated this skill?   
Interest in the discipline |  Has applicant had previous experience, do they understand the scope of practice?   
Interest in the program |  Does applicant have an interest in training in Ottawa in Genetics   
Leadership skills |  How has applicant previously demonstrated this skill?   
Professionalism |  How has applicant previously demonstrated this skill?   
Scholarly activities |  How has applicant previously demonstrated this skill?   
Other interview component(s) |  Talk - Does the presentation show mature insight into a patient encounter? Does applicant follow instructions related to making the presentation? How does applicant communicate? How does applicant handle questions?   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  Social media will not be actively assessed however should concerns
come to the attention of the selection committee these will be taken into
consideration.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Our program is a 5-year program which combines clinical, laboratory and
research rotations. About half of Foundations is spent mostly at The Ottawa
Hospital for adult medicine rotations. The rest of the time is mostly spent at
the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO).

Highlights of our program include:

1.  CHEO has 10 MD Geneticists, 6 PhD Geneticists, 2 Genomic Specialists and 17 Genetic Counsellors,5 Lab Genetic Counsellors a Metabolic Dietitian, a Metabolic Nurse, 3 Metabolic Geneticists and numerous support staff.  Our Physicians all have specific areas of expertise allowing broad exposure to trainees.

2.   CHEO is the site of the newborn screening program for Ontario (Newborn Screening Ontario, NSO), allowing our trainees direct exposure to the early diagnosis and treatment of inherited metabolic disorders. 

3.  CHEO is the lead site for the Care4Rare consortium. The proximity of Care4Rare and other research projects afford our trainees the opportunity to closely interact with world-class researchers, and to be involved in a variety of research projects.

4.  CHEO is the home site of Prenatal Screening Ontario and has links to BORN (Better Outcomes Registry and Network) .  This allows our residents opportunities to enhance their experience in Prenatal Genetics with research projects and teaching in this area.

4.  The trainee office is located in the clinic area. This office also houses non-clinical CCMG fellows in laboratory genetics, so residents and fellows interact daily.

5.  The Genetics Diagnostic Laboratories are located adjacent to the clinic. 

6\. We offer bilingual patient care; however, French is not mandatory for
residents as most of our patient encounters are in English.

7\. Residents complete in-training written and OSCE examinations twice a year
through their Residency. These are done in conjunction with the residents at
McGill and occur in Ottawa in the Spring and in Montreal in the Fall. This
also provides an opportunity to interact with residents and staff at another
Centre.

8\. Formal teaching opportunities include:

  * Residents participate in TeleGRAF (Telehealth for Genetics Residents and Fellows), a monthly teaching seminar delivered by videoconferencing.
  * Weekly Academic Half Days consisting of; 60 minutes of ultrasound rounds with Maternal Fetal Medicine, 60 minutes of Genetics Department Rounds and a 90-minute teaching session dedicated to resident teaching.
  * "Interesting Case Rounds", attended by Residents and Geneticists.
  * Journal Clubs are led by Residents and Fellows.  

9\. Residents are expected to attend and present at one national/international
conference per year. They receive financial support of $2000 per year provided
when presenting at the conference.

10\. There are opportunities for residents to attend outreach Genetics clinics
across Northern Ontario. These are run by the Northern Regional Genetics
Program.

11\. Residents have the opportunity to provide teaching in both formal and
informal settings to medical students and junior residents. Residents provide
half day teaching for Pediatric Residents.

12\. Resident Clinic occurs once a month and allows residents the opportunity
for longitudinal follow up of patients. These clinics are an opportunity for
increased feedback and teaching.

13\. Residents have the opportunity to attend external courses including North
American Metabolic Academy (SIMD/NAMA).

14.  One block of metabolic training is completed at SickKids hospital in Toronto, during the senior years.  This exposure complements that provided at CHEO and allows the experience found at a larger Centre.

15\. We have recently established a first of its kind Genetic counselling co-
curriculum for residents to allow the development of strong counselling
skills, and relationships with genetic counsellors.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Transition to Discipline and Foundations

Residency begins with a Transition to Discipline period, during which time the
trainee will be working closely with Geneticists to gain skills and background
needed on the wards.  Foundations will then round out the majority of the rest
of the two years, and includes rotations on Internal Medicine, Pediatrics,
Maternal-Fetal Medicine and many subspecialties.  Residents are in email
communication with the Medical Genetics Program Director and meet formally
with her every six months.    Residents participate in academic programs
organized by Pediatrics, Internal Medicine and Obstetrics.  Residents also
return to their home program for Genetics academic half-day.  Residents are
encouraged to attend a national or international Genetics/Metabolics
conference during this time.

Core

The clinical component of the senior years of training is based at the
Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO) Clinical Genetics Patient
Service Unit, where there is an active consultative service in clinical
genetics for in-patients and out-patients, including adults as well as
children.  Our catchment area (approximately 1.4 million) encompasses much of
Eastern Ontario and the Western part of Quebec.  Services are offered in
English and French, though French is not mandatory for residents.
[http://www.cheo.on.ca/english/8000_genetics.shtml](http://www.cheo.on.ca/english/8000_genetics.shtml)

Residents participate in the laboratory with rotations in cytogenetics,
molecular genetics and biochemical genetics.  A unique feature of our
residency is that the laboratory component of this year also includes exposure
to the Ontario Newborn Screening program  and training with the Care4Rare
team.

Residents also participate in outpatient and inpatient Genetics and
Metabolics.   This is the period of time when the resident gains fundamental
skills in the care of genetic/metabolic patients.  The resident acquires
experience in genetic counselling through our genetic counselling curriculum.
Residents rotate through blocks in general genetics (dysmorphology,
chromosomal disorders, skeletal dysplasias, neurogenetic conditions, etc),
metabolics (amino acidopathies, organic acidopathies, fatty acid oxidation
disorders, peroxisomal diseases, mitochondrial disorders etc.), prenatal
genetics (aneuploidy screening, prenatal diagnosis, major and minor ultrasound
findings, teratogenic exposures) and cancer genetics (inherited cancer
predisposition syndromes). Opportunities are provided in other areas including
cardiogenetics as well.  Patient load increases over time with graded
responsibility.  Residents have many opportunities to explore their personal
clinical, research and career interests through electives outside of CHEO.
Residents spend one senior block at Sick Kids Hospital gaining additional
metabolic experience.

Transition to Practice

The end of training provides an opportunity for residents to refine skills
they will need for their independent practice.  This includes practice
managing the ward and  teams of trainees and working with teams of genetic
counsellors and others.  Residents will be able to tailor their rotations to
match future career needs, and finish research projects already started.

**Research**  
  

Research is a mandatory part of the program.  Residents are expected to
complete at least one research project, publish in a peer-reviewed journal and
present at a national or international meeting.  Each resident in good
standing will have up to 11 blocks to complete research objectives; research
is also conducted in parallel with clinical training.  All faculty are
actively involved in research of a clinical and/or laboratory nature.
Residents have the opportunity to participate in a variety of projects
currently under way or develop a new project.  Each resident is provided with
$2000/yr of conference funding.  Additional funding is available. Some
residents attend more than one conference a year.

**Seminars**  
  

  1. TeleGRAF (Telehealth for Genetics Residents and Fellows), a monthly teaching seminar delivered by videoconferencing.
  2. Weekly academic half days include 60 minutes of ultrasound rounds with Maternal Fetal Medicine, 60 minutes of Genetics Departmental rounds and a 90 minutes teaching session dedicated to resident teaching on a variety of subjects related to genetics and patient care.
  3. Interesting Case Rounds occurs biweekly.
  4. Journal clubs are conducted monthly, led by residents and fellows.  

Invited international experts commonly visit to speak, and residents have
dedicated time to learn from them.

**Mentorship  **

We have a buddy program, pairing R1s with R3s.

We also have mentorship nights which provide an opportunity for residents to
ask questions of staff Geneticists in an informal setting.

Residents are assigned a Genetic Counsellor- mentor to help guide their
counselling training in senior years.

**Counselling co-curriculum**

We are proud to have a co-curriculum focused on counselling skills including
dedicated time with genetic counselors, a genetic counseling mentorship
program, and time with other allied health staff.

* * *

# Training Sites

1.  The Ottawa Hospital:

     \- Ottawa General Hospital - 501 Smyth Road, Ottawa, Ontario K1H 8L6

     \- Civic Hospital - 1053 Carling Avenue, Ottawa, Ontario K1Y 4E9

     \- Riverside Hospital - 1967 Riverside Drive, Ottawa, Ontario K1H 7W9

2.  CHEO - 401 Smyth Road, Ottawa, Ontario K1H 8L1

3.  The Hospital for Sick Children - 555 University Avenue, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1X8 (one block), or other large centre

* * *

# Additional Information

**Call requirements:**

1.  In Foundations, in general, residents are expected to take call for the services they are on.  This may include general pediatrics call while on a pediatric subspecialty.    
2.  In senior years, residents take home call for genetics and Metabolics. Call is split equally between residents and respects the PARO contract.



**Team building:**

An annual team building event occurs each summer.  Past activities have
included:  Kayaking, escape room, white water rafting, ziplining, and stand-up
paddling. Residents help organize and choose the activity.



 PanCanadian Medical Student info session on Medical Genetics

November 18, 2024

19:30 - 21:00 EST

To register:

<https://forms.gle/1B4SARMko8TFApNj8>

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27119?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27119