#  Dalhousie University - Pediatrics - Halifax  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on October 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 6

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Robyn McLaughlin  

Address Pediatrics  
IWK Health Centre  
5850/5980 University Avenue  
Halifax , Nova Scotia, B3K 6R8  

Work  (902) 470-8119

Work

Websites of Interest [ Dalhousie Pediatrics Residency Program
](https://medicine.dal.ca/departments/department-
sites/pediatrics/education/residency-program.html)  
[ Dal_Peds YouTube (tour, meet the residents)
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0Bh6DSz8V_qcUquro5xjNQ/)  
[ Dalhousie University ](https://www.dal.ca/)  
[ IWK Health Centre ](https://iwkhealth.ca/)  
[ Department of Pediatrics ](https://medicine.dal.ca/departments/department-
sites/pediatrics.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Mrs. Alicia MacDonald

Title: Coordinator

Email: alicia.macdonald@iwk.nshealth.ca

Phone: 902-470-8119

  

* * *

# Important Information

Hello everyone! We are so happy to see you are interested in learning more
about our Dalhousie Pediatric Residency! Please consider also joining us for
one of our virtual chats to learn more and meet some of our group
(<https://canprepp.ca/>)

The majority of our residency training takes place at the IWK Health Centre,
which serves as the pediatric hospital for Halifax Regional Municipality
(HRM). The IWK is also the tertiary care pediatric referral centre for the
three Maritime provinces.  Here you can get exposure to ambulatory pediatrics,
inpatient pediatrics, PICU, NICU, the pediatric sub-specialty services, all in
one building. But pediatric training isn’t limited to the IWK- Dalhousie
University has a goal of having 10% of training outside of HRM and our
residents love their community pediatric rotations! We pride ourselves on our
close-knit pediatric community within the IWK Health Centre, and across the
Maritimes.

We are a mid-sized program, and that really allows for exposure to the full
range of pediatric opportunities while also allowing for lots of time one-on-
one for teaching, coaching and mentorship. All our residents will receive
training to develop strong foundation in core pediatric knowledge and skills,
but we also strive to help residents develop and reach their own personal
learning and career goals. We also think Halifax is a pretty awesome place to
live and work.

We are looking for residents who are well-rounded, strong communicators,
problem solvers, team players, and curious learners. We recognize that there
are many paths to pediatrics and many different ways to use your application
to show you possess these traits. We are excited to learn more about you, and
your interest in pediatrics!

_Robyn_



Robyn McLaughlin

Program Director



**Please note:**

-Applicants are responsible for reviewing Dalhousie University Eligibility Information (<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-criteria/nova-scotia-new-brunswick-pei/>) to determine if they meet all requirements and eligibility criteria. Failure to meet or provide proof of any of the stated requirements or documents may result in an applicant’s file not being reviewed or ranked.

-To obtain a postgraduate training license in Nova Scotia after the conclusion of the match, applicants must have registered and challenged the Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Exam Part 1 (MCCQE 1) by July 1, 2025.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

####  You must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident _**at the time of
application**_.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. Please do not send more than three
letters. No late references will be accepted. Letters will not be made
available to candidates.

Two of your letters must come from faculty supervisors, while the third can be
from either a faculty supervisor or a senior resident. The best letters will
come from people who have worked directly with you and can comment on your
interest and proficiency in pediatrics, initiative, knowledge base,
communication and interpersonal skills, problem solving skills, and/or other
attributes.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

This is your chance to tell us about who you are! We will review your CV
separately, so you need not list everything here. However, you may wish to
tell us about a specific experience that has been meaningful to you and/or
what you learned from that activity. We want to know why you are interested in
pediatrics and why you think you’d be a great fit. We value diversity and
there are many ways that candidates can demonstrate personal qualities. If you
have relevant experiences which may not be applicable to a CV or may not be
obvious to reviewers you could consider highlighting those experiences in your
letter.

Custom Résumé / CV

Please include enough detail so that reviewers who are unfamiliar with a
particular award or activity will understand the significance of that item on
your CV. It is helpful to provide duration of involvement or number of hours
of an activity so file reviewers can have adequate information to assess your
involvement. If listing research projects, please list your role in the
project. If you had a major leadership role in an extracurricular please
highlight it.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry

**Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry and/or Self-Identification of Black
Learners**

We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. Any responses received will be used only to support our
program’s and Dalhousie’s equity, diversity, and inclusion goals.

We invite applicable candidates to also complete Dalhousie’s verification
process for Indigenous identity, membership, or citizenship; or the self-
identification process for those who identify as Black.



**Conditionally required**

Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry

If you have self-identified as Indigenous, we require additional information.

Applicants shall provide a certified copy of one or more of the following
documents with their application:

  1. A Certificate of Indian Status issued by the Government of Canada, or a First Nation recognized by the Government of Canada;
  2. Written confirmation of membership or citizenship with a federally recognized band or tribal authority in the United States or Canada;
  3. Written confirmation of Inuit enrolment or a copy of an Inuit enrolment/beneficiary card issued by a modern Inuit treaty organization or government as follows:  
3.1 Inuvialuit Regional Corporation;  
3.2 Nunavut Tunngavik Incorporated;  
3.3 Makivik Corporation;  
3.4 Nunatsiavut Government;

  4. Written confirmation of Métis citizenship/membership or a copy of a Métis citizenship/membership card provided by a Métis government as follows:  
4.1 Métis National Council governing members:  
4.2 Métis Nation – Saskatchewan;  
4.3 Métis Nation of Alberta;  
4.4 Métis Nation British Columbia;  
4.5 Métis Nation of Ontario;  
4.6 Manitoba Métis Federation;  
4.7 Métis Settlements of Alberta.

Applicants who do not supply any of the documents listed above shall supply a
250-word statement with applicable supporting documentation that demonstrates
how they meet the citizenship or membership criteria established by the
recognized Indigenous nation to which they claim membership or citizenship.

The above information is only made available to Dalhousie PGME, Program
Director, and Program Manager of applicable training programs and will only be
used for purposes of the CaRMS matching process.

Please see below for the certification of documents.

# Certification of Documents

Documents may be certified by one of the following professionals:

  1. Accountant
  2. Chief of a First Nations Band
  3. Commissioner for Oaths
  4. Employee of a Service Canada Centre acting in an official capacity
  5. Funeral Director
  6. Justice of the Peace
  7. Lawyer, Magistrate, or Notary
  8. Manager of a Financial Institution
  9. Regulated Medical or Health Practitioner
  10. Member of Parliament or their staff
  11. Member of a Provincial/Territorial Legislature or their staff
  12. Minister of Religion
  13. Municipal Clerk
  14. Official of a Federal/Provincial/Indigenous Government Department or one of its agencies
  15. Official of an Embassy, Consulate, or High Commission
  16. Police Officer
  17. Professional Engineer
  18. Social Worker
  19. Teacher
  20. University Professor or Staff

The person certifying the document(s) must:

  1. Compare the original to the copy
  2. State their official position or title
  3. Print their name
  4. Sign their name
  5. Write the date they certified the document
  6. Provide their telephone number
  7. Write the following statement: This is a true copy of the original document, which has not been altered in any way

**Conditionally required**

Self-identification Process for Black Learners

If you self-identify as Black, please complete the following questions, and
include with your application:

1\. **Do you self-identify as Black?**

Yes/No

2.**If yes, please choose the category you identify most with:**

a. African Nova Scotian*

b. Black Maritimer

i. Nova Scotia without ties to a historic African Nova Scotian community

ii. New Brunswick

iii. Prince Edward Island

c. Black Canadian

d. Multiracial

i. African Nova Scotian and ______

ii. Black Maritimer and ________

iii. Black Canadian and _________

iv. Black and Indigenous

3\. **In 500 words or less, please speak to the self-identification category
you chose above. Include things to highlight your connection to Black
community as well as your lineage. If you chose African Nova Scotian, note
Dalhousie uses the following definition from the African Nova Scotian
Strategy, and we ask you speak to your specific land-based community.**

* “African Nova Scotians are a distinct People who descend from free and enslaved Black Planters, Black Loyalists, Black Refugees, Maroons and other Black people who inhabited the original 52 land-based Black communities in that part of Mi’kma’ki known as Nova Scotia.” ([African Nova Scotian Strategy](https://www.dal.ca/about/mission-vision-values/equity-diversity-inclusion-and-accessibility/about-office-equity-inclusion.html#:~:text=WHAT%20IS%20THE%20AFRICAN%20NOVA,with%20African%20Nova%20Scotian%20communities))



All self-identification documentation will be reviewed by the Black faculty
leadership within the Faculty of Medicine.



Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire or to complete Dalhousie’s verification process, but for those
that do feel comfortable doing so the information received would only be used
to advantage those who would contribute to the diversity of our community.

Optional - will be reviewed

Self-identification questionnaire

We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. Any responses received will be used only to support our
program’s and Dalhousie’s equity, diversity, and inclusion goals.

Additionally, we invite applicable candidates to also complete Dalhousie’s
verification process for Indigenous identity, membership, or citizenship.

Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire or to complete Dalhousie’s verification process, but for those
that do feel comfortable doing so the information received would only be used
to advantage those who would contribute to the diversity of our community.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Each file is initially reviewed by a resident and a faculty member using a
scoring sheet.  This review is used to select candidates for interviews.  At
the time of the interview, only the Program Director will re-review your file.
The other interviewers will NOT review your file, to all for a less biased,
more open interview.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interview dates are January 20-23, 2025.
Offers for interviews will go out January 13, 2025.  Deadline to respond is
January 15, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All applications are carefully and
independently reviewed by two members of the Selection Committee using a
scoring sheet.  All applications are then rank ordered with interviews offered
to the top 96.  
  
Applicants to be interviewed will be sent an e-mail notification on January
13, 2025 and will include instructions on accessing an online self-scheduling
tool.  The deadline for the applicant to respond in order to request an
interview is January 15, 2025. Interviews will be offered on:  January 20,
January 21, January 22 and January 23, 2025.  
  
Each interviewee will have three short virtual interviews; one with the
Program Director, one with two faculty members, and one with two residents.
Your interviews are clustered into a half-day, either in the morning or
afternoon.  
  
The interview includes standardized interview questions and scenarios. Each
interview will have some time at the end for interviewees to ask their
questions and learn more about our program. Rank ordering of candidates
follows the interview process.  
  
There will be a virtual social activity planned (details will be included in
the interview offer).  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We look for well-rounded individuals who are hard workers, problem solvers,
strong communicators, team players, leaders and learners.  Your academic
record, extracurricular activities, community and research involvement help us
identify these traits.

## Program goals

All our residents will receive training to develop a strong foundation in core
pediatric knowledge and skill. In addition, we will facilitate trainees to
reach their individual learning and career goals.

We will continue to teach the skills to be successful in scholarly work and
community advocacy, and coach and support residents to remain enthusiastic in
continuing pursuing these important areas during their future careers.

We place an emphasis on communication skills and team work and select
residents with these attributes. Additionally, we provide opportunities to
practice and hone these skills further.

We will encourage our residents to look after themselves and each other and
will support them in extracurricular activities and self-care. We will support
our residents in their transition to the roles and responsibilities of
residency, and later to independent practice.

## Selection process goals

Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability and enthusiasm to learn
pediatrics.

Identify applicants who have insight into areas of relative weakness and have
lifelong learning strategies.

Identify applicants who have strong communications skills.

Identify applicants who can work collaboratively in a team setting.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated commitment to their communities.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated organizational, time management
skills and coping strategies to manage the multiple demands of residency.

Dalhousie is committed to fostering a collegial culture grounded in diversity
and inclusiveness. The university encourages applications from Indigenous
persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women, persons of a
minority sexual orientation and/or gender identity, and all candidates who
would contribute to the diversity of our community.

Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire or to complete the verification process for Indigenous identity,
membership, or citizenship, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so
the information received would only be used to advantage those who would
contribute to the diversity of our community.

Any self identification questionnaires received and the results of the
verification process will be reviewed as part of our file review process, and
used as an aid for file reviewers in selecting a diverse group of candidates
for interviews. Information received may also be used by the program to adjust
final rankings, at the discretion of the selection committee, to address
issues of program priority and diversity.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team consists of 4 faculty and 4
residents. Files are divided into 4 groups, reviewed independently by 1
faculty and 1 resident pair using a scoring sheet, and assigned a team score.
The review team then meets to make the final interview offer list (facilitated
by the PD).

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  
There are 96 interview spots.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Research involvement, Extracurricular involvement, Community Involvement, Special awards.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Not mandatory to have electives at Dalhousie, but if electives mostly in another specialty helpful to explain why in personal letter.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Not reviewed.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Extra-curricular involvement/commitment during medical school. Initiatives, leadership, commitment.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Demonstrated leadership skills during medical school (ie leadership roles in school or community or extracurricular or employment).   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Describing overall performance in medical school.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Reflecting and learning from experiences, growth mindset, interest in pediatrics,   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive reference letters commenting on attributes and experiences applicable to residency.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Degree of involvement with research; Number of publications/presentation.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Transcripts are not reviewed.   
Other file component(s) |  We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete confidentiality. Any responses received will be used only to support our programs and Dalhousie’s equity, diversity, and inclusion goals. Responses received will not be used by the program for any purpose with the exception of this year’s first iteration match.  
  
Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so the information
received would only be used to advantage those who would contribute to the
diversity of our community. Several Dalhousie University programs, including
our program, are using this questionnaire this year with the support of the
Dalhousie University Faculty of Medicine and of CaRMS.  
  
Complete the form within your CaRMS Online account and assign it as part of
your application package  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Our program values a broad range of electives, both
within and outside of Pediatrics. For electives in Pediatrics, the program may
contact any elective supervisor listed on your CaRMs application.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Assessed in interview questions/scenarios   
Collegiality |  Demonstration of support for colleagues & insight to colleague in difficulty through interview questions/scenarios   
Communication skills |  Demonstration of effective, organized communication is an essential component in all the questions/scenarios. Some questions/scenarios assess knowledge of communication skills.   
Health advocacy |  Recognition and demonstration of health advocacy is assessed during questions/scenarios   
Interest in the discipline |  Assessed during the interview questions   
Interest in the program |  Assessed during the interview questions   
Leadership skills |  We do not evaluate this during our interview component. This is gathered from file review.   
Professionalism |  Ethical approach, commitment to patient care, and insight into own limitations assessed during questions/scenarios   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this during our interview component. This is gathered from file review.   
Other interview component(s) |  We will try to accommodate requests to reschedule interviews for applicants. Requests made as early as possible will be easiest to accommodate.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Our program meets all accreditation standards laid out by the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. All accredited pediatric residency programs
in Canada are excellent and we all have many similarities in our curriculum.
But there are many different approaches possible to meet the same objectives.
In the interest of giving candidates as much information as possible we are
including a detailed curriculum description- we’d be happy to answer any
specific curriculum questions you have either in our pre-CaRMS info nights or
during the interview process. We continually review our program and we value
resident input- so changes are made year to year.  

We have been fully immersed in competence by design since July 2021.
Residents must finish all 4 stages of pediatrics before moving to subspecialty
training unless the individual subspecialty program can guarantee that they
can provide the experience and evaluation to complete the remaining EPAs and
required training experiences.  For most residents this will take 4 years.
This is a national change, not specific to Dalhousie.

PGY1 (Transition to Practice/Foundation Stage)

The ﬁrst couple of months of PGY1 is now called Transition to Discipline.
Residents will generally complete one rotation on the Pediatric Medical Unit,
one rotation of pediatric emergency medicine and one rotation of outpatient
clinics (either cardiology, respirology, GI or the junior clinic rotation
which is a mix of general pediatrics and other clinics such as ENT and
dermatology). During this time residents do buddy call with a more senior
resident. During the first 2 months, first year residents also have a
longitudinal orientation with learning sessions every Tuesday.

Once the EPAs and other requirements have been completed for Transition to
Discipline residents will move to Foundations of Discipline.  Residents will
complete 2 further blocks (4 weeks X2) on the Pediatric Medical Unit, 2 weeks
of normal newborns, 2 weeks of introduction to NICU and 4 weeks of Neonatal
Intensive Care (level II), 4 weeks of pediatric surgery, 4 weeks of community
pediatrics (outside of Halifax Regional Municipality but within the Maritimes,
some exceptions apply with prior approval from Program Director*), 4 weeks
Academic Skills Course, 12 weeks of subspecialty rotations (3 of cardiology,
nephrology, respirology, gastroenterology or junior clinics).  Residents get 4
weeks of vacation, timing to be negotiated with program.

*Travel expenses are reimbursed if done outside of the Halifax Regional Municipality, but within the Maritimes.



PGY2 (Foundation/Core Stage)

During the second year of training, rotations include 4 weeks in the Pediatric
Intensive Care Unit, 8 weeks in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (Level III),
2 weeks in pediatric anesthesia and 4 weeks in adolescent/social pediatrics.
Residents will have a four-week rotation on the Pediatric Medical Unit and
8-10 weeks of subspecialty rotations which may include: hematology/oncology,
neurology, nephrology, cardiology, gastroenterology, infectious diseases,
rheumatology, allergy/immunology, genetics, endocrine, and respirology.
Residents will do one four-week elective block and one four week community
pediatrics block (or may do an additional elective depending on career goals).
Electives may be taken within the IWK Health Centre or Dalhousie University,
but may also be taken in another centre, providing pediatric exposure in
another environment. Trainees often leave the metropolitan area for electives.
Trainees can also go outside of Canada and North America. Residents also have
2, two-week rotations in research and a two-week rotation in the Emergency
Department. In PGY2 residents also start participating in a Continuity Clinic
once/month.

There is also a mandatory 6-week rotation in general pediatrics at the Saint
John Regional Hospital in Saint John, New Brunswick. This hospital is linked
closely to the IWK and has a wide range of inpatient general and subspecialty
pediatric services plus many outreach consultant pediatric clinics. Here,
residents will spend 6 weeks of their time supervising family medicine
trainees and clinical clerks on a general inpatient pediatric ward and in the
ambulatory clinics. Some time is also spent in the NICU. Trainees also have
opportunity to participate in the clinic setting in smaller communities
outside the Saint John region, or in oﬃces of the Saint John pediatricians.

Transportation to these clinics is made available and trainees ﬁnd this
experience exceedingly relevant and rewarding as they have the opportunity to
see ﬁrst hand the life of a community consultant pediatrician. This experience
also provides junior trainees with the ability to act at a more senior level,
supervising the more junior house staﬀ. The health problems of the patient
population seen, are wide and comprehensive providing an excellent general
pediatric experience.

Resident housing in Saint John is provided in the form of apartments close to
the hospital. Family accommodation may be available if requested 4 months in
advance.  Transportation costs are reimbursed to the resident.

At some point during the PGY2 year most residents will move to Core of
Discipline.





PGY3 (Core Stage)

Mandatory rotations include: 8 weeks of general inpatient pediatrics as the
senior resident, 4 weeks of emergency pediatrics, 4 weeks of pediatric
intensive care, 4 weeks of neonatology, 4 weeks of developmental pediatrics, 4
weeks with the Suspected Trauma and Abuse Response Team, 4 weeks in Child
Psychiatry and 4 weeks in Emergency Department. Selectives in this year may
include other pediatric subspecialty rotations (those listed under PGY2,
rehab, senior clinics, senior teacher and palliative care), medical education
and research.

In the PGY3 year there is an elective four-week block and a 4 week community
pediatrics block.  Electives may be taken within the IWK Health Centre or
Dalhousie University, but may also be taken in another centre, providing
pediatric exposure in another environment. Trainees often leave the
metropolitan area for electives.  Trainees can go outside of Canada and North
America as well.  Of the 4 elective/community pediatric blocks in PGY2/PGY3
years, 1 block of 4 weeks must be community and 1 block of 4 weeks must be
done outside of Halifax Regional Municipality but with in the Maritimes.

Residents continue with their monthly Continuity Clinic.

  
  

PGY4 (Core/Transition to Practice Stage)

Core of Discipline will generally continue into the PGY4 year.  Once
completed, residents will move to Transition to Practice.  During the PGY4
year (Core/Transition to Practice stage), residents spend 4 weeks as a senior
supervising resident in an approved Maritime centre on the inpatient unit or
in a community setting (junior attending), 2 weeks as admitting senior on PMU
and 2 weeks of night float (call). They also do 4 weeks in NICU + Community, 4
weeks Complex Care (2 weeks of palliative care and 2 weeks of rehab) and 8
weeks of senior clinics. In the fourth year, there is also one four-week
elective period and again residents may use this time either here at the IWK
or Dalhousie University or travel to another centre.

The remainder of the PGY 4 year is spent in four- or six-week selectives based
on the resident's career plans and identified areas for further study as well
as working on the remaining Transition to Practice EPAs and required training
experiences (including experience in palliative and complex care and a focus
on quality improvement, patient safety and teaching skills). Residents
continue their monthly Continuity Clinic.

Research

A minimum of one scholarly project is required to be completed during
pediatric residency. All residents take a comprehensive Academic Skills Course
in their ﬁrst year. This course will cover research methodology, grant writing
and submissions to the Ethics Review Board. Four weeks of research time is
provided in the PGY2 year with more time permitted and encouraged in the third
and fourth years of training to facilitate the completion of their scholarly
project.

The Department of Pediatrics does subsidize resident travel to one educational
meeting per year (up to $1,500.00), for CME, and full reimbursement if the
resident is presenting. Trainees are encouraged to attend national or
international meetings to present the results of their research at these
meetings. An annual Resident Research Day is held in the spring of each year,
where pediatric trainees are encouraged to present.

Academic Half Day

Four hours per week are spent in seminars/rounds speciﬁcally directed to
pediatric trainees. Trainees are excused from their other duties to attend
these seminars/rounds and are expected to be there if working in the IWK
Health Centre or in close proximity. Academic Half Day occurs in person, with
a Zoom option for residents on away rotations who wish to join. Basic clinical
sciences relevant to pediatrics as well as communication, collaboration,
scholarship, leadership, professionalism and advocacy are covered in this
format. The curriculum runs over three years and includes seminars in all
major subspecialties as well as seminars in Dentistry, Nutrition, Pharmacology
and Psychology. The last hour of Academic Half Day is generally resident run
in consultation with a preceptor and rotates between clinical case rounds,
journal club and patient safety rounds. 3 full half days per year are
dedicated to simulation.

Fourth year residents will participate in separate Academic Half Days focused
on transition to practice.

Mock codes (with low and high ﬁdelity simulation) are held every Thursday
morning (except over the summer).

On-Call Responsibilities  
  

Residents in the first and second year of the program are on a max of 7 call
per block; in the third and fourth year, a max of 6 call per block, with a
reduction to max 4 call per block during designated “study months” prior to
written and OSCE exams (“study months” determined annually based on exam dates
but approximately 11-12 blocks). Residents after a night on call, go off duty
after morning sign-over.

Residents work shifts when working in the Emergency Department.



* * *

# Training Sites

The IWK Health Centre is both a teaching hospital and a research centre. It is
the tertiary care pediatric referral centre for Canada's three Maritime
Provinces - Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and Prince Edward Island. This
hospital serves as the pediatric hospital for the Halifax Regional
Municipality (population base approximately 430,000). It is the only hospital
in the metropolitan area that admits children, so it provides primary,
secondary, and tertiary care and thus provides trainees the opportunity to
see, in both ambulatory and inpatient environment, patients with problems in
the primary, secondary and tertiary care areas.

This institution is also the maternity site for all normal and high-risk
deliveries within the metropolitan area and serves as the referral site for
all high-risk deliveries for the provinces of Nova Scotia and Prince Edward
Island. There are approximately 4500 obstetrical deliveries per year. There is
an extremely busy Neonatal Intensive Care Unit to provide a broad range of
neonatal exposures for residents.

There are approximately 28,500 visits to the Emergency, 75,000 pediatric
ambulatory clinic visits, 1,100 Pediatric Medicine discharges, 450 Pediatric
Surgery discharges, and 1000 admissions to the NICU. The Pediatric Intensive
Care Unit is busy providing services for a broad range of intensive care
problems. There are approximately 400 admissions to the PICU.

General and subspecialty medical and surgical services are all well
represented in this institution to ensure optimum care for this diverse
pediatric patient group. In addition, all general gynecological services for
women in the metropolitan area are provided through this hospital complex. For
more information about Dalhousie University, Pediatrics and the IWK Health
Centre, visit their websites at: Dalhousie University, Department of
Pediatrics and IWK Health

Electronic resources: There is a computer available solely for resident use in
the resident lounge, shared computers in Research Services and additional
computer facilities in the Health Sciences Library at the IWK.  Additional
computers are available in all patient care areas/units.

Rotations outside Halifax:

  * Saint John Rotation - Residents in the PGY2 year will spend 6 weeks at the Saint John Regional Hospital, in Saint John, New Brunswick.  This is the major tertiary care centre for New Brunswick. There is a separate pediatric unit, with an inpatient unit and ambulatory clinics. There is a NICU, and beds for pediatric ICU. Resident housing is provided in the form of apartments close to the hospital. Family accommodation can be arranged if required. One round trip of transportation is reimbursed.
  * Community Pediatrics – Residents must do Community Pediatrics in ﬁrst year and one more in either second or third year; however, there is the opportunity to do additional Community Pediatrics rotations in second and third years if residents choose. There are a variety of community pediatrics placements within Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island for residents to choose from. Residents can also choose to go outside the Maritime Provinces with the program directors approval.
  * Junior Attending - Residents in PGY4 year will spend 4 weeks as the senior resident (Jr attending) in an outpatient unit in the Maritimes.  Residents may choose from an approved location, or propose a different location with the approval of the Program Director.
  * Community Psychiatry - Residents in PGY4 year will spend 4 weeks in community psychiatry.  The details of this rotation are currently being worked out.
  * Other rotations – All residency programs at Dalhousie are now required to have 10% of their training outside of Halifax Regional Municipality (but within the maritime provinces) as stipulated in the most recent Academic Funding Plan set out by the Department of Health and Wellness.   There are many excellent learning opportunities outside of Halifax and residents will likely be able to pick from a variety of choices (e.g. doing one of level II NICU rotations in another center, more community pediatrics rotations)
  * Details about electives are discussed elsewhere in the text.  Travel and accommodation expenses for electives done in Nova Scotia (outside of the Halifax Regional Municipality) are reimbursed to residents.

Ratio of residents to faculty is 1:3

Average patient load depends on the location. The busiest rotations are the
Pediatric Medicine Unit where there is a senior and junior resident plus
clinical clerks and the NICU.

Dalhousie University and the IWK offer pediatric subspecialty training in the
areas of: Allergy/Immunology, Cardiology, Neurology, Neonatology, Infectious
Diseases, Hematology/Oncology and Emergency Medicine.

Our pediatric program has the opportunity to provide primary, secondary and
tertiary care exposure to trainees within a single site. In addition, we are
in very close proximity to the medical school and are in fact on the campus of
Dalhousie University, within easy walking distance to the Dalplex sport
facilities, the medical library and the main university library. We are also
within walking distance of much housing, in the form of flats and apartment
complexes in larger buildings and residential single unit homes. We are close
to the Spring Garden Road shopping centre, one of the most frequented retail
areas within the city. Many residents are able to live within easy walking or
biking distance from the hospital.

Our program is of moderate size and offers all residents within their core
training the opportunity to experience significant exposure to general
pediatrics, both from the inpatient and ambulatory perspective, and to rotate
through all major subspecialties. Although we have a number of subspecialty
fellowship training programs, our program is such that residents are usually
directly supervised by the attending staff, and therefore have the opportunity
to deal as the first-line physician with the majority of patients entering our
hospital, either for ambulatory or inpatient services. Trainees come to know
our faculty on a personal level and receive a great deal of one-to-one
teaching. Our program attracts individuals who: like to have clinical
responsibility early on in training, are self-starters, and enjoy the
opportunity to develop procedural skill expertise. Supervision is very close
but trainees have the opportunity to learn and make decisions at an early
level. In addition, our trainees are encouraged to participate in the teaching
of more junior medical staff, and occasionally have the opportunity to
participate in the teaching of other medical and paramedical personnel.

All trainees attend a Neonatal Resuscitation Program, a Pediatric Advanced
Life Support course and ACORN (Advanced Care of At Risk Newborn).

* * *

# Additional Information

Vacation

Each resident has four weeks of paid vacation per year plus six days over the
Christmas/New Year period.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26297?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26297