#  University of Saskatchewan - Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation - Saskatoon  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on January 15, 2025

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Shane Wunder  
Dr. Brendan Kushneriuk  

Address Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation  
Wascana Rehabilitation Centre, Regina SK  
and Saskatoon City Hospital 701 Queen Street, Saskatoon, SK S7K 0M7  
  

Work  (306) 966-7677

Work  (306) 655-8813

Websites of Interest [ Department of Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation
](https://medicine.usask.ca/department/clinical/physical-medicine.php)  
[ Explore the PM&R; program at the U of S
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WUUZmVA7wJ8)  
[ Discover all that College of Medicine, Regina Campus offers when pursuing
your residency training ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3mSZ8Zz38IU)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Amy Hildebrandt

Title: Program Administrator

Email: pmr@usask.ca

  

Name: Brendan Kushneriuk

Title: Program Co-Director

  

Name: Shane Wunder

Title: Program Co-Director

  

* * *

# Important Information

Applicants are responsible for reviewing the [University of Saskatchewan
Policies for the R-1 Match](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/saskatchewan/) to determine if they meet all
requirements and eligibility criteria. Failure to meet or provide proof of any
of the stated requirements or documents may result in an applicant’s file not
being reviewed or ranked.

**Casper Test**  
All applicants must complete the Casper test. Please refer to the Examinations
section for more information.

**Licensing  
** Matched applicants must be eligible for an educational register license
with the [College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Registration___Licensure/web/Applicants/Licensure/Registration_and_Licensure_Landing.aspx?hkey=75b022f8-df64-4f34-8e2a-a09bea881787)
(CPSS) for a July 1st start date and must maintain eligibility for an
educational register license throughout their entire training program. Matched
applicants who are graduating in the spring will need to provide a copy of
their medical degree/diploma to the PGME office and the College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Saskatchewan (CPSS) prior to the start of residency training.
Any delays in providing all required documentation to CPSS may result in the
following:

  * delay in issuance of an educational register license and a delay in start of postgraduate training beyond July 1st
  * release from CaRMS match contract

**Applicants completing medical education at the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)**  are
required to submit proof of English language proficiency before the rank order
deadline to demonstrate they meet CPSS requirements. More information is
available under Supporting Documentation-Language Proficiency.

**NOTE:**  Applicants who are considering a delay to their convocation date
must be aware that a medical degree cannot be issued to a student until they
have convocated. CPSS bylaws require that new residents must have received
their medical degree prior to the commencement of residency training. Choosing
to delay convocation will affect a matched applicant’s ability to commence
their residency training program in Saskatchewan on July 1. Please refer to
the [U of S CaRMS Deferral Policy](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/carms-
deferral-of-training-start-date---match-violation-release-from-
match.php#relatedForms) for additional information.

**Credentialing**  
In order to commence and continue in Postgraduate Medical Education training
programs, matched applicants must be eligible for and maintain privileges
within the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) as determined by their
credentialing process. The Saskatchewan Health Authority requires successful
applicants to submit immunization records and a current criminal record check
as part of their pre-resident application for appointment. Applicants with
criminal records will be considered on a case by case basis by the College of
Medicine in consultation with the Health Authority.

Any delays in providing all required documentation to the Saskatchewan Health
Authority may result in a delay in the start of postgraduate training beyond
July 1st.

**Resident Boot Camp  
** All matched applicants must attend a mandatory three-day Resident Boot Camp
scheduled for late June. The purpose of the Boot Camp is to provide additional
support to trainees as they transition to residency by introducing and
consolidating baseline skills and knowledge needed to flourish during their
residency years. The program will include interactive case-based and hands-on
practice sessions. Stipends will be provided to trainees.

Attendance is required and absences are only permitted in exceptional
circumstances, with prior approval of PGME.

**Advanced Cardiac Life Support  
** Matched applicants are required to provide proof of ACLS certification
(current as of July 1, 2025) to the PGME office prior to starting their
training program. The ACLS course must be endorsed by the Heart and Stroke
Foundation of Canada and/or the American Heart Association. ACLS training that
is not certified by these two organizations and/or is completed entirely
through an online course will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for
all costs associated with obtaining ACLS certification.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

All required documentation must be submitted prior to file review deadlines to
be considered.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

All applicants must be Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents at the time of
application and must submit a notarized/certified photocopy of one of the
accepted citizenship documents.

Proof of citizenship must be current at the time of application and expired
documents will not be accepted.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language assessment document accepted:**  IELTS Academic

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum of 7.0 in each of the components

**Language assessment document accepted:**

  1. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on paper at a test venue
  2. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine on a computer at a test venue
  3. Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine at Home

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:** Minimum grade of B

**Language assessment document accepted:**  Canadian English Language
Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

  * **Document validity (not expired) by:** Must be valid up to and including July 1, 2025
  * **Minimum score:  **Minimum grade of 9 in all sections

Applicants may be required to provide proof of proficiency in the English
language to meet licensing requirements of the [College of Physicians and
Surgeons (CPSS) of
Saskatchewan](https://www.cps.sk.ca/imis/web/Applicants/Licensure/Requirements_Content/English_Language_Proficiency.aspx).

Applicants who graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States,
where English is the language of instruction **are not**  required to submit
proof of English language proficiency.

**Canadian applicants with medical education from the University of Montreal,
Sherbrooke, Laval, and the University of Ottawa (French stream)  are required
**to meet the English language proficiency requirements of the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan and must complete one of the language
exams listed above.

Applicants who are required to complete a language exam must submit a valid
test score in their CaRMS application **by the deadline for submission and
assignment of applications and documents.** Applicants who do not provide
acceptable proof of language proficiency, if required, will not be ranked.

Applicants must meet all of the criteria in one of the IELTS, OET or CELPIP
examinations. Please note that results from examinations cannot be combined,
unless the testing institution offers a sub-test.  
NOTE: Only OET offers sub-tests. CPSS will accept sub-tests obtained within
the same 24-month period as the original OET exam was sat.

Please direct any questions about language requirements to
[della.toews@usask.ca](mailto:della.toews@usask.ca). Applicants should not
contact CPSS directly about their eligibility for licensure.

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Applicant support form  Number requested: 3

Narrative letters of reference are no longer accepted for this program. Your
referee must complete the required structured reference form found here:
[Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Structured Reference
Letter](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/physical-medicine-and-rehab-structured-
reference-letter.pdf)

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  600

Maximum :  750

  

A personal letter (approx. 600-750 words) is required that describes why you
wish to enter Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation. Expressed interest and
future plans should be outlined. Candidates should demonstrate their knowledge
of the specialty and indicate the various strengths that they believe make
them an ideal candidate for PM&R in general and the program at the University
of Saskatchewan in particular.

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: You will be offered an interview on one of
two days. We will attempt to accomodate date preferences, but may not be able
to accommodate all requests. Interview times will be granted on a first come-
first served basis.  
  
We will employ a harmonized interview process for both Regina and Saskatoon
positions. You will complete one interview regardless of whether you apply to
one or both training sites. However, ranking will be completed for each
training site individually.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All interviews will be virtual for
the 2025 CaRMS R-1 Match. Both video and audio connection are expected;
therefore, please ensure you have the appropriate equipment available in a
quiet space with a reliable internet connection.  
  
We use a multiple mini interview (MMI) format. Candidates interact with
faculty, residents and residency program administrative support staff in a
format designed to explore the candidate's CanMEDS competencies, especially
intrinsic roles of communicator and collaborator. As well, we informally
explore how each candidate's needs and interests match those of the program.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Personal letter

Academic standing and performance

References specific to an elective or electives in physiatry

Multiple Mini Interviews

## Program goals

The goal of our residency training program is to train physiatrists who are
able to provide excellent patient care, education, and scholarly work in the
field of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation. They will be able to provide
holistic interdisciplinary assessment and leadership in rehabilitation
services. We provide flexibility in training to maximize patient exposure and
experience in different working environments.

## Selection process goals

We value applicants who have demonstrated excellent clinical skills, who have
shown an interest in the field of physical medicine and rehabilitation, who
have had exposure to research, and who demonstrate attributes throughout the
CanMEDS 2015 roles. They will demonstrate enthusiasm and ability to learn, and
adaptability to the varying demands of physical medicine and rehabilitation
training and practice.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team is composed of the program
directors, two administrative/chief residents, two to five currently active
physiatrists in the department, our research coordinator, and our program
administrative assistant.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Content including research activities, education credentials, previous work, volunteer experience   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Evidence of exposure to physical medicine and rehabilitation   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  All applicants must complete a Casper exam to be eligible for consideration   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteer, coaching, or mentorship activities; other work experience   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Holding roles or positions in student/medical/community leadership activities   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Areas of strength or concern   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Knowledge and exposure to physiatry; personal and professional experiences leading to this choice   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Interactions with peers, colleagues, teams   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Involvement in prior research activities   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Successful completion of/progress in training   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Examples of collaboration from your previous experiences   
Collegiality |  Examples of collegiality from your previous experiences   
Communication skills |  Examples of communication skills from your previous experiences   
Health advocacy |  Examples of health advocacy from your previous experiences   
Interest in the discipline |  Why do you want to be a physiatrist?   
Interest in the program |  What do you know about our program?   
Leadership skills |  Examples of leadership skills from your previous experiences   
Professionalism |  Examples of professionalism from your previous experiences   
Scholarly activities |  Examples of previous scholarly activity or understanding of importance of and contribution to scholarly work in PM&R.;  
Other interview component(s) |  Examples of your ability to receive constructive feedback and use of the opportunity for furthering personal and professional growth.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The University of Saskatchewan Department of Physical Medicine &
Rehabilitation is a provincial program that provides a unique and flexible
opportunity to take advantage of the best training opportunities across two
main campuses, located in the cities of Saskatoon and Regina, as well as
opportunities to experience one or more of the regional centres throughout the
province. We currently have residents in various stages of training who have
their primary base in either Regina or Saskatoon. For 2025, we will have one
position based primarily at each of the two training sites of Saskatoon and
Regina. Residents training at both sites will still be expected to complete
part of their training at the other campus to take advantage of the strengths
at both locations and the diversity of faculty and patients across our
province.

We have integrated support for research with access to research scientists in
both cities. We have strong working relationships with neurosciences,
rheumatology and orthopedics. Both centres have established services in the
core rehabilitation areas of stroke, spinal cord injury, brain injury and
amputation medicine.  

Our two tertiary rehabilitation centres in Saskatoon and Regina serve a
provincial population of over 1.2 million. Our program is distributed between
both cities, which offers the best of flexibility, personalized attention, and
practical experience. There is excellent support from the College of Medicine
to support this distributed model. We have a strong focus on neurological and
musculoskeletal anatomy reinforced by five half days per year in the College
of Medicine anatomy lab guided by an anatomist and physiatrist. This is
followed by hands-on ultrasound teaching and practice evaluating the anatomy
reviewed in the lab. We are continuing to build our expertise for integrating
ultrasound into spasticity management and musculoskeletal procedures. We also
have optional EMG teaching rounds in addition to our regular academic teaching
program.  

At the Regina campus, the program is primarily based out of Wascana
Rehabilitation Centre, a stand-alone rehabilitation facility which has all
core rehabilitation services at one site including inpatient and outpatient
rehabilitation services, electrodiagnostics, prosthetics and orthotics,
specialized seating, and services for pediatric rehabilitation. The campus in
Saskatoon is based out of Saskatoon City Hospital, where there are inpatient
and outpatient rehabilitation services. There is also the opportunity to work
with off-site pediatric subspecialists as well as teams managing cerebral
palsy, spina bifida and other neuromuscular diseases in addition to orthotics
and prosthetics. As there is currently no subspecialized pediatric physiatrist
in Saskatchewan, we have an affiliation agreement in place with the University
of Calgary where we require and support one block of pediatric rehabilitation.
There are also five community physiatrists in Saskatoon who see a mix of
musculoskeletal and electrodiagnostic medicine.  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Introduction**

  * One program with two sites creates opportunities to explore the strengths of rotations in both Saskatoon and Regina. For 2025, there will be one position based in Saskatoon and one in Regina; however, all residents will continue to rotate through both sites to maximize their exposure to faculty, patients, and training opportunities in both locations.

**Academic Programming**

  * We have a mandatory protected weekly Academic Half Day that our residents attend whether on rehabilitation service or off-service.
  * Our academic half day schedule of topics is on a two-year rotation with the intention that each resident will have encountered important topics at least twice throughout their training. 
  * We encourage an interactive approach with a resident assigned as the leader of the session and expectations that all residents will contribute. A faculty preceptor is attached to each session. We encourage junior residents to work closely with senior residents to explore topics. 
  * We connect Saskatoon and Regina with a videoconference link to facilitate interaction across the sites. Residents are expected to attend in person unless there are extenuating circumstances which have been communicated with the session preceptor previously.
  * We have approximately 5 interactive sessions per year in the anatomy lab facilitated by an anatomist and physiatrist dedicated to specific body regions. Coinciding with this are hands-on ultrasound sessions during which trainees practice scanning and use of ultrasound equipment which is led by 1-2 physiatrists with an interest in ultrasound. The sessions occur on the same day and focus on the same body region (eg: hand and wrist, shoulder, etc.)
  * We have initiated optional EMG rounds during which principles, technical factors, and topics of interest related to electrodiagnostics are discussed. These are resident led with attendance by a faculty member who practices EMG. 
  * We also have an annual Visiting Professor program   where an external speaker is invited to provide several educational sessions on topics relevant to physiatry. This has been a longstanding program and is highly regarded amongst both residents and faculty. 
  * We have monthly Department of PM&R Grand Rounds that occur from September until June over the noon hour. These rounds target the entire interdisciplinary rehabilitation team and are delivered virtually with attendees joining from across the province.
  * We have a practice OSCE and written exam 1-2 times per year which all residents participate in. Additionally, the University of Calgary in Alberta, Canada and the University of Saskatchewan host a combined practice exam in the fall of each year which residents in their 3rd-5th years of training are invited to attend.

**Transition to Discipline (TTD)**

  * These initial 3 blocks are designed to provide introduction and further experience to various areas of the specialty. Thus, the blocks are typically a mixture of inpatient and outpatient clinical encounters as well as acute care consult service. Residents will participate in team conferences and family meetings and will also have exposure to allied health professionals, including attending various therapy sessions. Residents complete time at both training sites to become familiar with the sites, faculty, and rehab teams. 
  * This stage also includes 2 weeks of research during which residents start to formulate thoughts regarding their scholarly project. Working with the research coordinator, they will connect with various faculty and researchers who may help them develop ideas for a project. They may start the initial steps of a project such as literature review and ethics requirements. They will develop a plan for the project timelines and distribution of future research time during their training. Residents also complete introductory modules to Quality Improvement through the Institute for Healthcare Improvement.
  * Residents participate in after-hours coverage of physiatry service in a “buddy call” system at Saskatoon City Hospital. This allows for pairing with a senior resident for peer mentorship, as well as serving as the orientation to physiatry-related urgent and emergent issues.

**Foundations**

  * This stage consists of 15 blocks of off-service rotations, including internal medicine and subspecialties, geriatrics, orthopedics, neurology, neurosurgery, rheumatology, and selectives.
  * Residents attend PM&R academic programming while on off-service rotations.
  * Residents participate in on call services for off-service rotations where applicable; they participate in physiatry on call services if no off-service call is required.
  * Residents also complete an online course entitled “The Role of the Practitioner in Indigenous Wellness” while in this stage.

**Core**

  * This stage consists of 32 blocks total, including stroke (4), brain injury (4), spinal cord injury (4), prosthetics and orthotics (4), neuromuscular (4), musculoskeletal (4), and elective (4). 
  * Training experiences include a mixture of inpatient, outpatient, community and outreach clinics.
  * Residents are expected to obtain additional exposure in relevant areas on certain rotations such as attending urodynamic studies on spinal cord injury rotation or wound clinic on prosthetics rotation for example.
  * Pediatric rehabilitation (4 blocks) also occurs during this stage. One block must be done in a tertiary children’s rehabilitation centre, and we have an affiliation agreement with the University of Calgary to facilitate this. However, our residents have also gone to other Canadian centres. There are children's rehabilitation experiences available in both Saskatoon and Regina. 

**Transition to Practice (TTP)**

  * This stage consists of 12 blocks. Half (6) of these blocks will be dedicated to "Senior Rotations" where the resident will take on the role of a "junior attending" physician. Training experiences include a mixture of inpatient, outpatient, community and outreach clinics. Residents may identify an area of interest to focus on during these blocks, but at least 50% of their clinical time will be generalized in scope. The intent of this phase is to facilitate further knowledge consolidation and to allow the resident to practice with further progressive independence.
  * The remaining 6 blocks of this stage will consist of elective time. In addition to the mandatory out-of-province pediatric block, residents are permitted up to 6 blocks of out-of-province elective time throughout their training.
  * Residents are encouraged to engage in further professional development as leaders and in details of practice management such as hospital administration meetings, billing and remuneration details, advocacy and patient group work as determined by their goals and needs.
  * Residents continue to attend and contribute to academic programming in this stage, often contributing to the teaching and discussion at an expert level. 
  * Residents continue to provide rehabilitation on call services in this stage and may be paired with a TTD resident on buddy call to facilitate their orientation to the program and physiatry-related urgent and emergent issues.

**Research**

  * Three dedicated blocks of research time are allowed to be scheduled, dispersed throughout each resident's training as suits their project's timeline and requirements. This is in addition to the two weeks of research spent in TTD which is outlined below.
  * We encourage and support research throughout the entire department.
  * A Research Manual has been developed to guide residents through both their research projects, including preparation for meeting their certification requirements. 
  * We have a dedicated research coordinator at our Saskatoon City Hospital campus. In Regina, there is a dedicated Research Department through the Saskatchewan Health Authority with research scientists who are easily available for assistance and support.
  * We require demonstration of basic research skills enabling completion of a scholarly project consistent with EPA TTP SA3. Research projects can be in various areas, including clinical research, health system quality management, basic science, or medical education.
  * Progress on projects is to be presented annually by each resident to the department at a Research Half Day.
  * Residents also complete a Quality Improvement and Patient Safety course which is integrated into the Academic Half Day teaching schedule. This course runs every second year and allows residents to gain firsthand practical experience with these important topics while working on personal QI projects.

* * *

# Training Sites

In Saskatoon, our department is located on the 7th floor of Saskatoon City
Hospital (SCH), adjacent to the Kinsmen Park and across the river from Royal
University Hospital and the College of Medicine.

Strong academic ties exist with the other two main teaching hospitals in
Saskatoon: Royal University Hospital and St. Paul's Hospital. Many rotations
including orthopedic surgery, neurology, medicine and rheumatology are
completed at these facilities.

In Regina, PM&R is centred at Wascana Rehabilitation Centre (WRC) which is in
Wascana Park. WRC has inpatient and outpatient adult and pediatric
rehabilitation programs and includes all therapies as well as orthotics and
prosthetics under one roof. Healthcare in Regina is integrated and there are
close linkages between physiatrists and the physicians and therapists in the
acute care hospitals, Regina General and Pasqua.

PM&R outreach clinics may be available in outlying areas for residents to
attend, depending on availability.

There is an official academic affiliation with the Division of Physical
Medicine and Rehabilitation at the Foothills Hospital in Calgary for Pediatric
Rehabilitation. The Kinsmen Children's Centre in Saskatoon provides exposure
to a broad range of pediatric conditions in a multidisciplinary setting. In
Regina, pediatric rehabilitation services including clinics for cerebral
palsy, spina bifida, prosthetics and orthotics, and developmental pediatrics
are integrated into one facility at Wascana.

Residents have access to secure WiFi in all hospitals in both cities.
Saskatchewan has a provincial health record which has imaging, drug
information and laboratory information available electronically, with work
continuing to progress in electronic clinical documentation. Our two main
training sites have merged our electronic medical record programs to have one
provincial physiatry EMR.

We have long used videoconferencing equipment for our Academic Half Day to
support interactive education sessions simultaneously at both campuses. During
COVID-19 restrictions, we provided pure virtual delivery, however, have since
resumed primarily in-person education methods at both sites. Our technology
has been recently upgraded to allow for even better integration between the
sites and virtual attendees as required. Our provincial Rehabilitation Grand
Rounds is now available by Zoom to facilitate improved attendance from
colleagues across the province.

**Distributive Learning at the University of Saskatchewan**

The College of Medicine, while physically located in Saskatoon, is a
provincial resource in attitude and in practice. Postgraduate medical
education at the University of Saskatchewan takes its role in supporting
quality health care to all people of the province seriously; all postgraduate
programs are expected to develop and incorporate rotations in communities
other than Saskatoon into their curriculum. The way each program does this is
not strictly prescribed by the College of Medicine, but is determined by the
Residency Program Committee, taking into consideration the needs of their
residents and the excellent opportunities available in other locations. These
rotations continue to evolve as we seek to build stronger and better programs.  

Extensive support is available for out-of-town rotations. The exact nature of
this support varies with location and program. The communities involved,
individual programs, the College of Medicine, and the Ministry of Health work
collaboratively to ensure residents are not financially disadvantaged by the
need to relocate.

For PM&R, the residency program recognizes that both Regina and Saskatoon
provide excellent educational opportunities for residents. Some rotations are
based in Saskatoon, some are based in Regina, and some rotations provide
clinical and educational experience in both centres. Residents have the option
of attending outreach clinics when available. For 2025, we have one training
seat dedicated to each geographic training site. Residents will complete
rotations at both training sites as recommended by the Residency Program
Committee, regardless of their geographic home base.

Extensive support is available for rotations completed at other sites in the
province. The exact nature of this support varies with location and program.
The communities involved, individual programs, the College of Medicine, and
the Ministry of Health work collaboratively to ensure residents are not
financially disadvantaged by the need to relocate. Temporary housing is
available at no expense to residents who leave their home site to complete
short term mandatory rotations at distributed sites in Saskatchewan. Please
review the [PGME Housing Guidelines](https://medicine.usask.ca/policies/pgme-
housing-guidelines-pgme-housing-application-for-short-term-mandatory-
rotation.php#relatedForms) for more detailed information.

Our residents and faculty enjoy engaging in social activities as well! We hold
several events per year, including a Welcome BBQ, Holiday lunch, working
lunches at anatomy/ultrasound days, Visiting Professor, and various other
group activities such as after practice exams or wellness events to take
advantage of times we are all together.

* * *

# FAQ

**Q:**   Can I contact a resident in the program to ask some questions?

**A:**    Yes, please email our chief residents - [Brendan Lim](mailto:
brendan.lim@usask.ca) or [Anthony Ojukwu](mailto: anthony.ojukwu@usask.ca) \-
if you have any questions.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26879?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26879