#  McGill University - Psychiatry - Montreal  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Regular Stream for All  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 10

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Nancy Low  
Dr. Paulina Bajsarowicz  

Address Psychiatry  
Ludmer, Research & Training Building, Rm 105  
1033 Pine Avenue West  
Montréal, Quebec, H3A 1A1  

Work  (514) 398-4909

Work  (514) 398-7294

Websites of Interest [ McGill Post Graduate Medical Education
](http://www.mcgill.ca/psychiatry/education/residency-program)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Matthew Gery

Title: Senior Administrative & Student Affairs Coordinator

Email: residency.psychiatry@mcgill.ca

Phone: (514) 398-7294

  

Name: Yeana Chowdhury

Title: Administrative & Student Affairs Coordinator

Email: residency.psychiatry@mcgill.ca

Phone: (514) 398-7294

  

Name: Aniket Sen

Title: Administrative & Student Affairs Coordinator

Email: residency.psychiatry@mcgill.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

### Accreditation Status

The Postgraduate Education Program in Psychiatry at McGill last underwent an
accreditation by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada in
March 2019. The accreditation report was exceptionally positive; 10 exemplary
indicators were identified and 1 coveted Leading Practices and/or Innovations
(LPI) was bestowed to our Heinz Lehman mentorship initiative and the official
status of the program is "accredited program with regular review in 2027".

### Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada: Applying competency-
based practices to residency education

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/competence-design-e), aims to enhance
patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving
patient needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education
process.

Competency-based medical education (CBME) is an outcomes-based approach to the
design, implementation, assessment, and evaluation of a medical education
program. It uses an organizing framework of competencies (i.e., what
professional activities psychiatrists are competent and trusted to do).

This new curriculum is focused nearly exclusively on the direct observation of
residents by supervisors. The assessments are for learning, as opposed to
assessment of learning. Each observation is “low-stakes” and entered in the
resident’s electronic portfolio.

  * Residents entering postgraduate residency training in psychiatry in 2020 and onwards will be within the CBME framework.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and
traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification. Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs
will include the completion of a Royal College examination; however, residents
in CBD programs will also be assessed against program milestones throughout
their training. Within a CBD program, all milestones (documented within an
electronic portfolio) and the Royal College examination must be successfully
completed to achieve certification.

###  



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

Applications are first reviewed by members of the Selection Committee to
determine which applicants will be offered an interview. Candidates will be
notified beforehand and assigned one of three possible interview dates. A
detailed schedule of the interview day including virtual links, instructions,
and additional contact information will be provided once interviews are
confirmed.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP must be submitted with each application.  
EITHER:

  * A copy of Canadian Birth Certificate or a copy of Certificate of Canadian Citizenship

OR

  * A copy of Permanent Resident Card (copy of both sides of the card) OR a copy of an IMM 5292, IMM 1000, IMM 5688;   
NB: the Permanent Resident card can be expired.

OR

  * A copy of Citizenship Card (copy of both sides of the card)

P.S: the passport is not an acceptable proof of citizenship.

Each year, all candidates applying in a CaRMS match must provide proof of
valid current citizenship or permanent resident status. As of the 2021 R-1
match cycle, CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate
the citizenship/legal status verification, which is usually completed by
Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) offices.

if an applicant has had their citizenship/legal status documentation verified
by any of the following organizations for the current R-1 match, the applicant
will not be required to assign a proof of citizenship/PR document (as pictured
in the screenshot below).

  * Medical Council of Canada ([MCC](https://mcc.ca/))
  * British Columbia's Clinical Assessment Program ([BC-CAP](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/clinical-assessment/))
  * Bureau de cooperation interuniversitaire ([BCI](https://www.bci-qc.ca/en/))
  * Alberta International Medical Graduate Program ([AIMG](https://www.aimg.ca/))

For further information, please check the following link on CaRMS:
[https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-
citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-)

Examinations

Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the MCCQE Part I exam, please include the statement of
results and supplemental information report in your application.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the NAC exam, please include the statement of results and
supplemental information report in your application. The MCCQE Part II or
Certificate of Registration of the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada
(LMCC) is accepted in place of the NAC Examination.

Reference documents

Required

Applicant support form  Number requested: 3

Traditional letters of reference are no longer accepted for this program. Your
referee must complete the required structured reference form. Please include
this link in your reference request:
<https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/2025-Psychiatry-Structured-Reference-Letter-EN.pdf>

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Required - used for memory aid

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  300

Maximum :  700

  

Please include a personal statement (300-700 words), including:

1. An autobiographical statement,

2\. Your reasons for choosing psychiatry,

3\. Why you would like to train at McGill specifically,

4. Pertinent doubts regarding your career path.

Custom Résumé / CV

Please include your CV in your application.

**Minimal Requirement**

Date of last service should be no longer than 4 years from the time of your
application.

Additional required IMG documents

Lettre de reconnaissance de l'équivalence du diplôme MD

Please provide the results of the exams that permitted you to have your
medical degree recognized and approved by the CMQ.

Graduates with the diploma of doctor of osteopathy awarded by a school of
osteopathic medicine situated in the United States providing that the school
is accredited by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the
American Osteopathic Association do not have to obtain the recognition of the
equivalence of the medical diploma by the CMQ. These graduates do not require
the MCCQE Part I, the National Assessment Collaboration (NAC), or the
Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada (LMCC) in order to apply.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Because our review of applications begins immediately after the file review
has opened, additional application documents will not be reviewed if submitted
after that date. However, you are welcome to update your file with your
interviewers in person on the day of the interview by bringing any relevant
new information such as conference abstracts, publications, or other documents
at that time.  

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 22, 2025
  * January 30, 2025
  * February 3, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: In the second half of the month of
December, notifications will be sent to applicants inviting them to virtual
interviews taking place in late January/early February. Applicants will be
assigned one of three possible interview days and will be waitlisted if the
assigned date is not suitable for them. Specific details of the interview day
will be provided once the interviews have been confirmed. Interviews will be
held on January 22, January 30, and February 3, 2025.  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The virtual interview day consists of
the following activities:  
  

  * Two 30-minute interviews with members of the Selection Committee, which is made up of faculty and residents of the McGill Psychiatry Residency Program. One of the interviews will be in English and the other will be in French. 
  * A 15-minute individual meeting with the Program Directors.  

  * A group information session with the Program Directors.  

  * A meeting with current residents of our program 

  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The McGill Psychiatry Residency Program provides a rich educational
environment with a wide range of training opportunities. Every year we admit a
diverse group of residents representing a broad range of interests, which
leads to a stimulating and collegial atmosphere for learning. Valued personal
qualities include a genuine interest in psychiatry, integrity, initiative,
collaboration, enthusiasm and creativity. Academic profiles range from
research and scholarly track record, leadership abilities, interest in medical
education, community and humanitarian activities, and international
experience.

In addition to the language requirements, clinical contact is also an
important criterion. The date of last service should be less than 4 years. In
other words, candidates whose last clinical experience dates back more than 4
years will not be considered.

## Program goals

On completion of training, residents in psychiatry will have demonstrated the
ability to assume the role of consultant in the specialty. This will require
them to:

  * Demonstrate effective mastery of the theoretical knowledge of the specialty, including the relevant aspects of basic medical and social sciences and of the law as it relates to the practice of psychiatry.
  * Demonstrate effective skill in the use of an integrated biological, psychological and social model in the diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation and prevention of mental disorders in individuals of all ages.
  * Demonstrate effective communication ability with patients, families, medical colleagues and other health care professionals.
  * Demonstrate the capacity to maintain complete and accurate health records.
  * Demonstrate attitudes which reflect an ability to work effectively and ethically on an independent basis and/or as a member of a multidisciplinary team, and which are founded on respect for and sensitivity to the patient, his/her family and the community.
  * Demonstrate an ability to work effectively and efficiently in a health care organization and to use information technology to optimize patient care, long-term learning and other activities.
  * Demonstrate an ability to identify the important determinants of health in relation to mental health problems.
  * Demonstrate the capacity to contribute effectively to improved health of patients and communities and recognize and respond to those issues where advocacy is appropriate.
  * Demonstrate an ability to critically assess the relevance and significance of the literature and research as it applies to the practice and study of psychiatry.

## Selection process goals

Identify applicants who have demonstrated interest in Psychiatry.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability to interact with patients
and colleagues alike.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated attributes in the CanMEDS roles.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability and enthusiasm to learn and
are able to adapt to the demands of residency psychiatry training in the era
of CBME.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team is composed of the Program
Directors, senior residents and selected faculty members.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 201 - 400  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Mandatory: we evaluate content including academic and extra-curricular enterprise   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Electives in Psychiatry   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Medical school examinations are evaluated   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering (medical and non-medical) and mentoring   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Holding any leadership role (medical or non-medical)   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstrate strong communication and interpersonal skills   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in Psychiatry and the McGill residency training program   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Strong work ethic, curiosity and positive interaction with colleagues and patients   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Past achievements and interest in participating in future research   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Due to exceptional circumstances during the COVID-19
pandemic, elective rotations in psychiatry is encouraged but not mandatory for
a candidate to be considered.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Capacity for teamwork   
Collegiality |  Behaviour, attitude and ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Verbal and written facility in English and French   
Health advocacy |  Health advocacy for individual patients and/or communities   
Interest in the discipline |  Understanding of Psychiatry, psychological mindedness   
Interest in the program |  Suitability for Psychiatry at McGill   
Leadership skills |  Leadership skills   
Professionalism |  Integrity, maturity   
Scholarly activities |  Capacity for academic work   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Department of Psychiatry of McGill University has long been at the cutting
edge of development in neuroscience, diagnostic methods, and therapeutic
interventions. The postgraduate program of the McGill Department of Psychiatry
provides the highest quality of comprehensive training as well as unique
opportunities to enhance your professional development. The program is
flexible and geared to help trainees achieve their goals. Faculty members and
learners are actively involved in planning, overseeing, and evaluating the
teaching program.

Some of the highlights of our program include:

\- excellent quality of core rotations and didactic curriculum  
\- highly developed psychotherapy training  
\- broad variety of elective and fellowship opportunities  
\- comprehensive mentoring and career planning  
\- extensive safety training including the use of the simulation center and an
intensive 2-day course  
\- structured health advocacy activities  
\- cultural psychiatry, Aboriginal mental health (Northern Quebec) training
opportunities  
\- Scholarly Project Track, Research Track, Master of Psychiatry Program,
Clinician Investigator Program  
\- high level of resident participation in developing and evaluating all
aspects of the program  
\- collegial, supportive, and positive learning environment  
\- excellent education-service balance  
\- on-call schedule that promotes wellness and educational experiences

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

## **Overview**

The Postgraduate Education Program at McGill University has a strong
commitment to continuous quality improvement with the goal of providing the
highest quality of training. Residents are highly engaged in all committees
where training is being developed, implemented, and reviewed. Clinical
rotations and academic curricula are reviewed annually based on standardized
evaluations by residents attending the specific learning activities,
comprehensive and detailed reports generated by residents at a retreat
reserved for this purpose, and ongoing committee meetings and discussions.

## **Clinical Rotations**

The program is university based and five years in length. Each year includes
thirteen four-week periods.  

**The R1-R2 years include the Transition to Disciple and Foundations of
Discipline stages of CBME.**  

  * These two years include core medical rotations, including family medicine, emergency medicine, neurology, endocrinology, internal medicine and emergency psychiatry. 

  * These two years also include adult inpatient and outpatient Psychiatry. 

**The R3-R5 years include the Core of Discipline and Transition to Practice
stages of CBME.**  

  * The R3-R4 years include rotations in child and adolescent psychiatry, geriatric psychiatry, severe and persistent mental illness (SPMI) and consultation-liaison (CL). Clinical and didactic training in addictions, shared-care, forensics psychiatry, rural/community psychiatry is also included. The residents will have opportunities to complete 2 elective rotations during this stage.   
  * The Transition to Practice Stage offers residents a comprehensive clinical training curriculum, preparing them for independent practice. 



## **Teaching Program**

There is a centralized teaching program, based at the university, which offers
the core content of psychiatry in seminar form on Tuesday mornings. The
primary goal of the centralized teaching program is knowledge acquisition. In
the R4 year there is a structured exam preparation course that simulates the
format of the Royal College written and oral exams.

The primary goal of the hospital-based teaching programs is skills
acquisition. Most of the hospitals in the McGill network offer hospital-based
psychotherapy seminars, psychopharmacology seminars, diagnostic interviewing
courses, journal clubs, grand rounds, and service-based rounds.





  |  **Centralized Teaching Program. Teaching Modules include:**   |     
---|---|---  
  |  Introduction to Psychiatry  |     
  |  Major Psychiatric Disorders  |     
  |  Evidence Based Psychiatry  |     
  |  Research Methods  |     
  |  Introduction to Psychotherapy  |     
  |  Psychodynamic Psychotherapy  |     
  |  Evidence Based Psychiatry  |     
  |  Psychopharmacology  |     
  |  Introduction to Child Psychiatry  |     
  |  Family Skills Training  |     
  |  Cognitive Behavioural Therapy   |     
  |  Geriatric Psychiatry  |     
  |  Neuroscience and Neurobiology  |     
  |  Other Psychotherapies  |     
  |  Collaborative Mental Health Care  |     
  |  Advanced Psychiatric Interviewing  |     
  |  Guideline Review  |     
  |  Family Skills Training  |     
  |  CP1 Child Psychiatry Seminar   |     
  |  Psychiatry and Medicine  |     
  |  Law, Ethics and Administration  |     
  |  Gender, Social, and Cultural Aspects of Psychiatry  |     
  |  Leadership and Manager Roles  |     
  |  Consolidation of Knowledge and Skills (Exam Preparation Course)  |     
  |  Independent Study  |     
  
## **Exam Preparation**

McGill Psychiatry residents are well prepared for all aspects of the Royal
College exam including the written and oral exam sessions and the STACER
(diagnostic interview).

Our centralized teaching program is designed to comprehensively cover all of
the Royal College’s training objectives. Self-assessment is done at the end of
each teaching module. During the Royal College exam year, the curriculum
includes a well-developed exam preparation course involving reviews of topics
using PDM, multiple choice, and short answer format. There is also time given
for independent study and exam preparation.

Diagnostic interviewing skills are taught through lectures and video at both
junior and senior levels. Practice STACERs or diagnostic interview
examinations are integrated into every core rotation, as well as twice yearly
on STACER days. We offer many opportunities to meet the STACER requirement
before the Royal College examinations. The format implemented at McGill allows
for continuous development of interviewing skills over the course of residency
and a less stressful exam format with STACERs integrated into clinical
rotations rather than on formal exam days.  

## **Psychotherapy Training**

The McGill Department of Psychiatry has a long tradition of excellence in
psychotherapy. A variety of psychotherapies are taught in didactic lectures,
clinical seminars and one-on-one supervision. Residents can expect to become
proficient in short and long-term psychodynamic psychotherapy, cognitive-
behavioural therapy, as well as couple, family or group therapy. Elective
psychotherapy training experiences include dialectic behavioural therapy,
trauma-focused therapies, crisis intervention, mentalization-based therapy,
supportive psychotherapy and therapy approaches developed for specific
populations such as substance dependence, eating disorders, sexual identity
issues. A particular strength of the McGill program is the availability of
excellent psychotherapy supervisors and training opportunities.  

## **Research and Scholarly Activities**  

The training experience at McGill is imbedded within a rich academic and
scholarly environment. Many opportunities exist to develop research and
scholarly abilities during the training program.  

**Basic research and scholarly training**  

\- teaching module in research methods  
\- supervised academic presentations throughout residency  

**Optional research and scholarly training**  

\- intensive courses are available in biostatistics, epidemiology, and other
research topics  
\- half-time and full-time research electives (R4-R5)

**Scholarly project track**  

\- A program-based initiative geared to provide structure and support to
enable residents to fulfill the new Royal College requirements regarding
scholarly endeavours.  

**Research track**  

\- begins in the first year of training  
\- protected time to do research during clinical rotations  
\- research mentor  
\- research seminars in the first year of training  
\- a 2-month research elective in the first year  
\- peer and faculty review of research proposals  
\- resident research day

**Recognition and funding**  



Several monetary prizes are awarded annually for excellence in scholarly
endeavours. These include the Chairman's Prize (for the overall best research
or clinical paper written by a resident), the Innovative Publication Prize
(for the best published research or clinical paper), the Gabrielle Weiss Prize
(for the best paper relevant to child psychiatry), the Geriatric Psychiatry
Prize (for the best paper relevant to geriatric psychiatry), and the Serge
Bikadoroff Prize (for the best paper relevant to consultation-liaison
psychiatry).

## **Career Planning**

Residents are encouraged to take an active approach to career planning. To
facilitate that, our program has developed a structure that ensures the
development and exploration of career options through a number of components:

\- bi-annual one-on-one meetings with the program director (with additional
meetings on request)  
\- residents are encouraged to meet each year with at least one other person
designated to provide career planning (mentors, department chiefs,
supervisors, etc.)  
\- senior residents meet with the chair of the department on an individual
basis to discuss applications for fellowships and careers with the McGill
Department of Psychiatry  
\- there is an annual Career Day, which includes plenary speakers designed to
expose all residents to a wide range of career opportunities  
\- a network of career and fellowship advisors has been developed, providing
residents with contacts reflecting a vast array of training and employment
experiences they may consider at McGill, throughout Quebec, elsewhere in
Canada, and internationally.

## **Mentorship Program**

The transition from medical student to resident is a significant period in the
development of a physician. It is an important time for the acquisition of
knowledge and experience, but it also presents challenges in terms of adapting
to new responsibilities and increased work demands.  

Ensuring that this transition is supported and fostered in a nurturing way is
a priority for our program. During their PGY-1, our residents are
predominantly in medical rotations. Mentoring and anchoring them to our
program is of great importance in order that our residents gain a sense of
belonging to their specialty.  

Previously, PGY-1 residents were assigned a staff mentor based on assumed
compatibilities in terms of interests and personality. This mentorship model
was riddled with challenges including incompatibilities between the trainee
and mentor, lack of time to meet, and a lack of subject matter to discuss.  

It is for this reason that the Program Office has created a new mentorship
initiative entitled the Heinz Lehmann mentorship group. The HL mentor is a
gateway to resources within our program, department, university, and specialty
for incoming junior residents (PGY1-5).  

**Safety Training**  

The McGill Psychiatry Program considers safety of paramount importance and as
such offers a high level of education, ongoing monitoring and rapid response
to safety issues.

**Safety training occurs throughout residency and includes:**  

\- formal lectures in the teaching curriculum  
\- a simulation center activity to practice managing agitated patients  
\- a two-day intensive safety training program (the OMEGA course)  
\- an orientation to safety procedures at each site at the start of rotations

**Measures for monitoring and responding to safety issues include:**  

\- a safety policy for the residency program  
\- systematic reporting of safety issues at all clinical sites  
\- a safety committee that meets regularly to review safety data, conduct site
visits, and recommend interventions where necessary

**Medical Education Training**  

Within the residency program, there are many opportunities to become involved
in educational activities. Residents are invited to participate in
undergraduate medical education, including through formal roles as teaching
fellow at one of the training sites. Senior residents are invited to
participate in a range of activities for junior residents.

Medical education electives are available through the Department of Medical
Education at McGill University. These include:  

\- courses in the Department of Education or Department of Epidemiology and
Biostatistics  
\- activities sponsored by the Center for Medical Education and the Faculty
Development Office (e.g., center meetings, medical education rounds,
workshops, seminars)  
\- independent study of medical education concepts, principles, and practices  
\- a health sciences education research project

**Health Advocacy**  

Residents in our program have taken spontaneous interest in health advocacy
activities. As this has become a Royal College requirement, health advocacy
training has been incorporated into the program. Training includes an annual
health advocacy orientation session, participation in resident-initiated
health advocacy activities, and the use of reflective practice to explore
advocacy issues encountered during training.

Past health advocacy orientation sessions included presentations by residents
and faculty on the following:

\- resident initiated educational session at the community-based organization
AMI Quebec: Action for Mental Illness, Chez Doris, TRACOM  
\- governmental policy development on the detention of asylum seekers

**Cultural Psychiatry Training**  

The Department of Psychiatry at McGill University is a world leader in
cultural psychiatry. Clinical and research opportunities are available for
residents in both adult and child cultural psychiatry services.

Some of the activities of the Division of Social and Transcultural Psychiatry
include:

\- cultural consultation clinical service  
\- culture and mental health research  
\- annual summer program in social and cultural psychiatry  
\- advanced institute in cultural psychiatry  
\- a large variety of international projects  
\- leading research in a vast range of transcultural psychiatry topics

**Child and Adolescent Psychiatry**  

The Royal College Specialty Training in Child Psychiatry has been approved at
McGill.

**Geriatric Psychiatry**  

The Royal College Specialty Training in Geriatric Psychiatry has been approved
at McGill.

**Fellowships**  

A broad range of fellowships are available as additional training options
following the completion of the general psychiatry program. These are listed
on the McGill Postgraduate Medical Education site:
[http://www.mcgill.ca/pgme/programs/fellowship-
programs](http://www.mcgill.ca/pgme/programs/fellowship-programs)

**Master of Psychiatry Program**  

McGill psychiatry residents may pursue a Master's of Science degree in
Psychiatry during their five-year residency. This degree program provides
residents with more rigorous training as medical scientists, including course
work in research methods specific to their area of supervised research,
leading to the presentation of a Master's thesis and to scholarly
publications. This program allows for a flexible schedule that integrates with
the residency program.

For more information please refer to
<https://www.mcgill.ca/psychiatry/education/graduate-program>.  

**Clinician Investigator Program**  



The Clinician Investigator Program (CIP) is also available for McGill
psychiatry residents. The CIP's mandate is to assist in the career development
of clinician/investigators by providing a formalized postgraduate educational
program that fulfills the existing clinical specialty training requirements of
the Royal College, as well as a minimum of two years of structured rigorous
research training. Up to one of the research years may also be credited to
fulfill the individual's specialty requirements. It is preferred that the two
years of research be sequential (i.e., R5 plus a one-year fellowship).



For psychiatry residents, acceptance into this Program requires the joint
approval of the CIP and the Psychiatry Residency Program Committee. McGill's
CIP is completed concurrently with a Graduate School Pathway (Graduate
Diploma, MSc or PhD); a non-graduate school pathway is open only to those who
have already completed a MSc or PhD degree.

**Clinical Pharmacology Program**  

The residency program in clinical pharmacology is a two-year supervised
training program open to qualified residents who have completed four years or
more in psychiatry. The objective of this program is to provide clinical and
scholarly training in clinical pharmacology (psychopharmacology).

This program is accredited by the Royal College and leads to a fellowship
certificate in clinical pharmacology by the Royal College (certification
without examination) upon completion of the second year. This fellowship
program is based in the clinical psychopharmacology unit of the McGill
University Health Centre (MUHC) and is carried out in collaboration with a
number of university hospitals and centers, as well as the Department of
Pharmacy, the Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, and the Department
of Anaesthesia.

The mandatory content of the first year consists of six months in the clinical
psychopharmacology unit concentrating on psychopharmacological consultations,
followed by a three-month rotation in clinical neuropsychopharmacology and
neuropsychiatry, anaesthesia, or pediatrics-pharmacokinetics. This is then
followed by three months in geriatrics (neurological) and internal medicine,
focusing on clinical pharmacology in areas that are important to psychiatry
(dementia, Parkinson's disease, HTA).

The elective content of the second year is flexible and tailored to the
specific interests of the trainee. The following rotations are available:
clinical pharmacology research in psychiatry, clinical exploratory
pharmacology research in psychiatry, preclinical psychopharmacology research,
statistics and epidemiology, and pharmaceutical sciences. Other research
electives may be arranged.

Clinical pharmacology and psychopharmacology seminars, in addition to regular
teaching rounds, are provided.

**McGill Psychiatry Residents Association (MPRA)**  

The presence of the MPRA functions to enhance the wellness and representation
of residents in the McGill Psychiatry Program. The MPRA elects an executive
and representatives to Program committees.

The executive includes:

\- President  
\- COPE representative to the national organization of psychiatry programs  
\- Vice President (VP) Administration  
\- VP IMG  
\- VP Psychosocial  
\- VP Community  
\- VP Research  
\- VP Education  
\- VP Recruitment

Residents elect representatives to program committees including:

\- Residency Program Committee  
\- Class Representatives Committee  
\- Safety Committee  
\- Curriculum Committee  
\- Psychotherapy Committee  
\- Research Committee  
\- Child Psychiatry Committee  
\- Geriatric Psychiatry Committee  
\- Undergraduate Training Committee



**McGill Psychiatry Interest Group (McPIG)**  

The McGill Psychiatry Interest Group (McPIG) is an initiative launched by the
MPRA to promote interest in the field of psychiatry and, more specifically,
the McGill psychiatry training program. Residents arrange a variety of events
for medical students that range from movie nights to lectures, journal clubs
to informal dinners. McPIG is also responsible for coordinating recruitment
activities during the CaRMS period. All psychiatry residents are invited to
participate in this rewarding subcommittee of the MPRA.

* * *

# Training Sites

## Overview

The McGill Department of Psychiatry is fortunate to have a large number of
excellent clinicians, teachers, and researchers with diverse areas of
interest. Residents in our program rotate through a number of training sites
in order to be exposed to different models of care and subspecialties within
psychiatry. Our principal training sites are the McGill University Health
Centre, which consists of the Royal Victoria Hospital (RVH), Montreal General
Hospital (MGH), Montreal Children's Hospital (MCH), and the Montreal
Neurological Institute (MNI), as well as the Jewish General Hospital (JGH),
St. Mary's Hospital (SMH), Douglas Mental Health University Institute (DH),
and Centre Hospitalier Pierre Janet (CHPJ).

## General Adult Hospitals

\- McGill University Health Centre (MUHC) - Royal Victoria Hospital (RVH)

\- McGill University Health Centre (MUHC) - Montreal General Hospital (MGH)

\- Jewish General Hospital (JGH)

\- St. Mary's Hospital (SMH)

## General Pediatric Hospital

\- Montreal Children's Hospital (MCH)

## Psychiatric Institute

\- Douglas Mental Health University Institute (DH)

## Neurological Institute

\- Montreal Neurological Institute (MNI)

## Community/ Rural Training Sites (Psychiatry)

\- Centre Hospitalier Pierre Janet (CHPJ), Gatineau, Quebec

\- CSSS de Suroit, Valleyfield Quebec

\- CSSS de la Vallée de l'Or, Val d'Or, Quebec

All rural sites offer elective rotations in Rural Psychiatry. The CHPJ also
offers core rotations in child psychiatry, geriatric psychiatry, shared cate
and forensic psychiatry.

## Community/ Rural Training Sites (Family Medicine)

\- CLSC Côte-des-Neiges

\- CLSC Metro

\- CSSS des Collines (Wakefield)

\- Conseil Cri SSS de la Baie James (Chisasibi)

\- CSSS du Haut St-Laurent (Huntingdon, Ormstown)

\- CS Inuulitsivik (Puvirnituq)

\- CSSS de Papineau (Buckingham)

\- CSSS la Pommeraie (Cowansville, Knowlton)

\- CSSS du Pontiac (Shawville)

\- CSSS du Suroit (Valleyfield)

\- CSSS de Temiscaming et de Kipawa (Temiscaming)

\- CS Tullatavik de L'Ungava (Kuujjuaq)

\- CSSS de la Vallée-de-la-Gatineau (Maniwaki)

\- CSSS de la Vallée-de-l'Or (Val d'Or)

\- CSSS Vaudreuil-Soulanges (Rigaud)

* * *

# Additional Information

## Language Skills

An attraction of the McGill program is its location in a cosmopolitan French
milieu. The language of instruction for all educational sessions is English.
In the clinical setting, while most McGill-affiliated hospitals provide a
primarily English work environment, the patient population includes many
French-speaking patients. In addition, residents are expected to complete a
rural rotation which will often take place in a francophone milieu.

Since 2016, our program is no longer in a position to accept unilingual
Anglophone or Francophone candidates due to various significant factors
(Collège des Médecins du Québec requirement, patient safety, and patient
exposure). Incoming residents to our program will be expected to conduct a
simple assessment in both English and French. Residents are provided with
various sources of support both internal and external to learn French and
English as it pertains to a psychiatric evaluation. Residents will not be
allowed to choose patients based on language proficiency.

* * *

# FAQ

Please contact the Residency Program Office at
[residency.psychiatry@mcgill.ca](mailto:residency.psychiatry@mcgill.ca) for
any questions you may have. You may also contact one of our resident
representatives for further information:  



**MPRA EXECUTIVE (2024-2025)**

  
President Dr. Etienne Gauthier-Lafreniere  
VP Administration Dr. Juliette Thibaudeau  
VP Education Dr. Darya Naumova  
VP IMG Dr. Fernanda Pérez Gay Juarez
([fernanda.perezgay@mail.mcgill.ca](mailto:fernanda.perezgay@mail.mcgill.ca))  
VP Psychosocial Dr. Lara Pereira  
VP Community Dr. Marie Picard  
VP Recruitment Dr. Richard Fattouh
([richard.fattouh@mail.mcgill.ca](mailto:richard.fattouh@mail.mcgill.ca))  
VP Research Dr. Fernando Gonzales Aste  
COPE Representative Dr. Valérie Breton

Q & A / resident info sessions will be held. Dates coming soon. For more
information contact MPRA VP recruitment or MPRA IMG representative.

  
**CLASS REPRESENTATIVES (2024-2025)**

  
R1 Representative Dr. Charles Tessier  
R2 Representative Dr. Victoria Sebag  
R3 Representative Dr. Janie Morissette  
R4 Representative Dr. Kenzy Abdelhamid  
R5 Representative Dr. Lauren Kay





Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27084?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27084