#  Western University - Cardiac Surgery - London  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Lee Myers  

Address Cardiac Surgery  
London Health Sciences Centre  
339 Windermere Road  
London, Ontario, N6A 5A5  

Work  (519) 663-3181

Fax  (519) 663-3044

Websites of Interest [ Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry - Division of
Cardiac Surgery
](https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/surgery/divisions/cardiac_surgery.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Elizabeth McEachnie

Title: Program Assistant

Email: elizabeth.mceachnie@lhsc.on.ca

Phone: 519-663-3479

  

* * *

# Important Information

RESIDENCY TRAINING PROGRAM START DATE:  All programs at Western will commence
July 1, 2025 with a one-day orientation to be held in London (date to be
determined).

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided (by submitting one
of the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.
Failure to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.
No other forms of verification are acceptable.  

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of card must be provided and legible.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference, one of which may be obtained from a senior
resident, are required.



Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A brief personal letter is required in which candidates should outline their
reasons for wishing to pursue a career and training with the Division of
Cardiac Surgery at the University of Western Ontario. Please outline any
future academic and non-academic goals and interests which apply to your
career choice.

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 25, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Individual virtual formal interviews will
be scheduled on **Saturday, January 25, 2025.**  
  
An attempt has been made to coordinate interview dates with other Cardiac
Surgery programs in Canada.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Individual interviews will be held
virtually with members of the Residency Program Committee including the
Program Director, Division Consultant surgeons, the Chief resident, and
another resident representative. The committee will conduct a standardized
interview and complete a final ranking list based on academic performance,
curriculum vitae, interview performance, and reference letters. Other
applicable information will be considered.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

**SELECTION CRITERIA**

Selected candidates will have:

  1. A superior academic record
  2. Evidence of proven interest in the specialty. 
  3. Three letters of reference, as outlined in the "Reference Documents" section.

Due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, we do not require applicants to have
completed on-site electives.

## Program goals

The program aims to train the next generation of outstanding Cardiac Surgery
specialists to be highly competent in the complete range of the specialty,
with a strong emphasis on the acquisition of excellent surgical skills.
Graduates of the program will be experts in the diagnosis, prevention, and
treatment of cardiovascular disease and will provide patient care to the
highest standards. The program provides in-depth exposure to the full spectrum
of adult cardiac surgical disease, including ventricular assist devices and
transplantation. The program also instills an appreciation for primary
research, cultivates a lifelong desire for ongoing education and self-
improvement, and provides the mentorship to acquire the skills necessary to
succeed in this field.

## Selection process goals

Successful applicants for the program will possess the following
characteristics and qualities:

  * A high level of commitment to providing exceptional patient care.
  * A focus on continual self-improvement and ongoing educational enrichment.
  * Commitment to excellence in research and scholarship.
  * Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, with a sensitivity to the needs and perspectives of diverse patients and peers.
  * Interest in participating in a challenging program and facilitating program elements in senior residency years.
  * Resilience and a strong work ethic.

## File review process

Review team composition : Members of the Residency Program Committee including
the Program Director, Division Consultant surgeons, and the the Chief
resident.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Academic history and interests, extra-curricular activities, awards, and grants   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, we do not require applicants to have completed on-site electives   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Interests and accomplishments outside of medicine; a healthy work-life balance   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Experience leading teams or groups and demonstrated interpersonal communication skills   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Grades are in good standing, rotations have been passed, and there are no concerns related to professionalism   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Reflect a genuine interest in pursuing a career in cardiac surgery   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Strong, detailed, and reflecting a genuine understanding of the candidate’s performance   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Prior research experience is ideal; research related to cardiac surgery is preferred but not mandatory   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Undergraduate and Medical School   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, we do not require
applicants to have completed on-site electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Able to describe working effectively with others, especially in the context of health care   
Collegiality |  Appropriately professional and personable interactions with others   
Communication skills |  Straightforward and effective verbal and non-verbal communication   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrated understanding of the role of a surgical consultant in advancing the health and well-being of patients, communities, and the population as a whole   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated interest in and knowledge of the scope of cardiac surgery practice   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest in our program   
Leadership skills |  Experience in leading groups and having significant responsibilities   
Professionalism |  Indications of sound moral judgment, compassion, respect, and resilience   
Scholarly activities |  Previous participation in research; able to articulate potential future research interests   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Division of Cardiac Surgery at Western is comprised of seven faculty
members who perform an annual total of 1500 adult cardiac surgical procedures
at the University Hospital.

Our division is a national leader in all aspects of adult cardiac surgery
including minimally invasive mitral valve surgery, aortic surgery, and
transplantation. We have strong collaborative relationships with Cardiology,
Critical Care, Vascular and Thoracic Surgery.

The Division of Cardiac Surgery is active in collaborative research and
members are very productive academically via peer-reviewed research grants,
presentations at national and international meetings and publications. Members
of our division conduct pre-clinical research in CSTAR (Canadian Surgical
Technologies and Advanced Robotics) within the Lindros Legacy Pavilion at the
University Hospital.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 6 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

This residency program fulfills the program requirements of the Royal College
of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada needed to obtain certification in this
specialty.

**PGY-1 and PGY-2**

The first two core years of the program include exposure to a broad range of
clinical experience in cardiac, general, thoracic, and vascular surgery;
cardiology, including echocardiography and cath lab; and emergency medicine
and anesthesia. Rotations are also tailored to the needs of the individual
trainee and the requirements for the Principles of Surgery examination.  

**PGY-3**

The third year is an enrichment year where residents can pursue academic,
research, or clinical interests related to a specific area of cardiac surgery
of their choosing. Western's Department of Surgery has a Master's program in
which our residents are encouraged to enroll.

**PGY-4  **

The fourth year generally consists of at least 12 months of senior non-cardiac
surgery rotations including vascular and thoracic surgery.

**PGY-5  **

The fifth year consists of at least 6 months as a senior resident in adult
cardiac surgery and a rotation on pediatric cardiac surgery in either Montréal
or Edmonton.

**PGY-6**

The final year is undertaken as a Chief resident in adult cardiac surgery.

**Research**

There are no mandatory research requirements. However, facilities for both
clinical and laboratory research are available and trainees are strongly
encouraged to participate in the research program. Preparation of a Master’s
thesis would be the norm for a trainee who wishes to pursue an academic
career. Financial support through Divisional internal or external grants can
generally be obtained to fund such research. Both basic science projects and
clinically oriented research have formed the basis for resident research
activity.



**Seminars**

These comprise weekly cardiology, cardiac surgery, and cardiopulmonary
transplant rounds and monthly mortality and morbidity rounds. During core
years a didactic lecture series covering the topics of the POS examination is
given weekly. Trainees are free of clinical responsibilities for these
lectures and attendance is mandatory. Attendance at national and/or
international specialty meetings is encouraged and financial assistance is
provided.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

Adult Cardiac Surgery rotations are at University Hospital in London, Ontario.
1500 adult cardiac surgical cases are done annually by a faculty consisting of
seven Consultant surgeons.

Other rotations are at University Hospital and Victoria Hospital in London.
The junior cardiology/cardiac care unit and senior vascular surgery rotations
are completed in Windsor.

Paediatric Cardiac Surgery rotations are in Montreal, although an agreement is
also in place for this rotation to occur in Edmonton.

Electronic medical resources are available to the residents in a dedicated
Residents' Office.

Electives can be considered on a individualized basis.

* * *

# Additional Information

**About London**

London is a wonderful city of 422,000 located in Southwestern Ontario, midway
between Toronto and Windsor/Detroit, Michigan. Known as the Forest City due to
its abundant trees and parks, London offers many of the amenities of a larger
city without the associated aggravations. A sizable proportion of London's
population works at the University of Western Ontario or in one of the several
health care or research facilities associated with the school. London is also
home to Fanshawe College and several large corporations. There are excellent
restaurants, a lively music scene, theatres, an OHA hockey team, and many
community-oriented events, all of which enhance family life. For big-city
sports or entertainment, Toronto and Detroit are only 2 hours away by car or
train. The town of Stratford is a 45 minute drive from London and is host to
the Stratford Festival, North America's largest repertory theatre company. For
sports lovers, London has much to offer with sailing either on Fanshawe Lake
(in the city) or on Lake Huron, cross country skiing on groomed trails in
Fanshawe Park, mountain biking, hiking, cycling and rollerblading along the
Thames River (20k of connected paved paths), as well as the usual complement
of tennis, squash, athletic clubs, and many readily accessible golf courses.
There are a variety of summer festivals in the downtown and surrounding area.
University Hospital is located close to popular shopping centres, rental
housing, and grocery stores, all of which can be accessed via public transit.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26634?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26634