#  Western University - Vascular Surgery - London  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 03, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. John Landau  

Address Vascular Surgery  
London Health Sciences Centre  
800 Commissioners Rd East, Room E2-123  
London, Ontario, N6A 5W9  

Work  519-685-8044

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Western Vascular Surgery Homepage
](https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/vascularsurgery/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: Please contact Alicia should you have any questions about
the Vascular Surgery program

Name: Alicia Martinez

Title: Program Administrator

Email: alicia.martinez@lhsc.on.ca

  

Name: John Landau

Title: Program Director

Email: john.landau@lhsc.on.ca

Phone: 519-685-8044

  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

**Residency Training Program Start Date:** All programs at Western commence
July 1, 2025 with a one-day virtual Orientation (Date TBD).

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided (by submitting one
of the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.
Failure to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.
No other forms of verification are acceptable.  

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of card must be provided and legible.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. References must be from consultant
level physicians.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter is required in which candidates outline their reasons for
pursuing a career in Vascular Surgery and residency training at Western. It
would also be helpful to briefly discuss relevant community/volunteer work,
hobbies, and other interests.

Abstract/Publications

May be included on CV.

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 5, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held virtually (February
5, 2025).  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Selected candidates will be invited
for interviews that will take place virtually. In addition, we will be hosting
a virtual town hall in January 2025 for candidates selected for interviews
where candidates will be able to ask staff, faculty, and residents questions
prior to the interview.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Successful candidates will have an outstanding academic record and evidence of
proven interest in Vascular Surgery.  Selection is based on a compilation of
information from the interview, reference letters, and review of the
applicant's CaRMS application.

## Program goals

The overall mission is to train competent vascular surgeons for a variety of
settings whether it be academic, community, military, or international
settings as examples. We strive to always put the patients first and provide
the utmost care to the many vascular patients of Southwestern Ontario. We are
a small program with a busy practice, and we feel that we can provide the
tools needed by the next generation of vascular surgeons training at Western.
We provide comprehensive training in both open and endovascular surgical
techniques, and our graduates are prepared to practice in either academic or
community settings upon completion of their training.

## Selection process goals

Successful candidates will have an outstanding academic record and evidence of
proven interest in Vascular Surgery.  Selection is based on a compilation of
information from the interview, reference letters, and review of the
applicant's CaRMS application. We are looking for residents that are willing
to learn, will work hard, and always put the patients first. We are also
looking for residents that will be academically productive and fit in well
with our current cohort of residents.

## File review process

Review team composition : All staff and residents are involved in the
selection process

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Yes this is considered important   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Due to the pandemic and the restriction placed on electives, we do not use elective choice as a screening measure for an interview. A demonstrated interest in Vascular Surgery is preferred.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Yes this is considered important   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Yes this is considered important   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Yes this is considered important   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Yes this is considered important   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Yes this is considered important   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Yes this is considered important   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Yes this is considered important   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Due to the previous restrictions placed on electives
leading up to this year, we do not use elective choice as a screening measure
for an interview. A demonstrated interest in Vascular Surgery is preferred.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Interview questions will assess understanding of the importance of collaboration in Vascular Surgery.   
Collegiality |  Potential to be a team player.   
Communication skills |  Evaluated throughout the interview by observing the candidate answering questions (verbal and non-verbal).   
Health advocacy |  Understanding of the current state of health care and the challenges faced by all stakeholders.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated awareness of skills and abilities required.   
Interest in the program |  Familiar with Western's Vascular Surgery program.   
Leadership skills |  Provides examples of leadership roles.   
Professionalism |  Exhibits/displays professional attire and attitude during the interview.   
Scholarly activities |  Demonstrated interest shown for academic/scholarly pursuits.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The direct entry five year residency training program in Vascular Surgery at
Western University accepted its first residents in 2012.  The Division of
Vascular Surgery is dedicated to this new paradigm of training and look
forward to meeting this year's applicants.

The program at Western University provides exceptional clinical and academic
opportunities for residents to develop and prepare for satisfying and
successful careers in academic or community vascular surgery.  

Our hybrid operating suite and fusion imaging technology has enhanced our
current endovascular capabilities. We remain dedicated to both open surgery
and endovascular training, and continue to develop our approach to cutting
edge aortic and peripheral endovascular techniques. We believe that our strong
commitment to resident education, extremely high clinical volumes, and
unlimited research opportunities make Western University an outstanding
program to consider for residency training.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Vascular Surgery residency training program at Western University is five
years in duration, and we have adopted the competency-based medical education
curriculum in Vascular Surgery after its launch in July of 2021.  The first
two years of the program are considered to be "core surgery" and provide
residents preliminary exposure to vascular surgery and relevant medical and
surgical specialties.  Intermediate and senior level rotations during the
final three years of training prepare the residents for their RCPSC
examinations and careers in vascular/endovascular surgery.

**PGY1  & PGY2**  
  
Rotations during the two "core surgery" years include vascular surgery,
general surgery, thoracic surgery, cardiac surgery, cardiology, trauma,
emergency medicine, intensive care, and interventional vascular radiology.
Elective and research blocks are also available during this time.

The highly acclaimed "Surgical Foundations" course is mandatory for PGY-1
residents and occurs on Wednesdays in PGY-1.  This course includes lectures,
ATLS, and animal "wet labs" to introduce various surgical techniques.

**PGY3**  
  
The intermediate third year is designed to facilitate the transition to senior
residency.  The majority of the year is focused on vascular surgery with
options for additional rotations in the vascular laboratory, electives, or
research.

**PGY4 & PGY5**

The final two years of training include senior level rotations in vascular
surgery, interventional vascular radiology, and an elective or research block.
This time will be spent preparing residents for the RCPSC examinations and the
transition to independent practice.

**  Research**

Research is an exciting and mandatory component of our residency training
program and is facilitated by our research assistant.  Numerous opportunities
for investigation exist and can be tailored to the interests of each
individual resident.

Each resident will complete and present one project per year and present their
results at the annual research day.  Financial support is available to
encourage residents to submit abstracts to national and international
meetings.  Individual projects will be supervised by faculty members to ensure
successful completion and appropriate dissemination of the results (i.e.
presentation and publication).

**Seminars  
**  
The Division of Vascular Surgery has a strong and well established commitment
to resident education.

All residents will be excused from clinical duties to attend the weekly
Vascular Surgery academic half day.  This includes Vascular
Surgery/Interventional Radiology case-based rounds and teaching seminars
facilitated by a consultant vascular surgeon.

Morbidity & Mortality rounds, Journal Club, and various other educational
sessions are interspersed on a monthly basis.

In addition, case-based sessions on "Endovascular Decision Making and
Techniques" complements the hands-on learning that occurs in the operating
room/angiography suite.

The highly acclaimed "Surgical Foundations" course is mandatory for PGY-1
residents and occurs on Wednesdays.  This course consists of lectures, ATLS,
and numerous animal "wet labs" where the residents learn various surgical
techniques.



* * *

# Training Sites

Western University is an internationally recognized Vascular Surgery training
program with a strong academic and clinical focus in a large volume tertiary
care centre.  The clinical teaching unit is conveniently situated at one
hospital. Graduates of our program are currently working in academic and non-
academic centres throughout Canada and the United States.

The relatively small number of Faculty allows for close supervision of all
residents.  The excellent relationship with our Interventional Radiology
colleagues continues to benefit resident education.

Our program performs a large volume of endovascular aortic cases including
thoracic, abdominal, and advanced thoracoabdominal procedures.

We perform a large volume of peripheral interventions providing ample
opportunity for resident education by both interventional radiologists and
vascular surgeons.

Our state-of-the-art hybrid operating theatre is now in operation and is our
main operating suite.



* * *

# Additional Information

The strengths of our program include the small and dedicated group of Faculty
and the large clinical volume encompassing all aspects of Vascular and
Endovascular Surgery.  Our trainees are extremely well trained and immediately
capable of practicing modern day vascular surgery in an academic or community
setting upon graduation.

The Program has a strong academic focus with a robust formal teaching program
and an internationally renowned research track record.

Graduates of our program are held in high regard internationally and upon
graduation are consistently approached and recruited for various academic and
community positions.

* * *

# FAQ

Please contact the program director Dr. John Landau with any further questions
(john.landau@lhsc.on.ca).

We would be pleased to provide additional information that may be helpful when
considering the Vascular Surgery training program at Western University.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27454?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27454