#  McGill University - Neurology - Pediatric - Montreal  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Regular Stream for All  

##  Last approved on September 09, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Bradley Osterman  

Address Pediatric Neurology  
Montreal Children's Hospital  
1001 Boul. Decarie  
Montreal, Quebec, H4A 3J1  

Work  514-398-4909

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Department of Neurology/Neurosurgery
](http://neurology.mcgill.ca/)  
[ McGill Post Graduate Medical Education.
](http://www.med.mcgill.ca/postgrad/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Aniket Sen

Title: Coordinator, Pediatric Neurology Program

Email: residency.pedsneurology@mcgill.ca

Phone: 514-398-4904

  

* * *

# Important Information

Child Neurology programs across Canada transitioned to CBD in July 2020. See
below for further information.

Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada: Applying competency-based
practices to residency education

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/competence-design-e), aims to enhance
patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving
patient needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education
process.

CBD uses [time as a
framework](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e)
rather than the basis for progression. It is not anticipated that the duration
of training will change for the majority of trainees. Residency programs are
broken down into [stages](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/documents/cbd/cbd-
competence-continuum-diagram-legal-e.pdf), and each stage has a series of
milestones based on required competencies. These milestones create more
targeted learning outcomes and involve more frequent, formative assessments
within the clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving
feedback on the skills they need.

The Royal College is planning that all specialty and subspecialty programs in
Canada will adopt CBD in gradual phases. All disciplines have been divided
into seven cohort groups, each of which will adopt CBD at different times.
National implementation of CBD within certain, individual programs began in
July 2017 - with more disciplines following in subsequent years.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and
traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification. Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs
will include the completion of a Royal College examination; however, residents
in CBD programs will also be assessed against program milestones throughout
their training. Within a CBD program, all milestones (documented within an
electronic portfolio) and the Royal College examination must be successfully
completed to achieve certification.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

Program application language: Either English or French

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP must be submitted with each application.  
EITHER:

  * A copy of Canadian Birth Certificate or a copy of Certificate of Canadian Citizenship

OR

  * A copy of Permanent Resident Card (copy of both sides of the card) OR a copy of an IMM 5292, IMM 1000, IMM 5688;   
NB: the Permanent Resident card can be expired.

OR

  * A copy of Citizenship Card (copy of both sides of the card)

P.S: the passport is not an acceptable proof of citizenship.

Each year, all candidates applying in a CaRMS match must provide proof of
valid current citizenship or permanent resident status. As of the 2021 R-1
match cycle, CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate
the citizenship/legal status verification, which is usually completed by
Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) offices.

if an applicant has had their citizenship/legal status documentation verified
by any of the following organizations for the current R-1 match, the applicant
will not be required to assign a proof of citizenship/PR document (as pictured
in the screenshot below).

  * Medical Council of Canada ([MCC](https://mcc.ca/))
  * British Columbia's Clinical Assessment Program ([BC-CAP](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/clinical-assessment/))
  * Bureau de cooperation interuniversitaire ([BCI](https://www.bci-qc.ca/en/))
  * Alberta International Medical Graduate Program ([AIMG](https://www.aimg.ca/))

For further information, please check the following link on CaRMS:
[https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-
citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-)

Examinations

Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the MCCQE Part I exam, please include the statement of
results and supplemental information report in your application.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the NAC exam, please include the statement of results and
supplemental information report in your application. The MCCQE Part II or
Certificate of Registration of the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada
(LMCC) is accepted in place of the NAC Examination.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. Chief resident assessments may also
be of value. Late references will not be accepted

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Require autobiographical letter describing the applicant and specific
interests in the program. Other topics to cover include: explanation of
academic background and how it may be particularly suited for neurology;
future career goals.

Custom Résumé / CV

Additional required IMG documents

Lettre de reconnaissance de l'équivalence du diplôme MD

Please provide the results of the exams that permitted you to have your
medical degree recognized and approved by the CMQ.

Graduates with the diploma of doctor of osteopathy awarded by a school of
osteopathic medicine situated in the United States providing that the school
is accredited by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the
American Osteopathic Association do not have to obtain the recognition of the
equivalence of the medical diploma by the CMQ. These graduates do not require
the MCCQE Part I, the National Assessment Collaboration (NAC), or the
Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada (LMCC) in order to apply.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered





* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: January 21, 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Details regarding interview dates:  
  
  
January 21, 2025  
  
Notification/Invitation:Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.  
  
Details regarding the interview process:Applications are screened and selected
applicants are invited for interview. Usually, there are 4-5 separate
interviews with 1-2 members of the residency committee. Interviews will be
conducted virtually for ALL candidates, as mandated by CaRMS. Further details
on the conduct of such interviews will be communicated directly with selected
applicants.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Interviews are granted on basis of CaRMS file review; final decision based on
interview.

## Program goals

The mission of the McGill Pediatric Neurology Residency Program is to help
each resident become independent and competent Pediatric Neurologists. This is
done through abundant clinical exposure in general Pediatric Neurology and in
various sub-specialties, multiple didactic and formal teaching activities and
tailored coaching of the residents with the overall goal of gaining the
necessary skills and knowledge in both scholar and non-scholar CanMEDS roles.
In addition, the Pediatric Neurology Residency Program helps residents choose
their career path and guide them regarding the necessary steps that have to be
done to achieve their goals. Moreover, our mission also includes maintaining a
collegial, stimulant and respectful working environment, with a constant
dedication to providing the best clinical care to our patient population.

## Selection process goals

First, we are looking for applicants that have a clear interest in Pediatric
Neurology. In addition, applicants should have a good work ethic, demonstrate
professionalism, have good communication and good organization skills. The
applicant should also be resourceful and should be able to work efficiently in
a multidisciplinary team. Moreover, we expect the applicant to demonstrate
curiosity and autonomy in the development and application of their
individualized learning plan. We believe all these skills are necessary to
become competent and independent Pediatric Neurologists.  

## File review process

Review team composition : Review team composition : The file of each applicant
is reviewed by both Pediatric Neurology Program co-directors individually.
Both program co-directors then meet to discuss each candidate and decide if an
interview is offered or not.  
Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Research, publications, electives, other   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Evaluations, electives in Pediatric Neurology   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Optional - ability to manage time and to maintain a good balance   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Optional - leadership skills, ability to manage time   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Performance throughout medical school   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in discipline and program location   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Skills of applicant in all CanMEDs roles   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in research   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic perfomance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We prefer applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Elective Requirements:We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: Although we usually prefer applicants to have done onsite
electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work in a team and as a consultant   
Collegiality |  Ability to interact with others   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak and write in English. Ability or motivation to learn to speak and write in French.   
Health advocacy |  Review of CV if applicable to applicant   
Interest in the discipline |  Interest in the discipline is evaluated in all aspects of the applicant`s documents and interview   
Interest in the program |  Interest in the program is evaluated in all aspects of the applicant`s documents and interview   
Leadership skills |  Review of CV if applicable to applicant   
Professionalism |  Interactions with colleagues, neurologists and residents during the interview   
Scholarly activities |  Review of CV if applicable to applicant   
Other interview component(s) |  Interview format :  
Interviews will be conducted virtually for ALL candidates.  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**There are a number of highlights to the McGill Pediatric Neurology residency
program:**

  * High volume and wide spectrum of exposure to in-patient consultations from the emergency department, neonatal and pediatric intensive care units and wards.
  * Wide range of highly specialized clinics in addition to General Neurology clinics including: Neurogenetics, Drug-resistant Epilepsy, Neuromuscular, Neonatal Neurology, Demyelinating, Cerebral Palsy, Developmental delay, Stroke, Brain Malformations, and Neuro-oncology clinics
  * A team of 9 staff neurologists with a wide range of research interests including epilepsy, cerebral palsy, neuroinflammation, spinal muscular atrophy, neurogenetics of cerebral malformations, neuro-oncology
  * 6 month research block, during which residents can initiate and complete a research project in clinical neurology or neurosciences
  * Community Neurology Clinics, and a Residents Continuity Clinic
  * High volume of neurophysiology testing including EEG, telemetry, ABR, SER, EMG/NCS and intracranial recording
  * Excellent Epilepsy surgery program with intra-op MRI
  * Integration with McGill Adult Neurology Residency Program
  * High caliber academic Teaching Curriculum in General Neurology and Pediatric Neurology 





* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Introduction**  
---  
  |  In 1994, Neurology was expanded to five years of postgraduate training. During the complete program, the clinical training is comprehensive and a strong emphasis is placed on the scientific basis of contemporary neurology. There is a Residents Continuity Clinic that starts in R2 for the time-based curriculum. For residents under the CBD curriculum, it will start in the later half of the first year of residency. There are 2 Community Neurology Rotations.  
  
**PGY 1 GENERAL PEDIATRICS**  
  |  |  **Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location / Notes**  
---|---|---  
General Pediatrics  |  52 WEEKS  |  MCH   
  
**PGY 2**  
  |  |  **Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location / Notes**  
---|---|---  
Clinical Teaching Unit (CTU):Adult Neuro-8 weeks; Pediatric Neuro-16 weeks  |  24 weeks  |  JGH,MCH,MGH,MNH   
Pediatric Electives (Psychiatry, neuroradiology, neurosurgery, genetics, ID, hemato-oncology, etc ...) |  28 weeks  |  MCH   
  
**PGY 3**  
  |  |  **Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location / Notes**  
---|---|---  
Neuroscience - 6 month research block  |  24 weeks  |  JGH, MCH, MGH, MNH   
CTU:Adult Neuro-16 weeks;Pediatric Neuro-8 weeks  |  24 weeks  |  JGH,MCH,MGH,MNH   
Community Neurology |  4 weeks |    
  
**PGY 4**  
  |  |  **Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location / Notes**  
---|---|---  
EEG  |  4 weeks  |  MCH   
CTU:Adult Neuro-16 weeks; Pediatric Neuro-24 weeks  |  48 weeks  |  JGH,MCH,MGH,MNH   
Community Neurology |  4 weeks |    
EMG |  4 weeks |  JGH,MCH,MGH,MNH   
  
**PGY 5**  
  |  |  **Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location / Notes**  
---|---|---  
CTU  |  8 weeks  |  MCH   
EMG-Neuromuscular Diseases  |  8 weeks   |  MCH,MGH,MNH   
Electives:Neuroadiology,Neuropathology, neurosurgery, OPD clinics  |  12 weeks  |  JGH,MCH,MGH,MNH   
Out-Patient Clinics  |  24 weeks  |  JGH,MCH,MGH,MNH   
  
  
  |    |  **CBD CURRICULUM** **Seminars**  
---  
  |  Four to six hours are spent in seminars, lectures, teaching sessions per week. There is a weekly pedagogical half-day, which all residents (pediatric and adult) attend, at which a variety of clinical and scientific topics are presented and discussed. In addition, there is a weekly teaching session on pediatric-neurology dedicated topics. There are weekly neuroradiology rounds and general neurology grand rounds. There is in addition an EEG round every two weeks and a comprehensive epilepsy conference, also every two weeks. There is a yearly Pediatric Neurology Education retreat for the residents on a pediatric neurology topic.  
  
  
  
* * *

# Training Sites

**Main site:**

-Montreal Children's Hospital (MCH)/Glen Campus

**Other sites:**

-Montreal Neurological Hospital and Institute (MNH/I)

-Montreal General Hospital (MGH)

-Jewish General Hospital (JGH)

-McGill University Health Center Glen Site

**The Montreal Children's Hospital**  (MCH) relocated to new state of the art
facilities at the Glen campus in May 2015.  The MCH has 2 in-patient video EEG
monitoring beds and two portable video EEG monitoring units for the ICU's. It
has up to 6 in-patient neurology beds. The Neurology consultation service is
one of the busiest in the hospital, seeing large volumes of consults from the
emergency department, neonatal and pediatric ICUs, and in-patient wards. There
is an average of 6 consults per day.

The MCH has approximately 5000* out-patient clinical visits in neurology per
year. This hospital offers a broad spectrum of general pediatric neurology and
specialized and mutidisciplary clinics which include: Neurogenetics,
Neuromuscular, Intractable epilepsy, Cerebral Palsy, Neonatal Neurology,
Demyelinating disease, Brain malformation, neuro-oncology and Developmental
Delay clinics.  
* This does not account changes related to the COVID19 pandemic.

Weekly, there are: Neuroradiology rounds, General Neurology Grand Rounds,
Pediatric Neurology Grand Rounds, Neurology Academic Half-day teaching and
Pediatric Neurology dedicated teaching.

The residents have dedicated computers and desks, and have access to a large
physical and electronic library of textbooks, journals and software sources.

**Other sites:**

The **MNH**  in-patient service consists of the CTU of 16 beds (11 general
neurology and 5 cerebrovascular disease), and the Seizure service (8 beds, 5
designated for monitoring). There is a XXX bed stroke ward. Residents are
assigned to these three units. Also rotating through these services are
residents from other specialties. Most patients seen in the MNI are out-
patients. There are many general neurology clinics as well as many specialty
clinics, e.g. movement disorders, MS, ALS , neuropathy, neuromuscular, post-
polio. Residents rotate through these. A full range of investigative
facilities is available at the MNH including MRI , CT, PET, EEG, EMG; time
spent in these laboratories is part of every resident's training. Exposure to
the many neuroscientists of the MNH and MNI is an important part of the
training experience in this institution.

The **Glen Site (of the McGill University Health Center)** is a consultation
service offered to patients of a busy hospital, including an emergency rooms,
wards, cancer center.

The **Montreal General Hospital**  has 15 neurology beds, two or three
clinical residents and one to two laboratory residents, plus residents from
internal medicine. Six hundred emergency patients per year. The MGH consists
of an active clinical neurological service, concentrating on the neurological
disorders seen in a large general hospital. In addition, there is a large and
active neuroscience research unit.

The **Jewish General Hospital**  has an extremely active neurology
consultation service. Consultation requests are mainly from the emergency
room. House staff include 1-2 neurology residents plus one or more resident(s)
from internal medicine or other programs. Residents see as many consultations
as possible. There are approximately 2000 neurology referrals per year. There
are teaching conferences in clinical neuroscience, neuro-radiology, neuro-
ophthalmology, and neuro-pathology. There is also an active Neuro-Science
Research Unit.

Residents have full access to McGill Health Sciences Library and Services. In
addition, at each site there is a dedicated residents' computer with access to
internet, hospital laboratory data, and medical imaging, plus a variety of
software sources (e.g., NeuroBase).



Neurology at McGill is a university-wide program, with five participating
hospitals: the Montreal Children's Hospital, the Montreal Neurological
Hospital , the Glen site (of the McGill University Health Center), the
Montreal General Hospital, and the Jewish General Hospital.  We aim to produce
excellent clinical neurologists with a good grounding in the basic
neurosciences. Trainees come from diverse backgrounds, educationally and
culturally, including English and French Canada, the USA, and elsewhere in the
world.



* * *

# Additional Information

Quick Facts

-There are opportunities for interprovincial and international electives ONLY under special circumstances.

-Ratio of residents to faculty is 6-8 pediatric neurology residents to 9 pediatric neurology staff, and 20 residents (adult and pediatric neurology combined) to 60 neurology staff.

-Average patient load is 6-10 patients/resident



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27082?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27082