#  University of Calgary - Neurosurgery - Calgary  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on October 23, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Jay Riva-Cambrin  

Address Clinical Neurosciences  
Foothills Hospital  
1403 - 29 St. N.W.  
Calgary, Alberta, T2N 2T9  

Work  (403)944-1259

Websites of Interest [ Neurosurgery Residency
](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/departments/dcns/education/residency/neurosurgery)  
[ Division of Neurosurgery
](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/departments/dcns/sections/section-neurosurgery)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Jay Riva-Cambrin

Title: Residency Program Director

Email: jay.rivacambrin@ucalgary.ca

Phone: 403-944-1259

  

Name: Melissa Robertson

Title: Program Administrator

Email: melissa.robertson@ucalgary.ca

Phone: 403-944-1259

  

* * *

# Important Information

The Neurosurgery Residency Training Program at the University of Calgary
transitioned to competency-based medical education (CBME) in July 2019 with
all trainees entering the program after this date affiliated with [Competence
by Design (CBD)](https://www.royalcollege.ca/en/standards-and-
accreditation/competence-by-design.html), which aims to enhance patient care
by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving patient
needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education process.

CBD uses time as a framework for competency assessment rather than the basis
for progression. It is not anticipated that the duration of training will
change for the majority of trainees. Residency training is broken down into
[stages](https://canmeds.royalcollege.ca/en/milestones), and each stage will
have a series of entrustable professional activities (EPAs) and milestones
based on the required competencies. These EPAs and milestones improve learning
outcomes and will involve more frequent, formative assessments within the
clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving feedback
on the skills they need.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

please limit your personal letter to one page

Custom Résumé / CV

Abstract/Publications

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Calgary interviews will be carried out the
afternoons of January 23 and 24, 2025.  Interviews will be conducted in two
groups - either January 23 or 24 via Zoom.  All applicants will be invited to
attend the virtual Neurosurgery rounds on the morning of January 24 and
virtual social that evening.  It is anticipated that all applicants would have
had the opportunity to join our service through an elective or job shadow
prior to these interviews.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The program director prescreens the
applications, then candidates are contacted by email to arrange interviews
spanning 1-2 days. The group of interviewees will be invited to attend
Neurosurgery Rounds from 0700-0800 and city-wide Neuroscience Rounds from
0800-1000 via Zoom.  The format of the virtual interviews will be provided
when candidates are selected for interview.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Selection is based on past experience in neurosurgery, a strong academic
record, commitment to academic activities including teaching and research,
excellent communication and interpersonal skills, and ability to cope with
stress.  

## Program goals

It is the purpose of this Residency Training Program to provide its residents
with a world-class education and experience in the principles and practice of
Neurological Surgery.  At the end of their residency, Royal College candidates
in Neurosurgery should be proficient in all aspects of regular cranial, spinal
and peripheral nerve Neuorsurgical practices and be faniliar with all aspects
of sub-specialized Neurosurgical care.

## Selection process goals

Residents must demonstrate the knowledge, skills and attitudes relating to
gender, culture and ethnicity pertinent to Neurosurgery. In addition, all
residents must demonstrate an ability to incorporate gender, cultural and
ethnic perspectives in research methodology, data presentation and analysis.
On completion of the educational program, the graduate physician will be
competent to function as a consultant in Neurosurgery.

## File review process

Review team composition : Applications are reviewed by the Program Director
and 2-3 faculty members of the Residency Program Committee. Input will be
obtained from the residents for those candidates that have participated in any
elective or visiting rotations,

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  completeness and up to date   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  having an elective in Calgary is not mandatory, but always welcomed and encouraged   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Not mandatory but considered an asset.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Not mandatory but considered an asset.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Not mandatory but considered an asset.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  comments and awards   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  a genuine interest in neurosurgery   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  performance on electives, intelligence and personality   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  strengths, numbers, and affiliation to neurosurgery   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  brief review to ensure there are no "red flags"   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We encourage everyone to do an elective in Calgary, when
possible, for your own knowledge and experience. It is certainly not mandatory
to do so.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

####  

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  each candidate is evaluated on an individual basis   
Collegiality |  each candidate is evaluated on an individual basis   
Communication skills |  each candidate is evaluated on an individual basis   
Health advocacy |  each candidate is evaluated on an individual basis   
Interest in the discipline |  important to ensure the candidate is committed   
Interest in the program |  important to ensure the candidate is committed   
Leadership skills |  each candidate is evaluated on an individual basis   
Professionalism |  each candidate is evaluated on an individual basis   
Scholarly activities |  not a major concern however important for research pursuits   
Other interview component(s) |  As all interviews will be held virtually, the format is still being considered. Applicants will be advised of the process at the time of interview selections.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Our neurosurgical residents enjoy a congenial association amongst themselves
and attending staff.  There are 2-3 resident functions throughout the year at
which residents and their spouses/significant others can attend for a bit of
relaxation.  Past events have included bowling, hiking, skiing, and go karting
to name a few in addition to our annual resident retreat.  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 6 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

PGY-1

In addition to introductory rotations on Neurosurgery, this year is also
comprised of 5 blocks on Internal Medicine, and General Surgery to further
solidify a core medical / surgical background and prepare the resident for
their Surgical Foundations Examination.  In addition, an additional block is
provided for an "elective" subsequent to discussions with the program
director.   The new Royal College Competency by Design training for
Neurosurgery came into effect July 1, 2018 and will gradually replace the
previous CanMEDS training format.

PGY-2

Another 6 blocks of Neurosurgery along with 3 blocks of Neurology and 4 blocks
of ICU experience serve to complete this final year of "core" training.

PGY-3 to 6

This period will include 25 blocks of neurosurgery, 6 blocks of pediatric
neurosurgery and 2 blocks of endovascular neurosurgery with graduated
responsibility for patient care and surgical procedures, 3 blocks in
neuropathology, 3 blocks in neuroradiology and 13 blocks (1 year) of research.

Research

A 13-block research rotation is mandatory. This time interval is considered a
minimum, and may be extended as necessary. Collaboration with clinician
scientists and scientists of the Hotchkiss Brain Institute is encouraged.
Research time may be used for clinical or basic science projects.
Alternatively candidates are encouraged to pursue Master's or PhD pathways in
Neuroscience and Medical Education. Funding is generally available through
residency stipend, Alberta Heritage for Medical Research, and Canadian
Institute of Health Research.

Academic Activity

Seminars in basic science, neuropathology, neuroradiology and neuroscience
occur weekly. Educational time is protected to foster academic development of
the resident.  Residents are expected to participate in research and publish
in peer review journals each year of their residency.  Peer-reviewed
presentation at national meetings is strongly encouraged and heavily supported
by the Division.

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

-Alberta Children's Hospital

-Foothills Hospital

\- Some rotations are carried out at the Peter Lougheed, South Health Campus
and Rockyview Hospitals

-The ratio of residents to faculty is 18 faculty: 17 residents

-Residents are provided with access to electronic medical resources and on-line journals 24/7

-There are no mandatory rural rotations

-Opportunities for interprovincial and international electives exist within the program

* * *

# Additional Information

**Highlights -**

  * **all  adult neurosurgery at one institution**
  * **comprehensive complex ortho/neuro spine program**
  * **intra-operative MRI/robotic arm program**
  * **close proximity and collaboration with Alberta Children's Hospital**
  * **designated  Level 1 trauma facility**
  * **all subspecialty interests including epilepsy, functional, cerebrovascular and peripheral nerve**





* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26445?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26445