#  Dalhousie University - Radiation Oncology - Halifax  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on October 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Lara Best  

Address Radiation Oncology  
Nova Scotia Cancer Centre  
Dickson Building  
5820 University Avenue Halifax, NS B3H 1V7 , Nova Scotia, B3H1V7  

Work  (902) 473-6068

Websites of Interest [ Dalhousie Radiation Oncology
](http://medicine.dal.ca/departments/department-sites/radiation-oncology.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Karen Watts

Title: Academic Manager

Email: KarenA.Watts@nshealth.ca

Phone: 9024736068

  

* * *

# Important Information

To obtain a postgraduate training license after the conclusion of the match,
Canadian Medical Graduates (CMG's) must have registered and challenged the
Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Exam Part 1 (MCCQE 1) by July 1, 2025.
Those unsuccessful in the exam are subject to the decision of the regulatory
authority regarding licensure.

Our program values the importance of equity, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) as
a goal in the selection process.

To help inform and advance EDI in our selection process we are pleased to
offer the option to submit the voluntary CaRMS Self Identification
Questionnaire. Additionally, there is an additional verification process for
Indigenous membership or citizenship. Please see sections below for further
information.”

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Thank you for your interest in our program.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

####  

You must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident _**at the time of
application**_.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three reference letters are required.  Reference letters must be written by
staff physicians (not residents). It is preferred that at least two letters
are written by physicians who have worked with you in a clinical setting.  

Please do not submit more than three letters.  Additional letters beyond the
required three will not be reviewed.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

We ask you to submit a document that specifically answers the following
questions. You are encouraged to provide supportive evidence when appropriate
in answering these questions. Please limit your answers to no more than 250
words per question. Your letter should be structured with these headings and
the response to each question below the heading.

1\. What skills do you think you would need to succeed in a Radiation Oncology
residency training program.  Illustrate with a few examples where you have
used these skills.

2. What excites you about potentially joining our program, and what qualities are you looking for in a residency program?

3\. Describe what you can contribute to our program. Please speciﬁcally refer
to any relevant leadership experience, evidence you can work as part of a
team, and how you have contributed to your medical school and/or community at
large.

4: (Optional) Consider providing additional comment on any perceived
weakness(es) or gaps in your application, and please explain anything else
about your application which may not be clear to the committee.

Feel free to be original!

Conditionally required

Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry

**Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry and/or Self-Identification of Black
Learners**

We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. Any responses received will be used only to support our
program’s and Dalhousie’s equity, diversity, and inclusion goals.

We invite applicable candidates to also complete Dalhousie’s verification
process for Indigenous identity, membership, or citizenship; or the self-
identification process for those who identify as Black.



**Conditionally required**

Declaration of Indigenous Ancestry

If you have self-identified as Indigenous, we require additional information.

Applicants shall provide a certified copy of one or more of the following
documents with their application:

  1. A Certificate of Indian Status issued by the Government of Canada, or a First Nation recognized by the Government of Canada;
  2. Written confirmation of membership or citizenship with a federally recognized band or tribal authority in the United States or Canada;
  3. Written confirmation of Inuit enrolment or a copy of an Inuit enrolment/beneficiary card issued by a modern Inuit treaty organization or government as follows:  
3.1 Inuvialuit Regional Corporation;  
3.2 Nunavut Tunngavik Incorporated;  
3.3 Makivik Corporation;  
3.4 Nunatsiavut Government;

  4. Written confirmation of Métis citizenship/membership or a copy of a Métis citizenship/membership card provided by a Métis government as follows:  
4.1 Métis National Council governing members:  
4.2 Métis Nation – Saskatchewan;  
4.3 Métis Nation of Alberta;  
4.4 Métis Nation British Columbia;  
4.5 Métis Nation of Ontario;  
4.6 Manitoba Métis Federation;  
4.7 Métis Settlements of Alberta.

Applicants who do not supply any of the documents listed above shall supply a
250-word statement with applicable supporting documentation that demonstrates
how they meet the citizenship or membership criteria established by the
recognized Indigenous nation to which they claim membership or citizenship.

The above information is only made available to Dalhousie PGME, Program
Director, and Program Manager of applicable training programs and will only be
used for purposes of the CaRMS matching process.

Please see below for the certification of documents.

# Certification of Documents

Documents may be certified by one of the following professionals:

  1. Accountant
  2. Chief of a First Nations Band
  3. Commissioner for Oaths
  4. Employee of a Service Canada Centre acting in an official capacity
  5. Funeral Director
  6. Justice of the Peace
  7. Lawyer, Magistrate, or Notary
  8. Manager of a Financial Institution
  9. Regulated Medical or Health Practitioner
  10. Member of Parliament or their staff
  11. Member of a Provincial/Territorial Legislature or their staff
  12. Minister of Religion
  13. Municipal Clerk
  14. Official of a Federal/Provincial/Indigenous Government Department or one of its agencies
  15. Official of an Embassy, Consulate, or High Commission
  16. Police Officer
  17. Professional Engineer
  18. Social Worker
  19. Teacher
  20. University Professor or Staff

The person certifying the document(s) must:

  1. Compare the original to the copy
  2. State their official position or title
  3. Print their name
  4. Sign their name
  5. Write the date they certified the document
  6. Provide their telephone number
  7. Write the following statement: This is a true copy of the original document, which has not been altered in any way

**Conditionally required**

Self-identification Process for Black Learners

If you self-identify as Black, please complete the following questions, and
include with your application:

1\. **Do you self-identify as Black?**

Yes/No

2.**If yes, please choose the category you identify most with:**

a. African Nova Scotian*

b. Black Maritimer

i. Nova Scotia without ties to a historic African Nova Scotian community

ii. New Brunswick

iii. Prince Edward Island

c. Black Canadian

d. Multiracial

i. African Nova Scotian and ______

ii. Black Maritimer and ________

iii. Black Canadian and _________

iv. Black and Indigenous

3\. **In 500 words or less, please speak to the self-identification category
you chose above. Include things to highlight your connection to Black
community as well as your lineage. If you chose African Nova Scotian, note
Dalhousie uses the following definition from the African Nova Scotian
Strategy, and we ask you speak to your specific land-based community.**

* “African Nova Scotians are a distinct People who descend from free and enslaved Black Planters, Black Loyalists, Black Refugees, Maroons and other Black people who inhabited the original 52 land-based Black communities in that part of Mi’kma’ki known as Nova Scotia.” ([African Nova Scotian Strategy](https://www.dal.ca/about/mission-vision-values/equity-diversity-inclusion-and-accessibility/about-office-equity-inclusion.html#:~:text=WHAT%20IS%20THE%20AFRICAN%20NOVA,with%20African%20Nova%20Scotian%20communities))



All self-identification documentation will be reviewed by the Black faculty
leadership within the Faculty of Medicine.



Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire or to complete Dalhousie’s verification process, but for those
that do feel comfortable doing so the information received would only be used
to advantage those who would contribute to the diversity of our community.

Optional - will be reviewed

Self-identification questionnaire

We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. Any responses received will be used only to support our
program’s and Dalhousie’s equity, diversity, and inclusion goals.

Additionally, we invite applicable candidates to also complete Dalhousie’s
verification process for Indigenous identity, membership, or citizenship.

Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire or to complete Dalhousie’s verification process, but for those
that do feel comfortable doing so the information received would only be used
to advantage those who would contribute to the diversity of our community.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

We score the application using a formalized template, evaluating the
candidate's academic record, strengths in the clinical environment, background
in scholarly activities, leadership ability, and interest in Radiation
Oncology.  The interview assesses the personal qualities of the applicant that
are not assessed or are difficult to assess in the application.  We aim to
reward candidates who demonstrate competence across the range of CanMEDS
roles.  The application score and interview each contribute 50% to the final
scoring.  We strive to assess each component of the application and interview
independently on its own merits.  The selection committee reserves the right
to adjust final rankings by consensus to address issues of program priority
and to take into account "red flags" identified including but not limited to
professionalism or academic concerns.

Our program and university value the importance of equity, diversity and
inclusion (EDI) in residency education, and achieving a diverse and inclusive
group of residents is a goal in our selection process.

We recognize that scholarly activity may include activities like research,
medical education, patient safety, quality improvement, leadership, and
patient advocacy and outreach, and we aim to attract residents interested in a
wide variety of scholarly activities.  We also recognize that some interested
applicants may not have encountered Radiation Oncology until late in their
training, and these candidates should not be discouraged from applying.

All professionalism concerns are taken seriously during all points of the
selection process.  If professionalism concerns arise, the committee reviews
the concerns on an individual basis to reach a decision about "rank" or "do
not rank" status.  Poor performance on clinical rotations and academic
difficulty in medical school as reflected on the MSPR, transcript, and
reference letters may also be considered "red flags".

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will be conducted in the
Mini Medical Interview (MMI) format.  Candidates will rotate through several
stations designed to assess the applicant's suitability for our training
program.  One station will be a meeting with the Program Director and Program
Administrator.  The interview will take approximately 1 hour.  More
information will be provided to candidates before the interview.  The
application and interview scores both contribute to the final ranking.  
  
Opportunities may be provided for candidates to learn more about the program
virtually.  Please note that attendance at and participation in any program
promotion activities is not tracked or considered in any way by the selection
committee.  This is for your information only.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

We are looking for candidates who are likely to succeed in community and/or
academic practice as a Radiation Oncologist.  Emphasis will be placed on
candidates with good clinical and interpersonal communication skills, who work
well in a health care team, who exhibit professionalism, who have leadership
experience and potential and who demonstrate motivation and interest in
Radiation Oncology. Scholarly work is valued by our committee including
activities such as clinical research, medical education, quality improvement
and others. Research experience is an asset but is not required.  The
selection process has been developed with all of these criteria in mind.

Selection Policy: This will link you to important criteria
information:<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/nova-scotia-new-brunswick-pei/>[
](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/nova-scotia-new-brunswick-pei/)

Our program and university value the importance of equity, diversity and
inclusion (EDI) in residency education, and achieving a diverse and inclusive
group of residents is a goal in our selection process.

## Program goals

Upon completion of training, a resident is expected to be a competent
specialist in Radiation Oncology capable of assuming a consultant's role in
the specialty. The resident must acquire a working knowledge of the
theoretical basis of the specialty, including its foundations in the basic
medical sciences and research. The resident who successfully completes
training will have the capacity and skills for ongoing learning and assessment
of new knowledge and technology as well its appropriate incorporation into
daily Radiation Oncology practice.

The specialist in Radiation Oncology must possess clinical competence in
oncology and technical proficiency in therapeutic uses of radiation. The
Radiation Oncologist must have a sound background in the sciences relevant to
the understanding of malignant diseases and its treatment by radiation therapy
and other modalities. The acquisition of clinical skills, inpatient assessment
and management, developed by assuming responsibility for the care of both
hospitalized and ambulatory patients, must be accompanied by proficiency in
planning and executing radiation treatments utilizing external beams,
brachytherapy including intracavitary and interstitial radioactive sources,
and systemically administered radionuclides.

Residents must demonstrate the requisite knowledge, skills, and attitudes for
effective patient centered care and service to a diverse population. In all
aspects of specialist practice, the graduate must be able to address issues of
age, gender, sexual orientation, culture, ethnicity and ethics in a
professional manner.

The resident is required to complete at least one scholarly project during the
course of training.

At the completion of training, the resident will function effectively as a
Medical Expert, Communicator, Collaborator, Leader, Health Advocate, Scholar,
and Professional. See the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
for the specific objectives of training.

## Selection process goals

The goal of our selection process is to identify and appropriately rank
candidates who are likely to succeed as clinical and academic Radiation
Oncologists.  Emphasis will be placed on selecting well-rounded individuals
with aptitude in the following areas:

  * Ability to work on a team
  * Clinical skills
  * Communication skills
  * Leadership ability
  * Scholarly activity
  * Motivation and interest in Radiation Oncology
  * Ability to self-reflect and strive for personal improvement

We review all aspects of the application with these attributes in mind, and
candidates are advised to provide evidence of these attributes in their
application.

Our program follows the Best Practices in Application and Selection (BPAS)
recommendations, and we have reported our work in resident selection at a
national level.

Dalhousie is committed to fostering a collegial culture grounded in diversity
and inclusiveness. The university encourages applications from Indigenous
persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women, persons of a
minority sexual orientation and/or gender identity, and all candidates who
would contribute to the diversity of our community.

Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self Identification
questionnaire or to complete the verification process for Indigenous identity,
membership, or citizenship, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so
the information received would only be used to advantage those who would
contribute to the diversity of our community.

Any self identification questionnaires received and the results of the
verification process will be reviewed as part of our file review process, and
used as an aid for file reviewers in selecting a diverse group of candidates
for interviews. Information received may also be used by the program to adjust
final rankings, at the discretion of the selection committee, to address
issues of program priority and diversity.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our selection committee is comprised of Radiation
Oncologists, residents, and other members of the Radiation Oncology team.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
The number of applicants has been stable in the last couple of years.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  
All applicant files are reviewed independently by the Program Director and at
least one other member of the selection committee. Applications are scored,
and this scoring is used to short-list applicants for interviews.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We do not ask you to submit a separate CV; we review the information submitted on the CaRMS portal.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  At least one elective in Radiation Oncology is required   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Demonstration that the candidate has contributed to their school and/or community   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Including relevant leadership experiences and evidence candidate can work as part of a team   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Ability to work in clinical environment, communication, teamwork, responsiveness to feedback, professionalism (e.g., punctuality and behavioural concerns as identified on rotations)   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Motivation and interest in Radiation Oncology   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Reference letters are each scored in accordance with our selection criteria.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Discovery of new knowledge, application and integration of knowledge, and teaching   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Not used in scoring provided the candidate meets minimal requirements.   
Other file component(s) |  We use a broader definition of "scholarly activity" rather than assessing "research" specifically. No extra credit is given for work done specifically in Radiation Oncology (versus other medical disciplines).   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We require applicants to have completed at least one dedicated two-week
elective in our specialty.  We feel that medical students benefit from
participating in diverse elective experiences, and we explicitly do not award
additional points in our scoring system to candidates for having completed
Radiation Oncology electives longer than two weeks total. In extenuating
circumstances where the applicant has not been able to complete an elective,
we may still consider your application provided the situation in explained in
the personal letter.

For candidates who complete an elective in our department, performance during
that elective can contribute to the selection process.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work well on a team and to contribute to multidisciplinary care   
Collegiality |  Ability to get along with others   
Communication skills |  Ability to have difficult conversations and to communicate well with team members and others   
Health advocacy |  Potential residents are expected to act as a health advocate when required   
Interest in the discipline |  Knowledge of what a career in Radiation Oncology entails may be assessed during the interview   
Interest in the program |  We do not expect candidates to make statements confirming their interest in our program   
Leadership skills |  Demonstration of what the candidate can contribute to our program beyond good clinical care   
Professionalism |  Professional behaviour is valued and expected   
Scholarly activities |  Evaluated in the application and not specifically evaluated during the interview.   
Other interview component(s) |  This is an MMI interview. More detailed information will be provided to candidates selected for interviews.  
  
The interview and the CaRMS application are scored separately and each
contribute equally to the final ranking. Any identified "red flags" on the
application or interview are discussed by the selection committee. If the red
flag is felt to be substantial enough that it would impact residency training,
it may affect where the candidate is ranked or result in a "do not rank"
status. All issues raised about professionalism at all points in the
application process may be considered as “red flags”.  
  
Candidates are not ranked based on perceptions of their likelihood of ranking
our program highly.  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

We are committed to providing the best education possible for our residents.
By completion of the program, residents will be well prepared for all aspects
of practice in Radiation Oncology.  Our graduates have gone on to practice in
community and academic environments across Canada and globally.

We sincerely thank you for your interest in our program.

Highlights of the program include:

  * Friendly and supportive training environment.
  * Excellent exposure to all of the latest technology (VMAT, SRS/SBRT, HDR brachytherapy for prostate, gynecologic and skin cancers.  Orthovoltage, 3D-printed bolus, adaptive radiotherapy).
  * Small program size allows us to “individualize” the resident experience.
  * Varian Ethos units equipped with HyperSight advanced imaging system for adaptive radiotherapy and planning.
  * Dedicated and intensive exam preparation for senior residents.
  * Mentorship program which provides resident with staff support with career planning, advice on work/life balance, and academic support.
  * Resident longitudinal clinic which provides the senior resident an opportunity to follow patients before, during, and after treatment.  This leads to greater responsibility in decision making and the managerial aspects of clinical work.
  * A formalized introductory rotation to Radiation Oncology which reviews common disease sites and their management.
  * An introductory rotation for On Treatment Management, Simulation and Contouring (OMSC) in PGY2 when residents complete off-service rotations and return to radiation oncology rotations.  
  * Creative electives are encouraged in accordance with the resident’s career goals (brachytherapy, stereotactic radiotherapy, medical education, tumor sites, research, among other topics).
  * Rotation in Quality Improvement and Patient Safety as a senior resident.
  * Residents are fully engaged in all aspects of the administration and leadership of the residency program.  Residents have taken the lead in identifying the need for, designing, and implementing new initiatives and other program improvements.  We encourage our residents to take on leadership roles.
  * Our department is growing in terms of its support of scholarly activity; there are many opportunities for residents to take on projects of their choosing.
  * We have been innovators in residency training in Radiation Oncology, and have published and presented much of our work nationally and internationally.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Program structure**

Successful candidates will enter Competence By Design (CBD) training whereby
residents will progress through training once they are able to demonstrate
that they meet the appropriate competencies for each stage:  Transition to
Discipline, Foundations of Discipline, Core of Discipline, and Transition to
Practice.  

In the CBD-based program, residents will still complete residency after
approximately five years, on average.  For individual residents, more or less
time may be required.  Information on CBD and on the requirements of the
Specialty Committee in Radiation Oncology can be found on the Royal College
website.

Our program has successfully implemented several new rotations and initiatives
with the transition to CBD.  We anticipate making improvements to the program
based on our initial experiences with CBD, and therefore the information
included here is subject to change.

The program schedule is divided into 4 week block rotations (for 13 blocks
each academic year).

Transition to Discipline (2 months)

  * Two four-week block rotations on the Radiation Oncology service in Halifax.
  * The rotation structure is designed in such a way to allow the resident to successfully complete the required Entrustable Professional Activities (EPAs) which are related to patient assessment and handover.
  * Includes mostly outpatient clinics with exposure to other activities including, inpatient care, radiation treatment planning and delivery, on-call coverage, and tutorials to support skills needed specific to Radiation Oncology residency.

Foundation of Discipline (11-18 months)

  * The purpose of this stage is to provide the resident with broad exposure to general and oncology-specific medical and surgical care.
  * Includes a minimum of 11 blocks of “off-service” rotations. 
    * Thoracic Surgery
    * Gynecologic Oncology
    * Palliative Medicine
    * Neurology
    * Infectious Diseases
    * Emergency
    * Hematology
    * Medical Oncology
    * 8 weeks combined surgical rotation in Otolaryngology, Urology, Neurosurgery and Pathology.
    * 2 weeks Diagnostic Imaging and 2 weeks Geriatrics
  * Upon completion of the off-service blocks, residents will be scheduled for Radiation Oncology block rotations. 
    * It is expected that not all residents will be ready to move to “Core” at the time the off-service rotations are completed. Therefore, some EPAs may be completed for “Foundations” after transition to the Radiation Oncology service. 
    * The first several months of Radiation Oncology will be designed to provide an “introductory” experience in Radiation Oncology. It is expected that this “introductory” period will overlap between Foundations and Core, and that the resident will likely progress to Core at some point during this period.  
      * We have implemented an "On treatment Management, Simulation and Contouring (OMSC)" rotation which has been very successful at transitioning residents to full time work in Radiation Oncology. 
      * Anatomical Pathology exposure is integrated as part of the academic half day lecture sessions, in addition to being included in the combined surgical rotation block in the Transition to Discipline stage of training.
    * Additional off-service blocks may be scheduled as required to meet the “Foundations” EPAs.

Core of Discipline (2.5-3.5 years)

  * Comprised primarily of rotations working with a faculty Radiation Oncologist: 
    * Each Radiation Oncologist covers approximately three tumors sites, and residents will have the opportunity to rotate through each site multiple times throughout residency.
    * As the resident progresses through training, they are given input into the site-specific experiences they feel will be of most benefit.
    * Residents are provided with increasing responsibility with respect to patient care and treatment planning as they progress.
    * Rotations are typically scheduled with a preceptor two blocks at a time.
  * Outpatient clinics in the Nova Scotia Cancer Centre comprise the bulk of the clinical experiences; there are also opportunities to be involved in radiotherapy simulation and planning, treatment review, quality assurance, and inpatient care.
  * Residents are provided opportunities to gain managerial and leadership experience by joining departmental quality assurance and operational committees as well as the residency program committee.
  * Opportunities are provided for residents to teach junior residents, off-service residents, and elective medical students.
  * Time is protected to allow participation in prostate and gynecological brachytherapy.
  * Resident longitudinal clinic (RLC): 
    * Residents begin participating in the RLC midway through the PGY3 year, taking a break for exams and away rotations. 
    * This clinic allows the resident to have direct responsibility for all aspects of patient management, from diagnosis to follow up.
  * Residents complete rotations in Saint John, New Brunswick, and possibly other regional sites. 
    * This fulfills the Royal College requirement for completion of a community rotation.
    * The timing of these experiences is partially flexible.
    * Due to recent requirements of the provincial government for residents to perform rotations outside of Halifax, the amount of time residents spend outside of Halifax is subject to change.  We intend to structure these experiences in such a way to ensure the resident is well supported personally and academically during this experience.  Previous residents have found rotations in Saint John to be particularly valuable.
  * One block of treatment planning is provided.
  * Four blocks of elective time are provided. 
    * Residents are encouraged to consider electives in areas of special interest and with career planning in mind. Some examples could include electives in Medical Education and Leadership offered by Dalhousie medical education, tumor sites, stereotactic radiotherapy, community experiences, research (at the discretion of the program), and brachytherapy.
  * One block rotation is completed in Quality Improvement and Patient Safety.
  * Protected time is made available for research/scholarly activity. 
    * Residents must complete at least one project such that it is published or presented at a national or international meeting.
    * Additional protected time for research may be granted to residents with a suitable project who require additional time if they are progressing satisfactorily in their clinical work and if they have made good use of time which has already been provided.
  * Residents write a formal in-training exam annually PGY 2-5 which is created by the national program directors' group.

Transition to Practice (6 months)

  * The purpose of this stage is to assist the resident with transition to autonomous practice.
  * This stage includes a mix of patient care experiences (with increased independence), practice management, and academic experiences (including teaching and mentorship of junior trainees).
  * Residents will have substantial input into how their individual Transition to Practice experience is designed; non-clinical time will be tailored to the resident’s career goals.
  * It is expected that the resident will have completed a research/scholarly project by the end of Transition to Practice (as outlined above in “Core”).
  * Residents in this stage will be expected to complete a clinical or administrative project.



**Scholarly project**

Residents must complete at least one research project with a goal of
publishing in a peer-reviewed journal and/or presenting at a national or
international conference.  The departmental research director works with the
resident during the second year to help with selecting a project and
supervisor.

Residents are required to present their research project(s) at the annual
oncology research day.

Protected time for research is provided throughout training.  Residents are
encouraged to pursue additional research opportunities as time allows and if
there is a suitable project (at the discretion of the program).  Additional
opportunities to attend conferences may be available if the resident has an
abstract accepted.

Both the NSCC and Saint John Regional Hospital participate in national and
international clinical trials.  There are also unique opportunities to be
involved with basic science projects through investigators at Dalhousie
University, and to be involved with Medical Physics research.  Dalhousie
University has a very active program for Medical Physics graduate students and
residents, and there are opportunities for collaboration.

Past residents have completed interesting projects in a wide variety of areas:
basic sciences, medical physics, clinical oncology, surgical oncology, medical
education, and psychosocial oncology (to name a few).  We recognize that
scholarly activity can come in many forms, and we encourage residents to be
creative in designing projects and to follow their interests.

There is a Clinician Investigator Program available through Dalhousie
University.  Interested residents are encouraged to apply.  Our program does
not make decisions about acceptance to the CIP program or funding.

**Academic Curriculum**

Academic Half Days occur on Friday afternoons. These sessions start with the
clinical oncology lecture series and treatment planning tutorials followed by
physics and radiobiology seminars for PGY1-PGY3 residents.

We are also developing a "simulation or case-based education" curriculum to
augment our academic half day schedule. This will provide further exposure to
management of rare tumor sites, less common radiotherapy treatment techniques
and radiotherapy planning decision making.

The Clinical Oncology series is periodically reviewed and updated to provide
teaching and reflective discussion around the intrinsic CanMEDS roles
(collaborator, communicator, scholar, health advocate, leader, professional).
Topics include career planning and medical education.  Residents are also
required to complete selected online CanMEDS courses organized by the
Postgraduate medical education office.  

Participation in the weekly Academic Half Day is mandatory, and time is
protected in all years to allow attendance.  Microsoft Teams Meeting links are
available as required for residents completing rotations outside of Halifax.

Resident Rounds, Journal Club and Resident Presentations occur on Thursdays.
Resident Rounds are mainly practice oral examination sessions aimed to prepare
the residents for the Royal College exams in their senior year of training.
Participation in Resident Rounds is mandatory for PGY2-5 residents, and time
is protected to allow attendance.   Emphasis is placed on developing critical
appraisal skills during the journal club.  Additional teaching sessions (1:1
with resident and supervising Radiation Oncologist) occur regularly throughout
each rotation.

Several optional courses and teaching opportunities are available through
Dalhousie University, including an online course about medical leadership and
research methodology courses.  There is a mandatory “Residents as Teachers”
course offered by Dalhousie.

* * *

# Training Sites

The Residency Program runs across two provinces:



**Halifax, NS**

Nova Scotia Cancer Centre (NSCC)

Queen Elizabeth II (QEII) Health Sciences Centre

Nova Scotia Health (NSH)



Izaak Walton Killam-Grace (IWK) Health Centre

               



**Saint John, NB**

Atlantic Health Sciences Cancer Centre

Saint John Regional Hospital (SJRH)

Horizon Health Network





Halifax, Nova Scotia

Halifax is a city of about 465,000 people, with all of the amenities of a
larger city and growing quickly with 5 straight years of record population
growth.  It is the largest city in Atlantic Canada, and home to a lively
downtown core with many fine restaurants, theatre, and art galleries.  The
Nova Scotia Cancer Centre is in downtown Halifax, next to Dalhousie
University, and many residents live within walking distance of work.

There are excellent outdoor recreational opportunities within and immediately
around Halifax, including sailing, hiking, kayaking, canoeing and camping.
Dalhousie University offers a wide range of cultural activities, state of the
art athletic facilities and many club sporting activities, as well as
intercollegiate athletics.



**Nova Scotia Cancer Centre**

The Nova Scotia Cancer Centre (NSCC) in Halifax provides comprehensive cancer
care for all of mainland Nova Scotia. Over 3,000 new cancer patients are seen
per year.

Equipment available for the planning and treatment of patients includes:

  * Seven Varian linear accelerators, including Varian IX and Truebeam Linacs
  * Brachytherapy programs including gynecologic (interstitial and intracavitary), prostate  and skin HDR brachytherapy 
    * Dedicated shielded operating room and recovery room used specifically for brachytherapy
    * Residents have time protected to participate in brachytherapy procedures
  * Varian Ethos unit equipped with HyperSight advanced imaging system for adaptive radiotherapy and planning. 2-3 new machines are scheduled to be in place by the end of 2025.  
  * Brainlab ExacTrac 6 degrees of freedom treatment couch
  * One CT simulator, 2nd one to be installed in 2025 
  * One orthovoltage/superficial unit
  * 3D treatment planning system (Eclipse)
  * Stereoscopic Exactrac imaging system
  * Stereotactic radiotherapy for intracranial, bone, lung, spine, upper abdomen and soft tissue
  * Widespread use of volumetric modulated arc therapy (VMAT) as treatment for most patients treated curatively or adjuvantly
  * IGRT including cone beam CT imaging capability
  * Planning PET and MRI capabilities
  * Very active clinical and research programs in Medical Physics
  * Inpatient unit of approximately 3 beds, managed by a full time Associate Physician 
    * Residents are involved with managing the inpatients of their assigned staff Radiation Oncologist, and provide inpatient coverage while on call

**Saint John Regional Hospital**

The Saint John Regional Hospital is the largest tertiary care hospital in New
Brunswick.  The Oncology Department in Saint John sees approximately 1500 new
cancer patients per year.  Oncology patients are also seen in Fredericton and
Moncton, and care is provided in outreach clinics throughout the province.

Equipment available for the planning and treatment of patients includes:

  * 3 Varian Linear Accelerators - TrueBeams and an Edge.
  * Gyne, Prostate and Skin HDR brachytherapy using a Cobalt-60 source.
  * Insertion of vesicoil fiducials into prostates for image guided external beam radiation therapy to the prostate in select patients.
  * SpaceOAR hydrogrel insertion for prostate external beam radiotherapy in select patients.
  * Two simulators –GE CT with 4D CT and a new GE CT (MRI compatible) simulator with deviceless 4D CT.
  * 3D and 4D treatment planning system using Eclipse
  * Brainlab Stereotactic Radiosurgery/Radiotherapy System
  * Velocity software for rigid and deformable image registration. 
  * Brainlab frameless Stereotactic Radiosurgery/Radiotherapy System.
  * Conventional, IMRT,VMAT, DIBH, cranial SRS/SRT and SBRT techniques (bone, spine, lung, abdomen, prostate).
  * Electrons for some skin treatments.
  * IGRT including cone beam CT imaging and fiducial markers.



_NOTE: All residency programs are required to have 10% of their residency
training outside of Halifax Regional Municipality as stipulated in the most
recent Academic Funding Plan set out by the Department of Health and Wellness.
Please be aware that if matched to Halifax, as part of your training you may
be expected to complete rotations outside central zone but within the maritime
provinces._

* * *

# Additional Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

In accordance with Dalhousie PGME policy, we have a program-specific policy
outlining the "essential skills and abilities" required to participate in
residency training in Radiation Oncology and appropriate steps to follow if
accommodations are necessary.  Radiation Oncology residents must have
appropriate motor and visual skills to participate in clinical encounters,
radiotherapy planning, and brachytherapy.  Some skills can be achieved with
reasonable accommodation granted pursuant to and in accordance with Dalhousie
policies.  It is also necessary that residents display appropriate
professional behaviours and take responsibility for themselves and their
behaviours.

* * *

# FAQ

What are the strengths of your program?

There is excellent access to technology, clinical experiences, and research
opportunities.  Our small size allows us to individualize training to each
resident’s needs and career goals. We offer protected time to participate in
brachytherapy procedures, scholarly activity, and a resident longitudinal
clinic, which allows greater independence in decision making for senior
residents.  The program staff are friendly and responsive to resident needs.

We have implemented a number of successful  initiatives which have
strengthened the resident experience, including the "On Treatment, Management,
Simulation and Contouring (OMSC)" rotation, "Intro to RO curriculum" in
Transition to Discipline stage of training.  There is a rotation in quality
improvement/patient safety, and we have improved the curriculum to better
integrate basic sciences and the “intrinsic” CanMEDS roles.

We have a collegial group of residents who are fully involved in teaching and
program improvement.  Many program improvements have been driven at least in
part by residents who have identified areas for improvement and have taken the
opportunity to design these new initiatives. We have published and presented
much of the work we have done in medical education at conferences and in peer-
reviewed journals.



Do your residents get adequate exposure to clinical oncology?

The QEII Health Sciences Centre (of which the NSCC is a part) is the tertiary
and quaternary referral centre for Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and Prince
Edward Island.  Residents are exposed to all tumor sites and technical aspects
of clinical oncology, including pediatrics, stereotactic radiotherapy, and
brachytherapy.  The experiences in Saint John provide excellent community
exposure.  Our residents leave the program very well prepared for clinical
practice.



What support is available for conferences?

Residents are funded to attend the Atlantic Oncology Conference annually and
the CARO or ASTRO Scientific Meeting in their fifth year of training.
Additional opportunities to attend conferences may be available if a resident
is presenting scholarly work.  Residents are also funded to attend the
national preparatory course for the Royal College examination (senior years)
and the Toronto radiobiology course.  The specifics as to what conferences are
funded at what times may change as available funds and travel restrictions
allow.



What is the on-call experience like?

Residents on call cover the inpatient unit which is attached to the NSCC.  The
quota is 3 beds.  Residents are also responsible for seeing consultations in
the emergency department (which are infrequent) and dealing with outside calls
from other physicians and from patients.  Call is done from home, and usually
is not busy (though there are exceptions).  For off-service rotations, on-call
experiences differ depending on the nature of the rotation.  Residents will
not be scheduled to be on-call in the months leading up to the written Royal
College exams.



What is the rotation in Saint John like?

The Saint John rotation allows the resident to develop independence and become
exposed to different treatment and teaching styles outside of the main centre.
Saint John is home to the New Brunswick Campus of Dalhousie Medical School,
and the cancer centre has access to a high level of modern technology.  The
Saint John centre is home to effective and enthusiastic teachers who tailor
the rotation to the goals and interests of the resident.  Dalhousie University
provides housing for residents within walking distance of the hospital.  Saint
John is close to Fundy National Park and a number of other parks and beaches.
It is a historic city with a variety of restaurants and activties.



What is your mentorship program all about?

This has been designed to provide residents with greater support for career
planning, dealing with issues around work/life balance, and assists with
academic progress over the course of residency.  Residents select a faculty
mentor early in training, and the intention is that they meet frequently with
the mentor to discuss any topics of interest.  There are opportunities to
rotate between mentors periodically.  Residents would still be encouraged to
seek informal mentorship outside of the formal program.



What research experiences are available?

The program assists with pairing a resident with an appropriate preceptor and
project.  There is a two-block  combined clinical and research rotation
working with the research director, at the start of the second year.
Residents are encouraged to have a project selected and preparatory work
started during this rotation.   There are active research and graduate student
programs in the Department of Medical Physics, and this provides unique
opportunities for collaboration.  Completion of one project is mandatory, and
if time allows, residents are encouraged to take on other projects.  There is
a Clinician Investigator Program (CIP) available through Dalhousie University,
whereby research opportunities can be blended into training in a formalized
way.  Though participation in CIP would be encouraged, the Radiation Oncology
training program does not manage admissions to CIP or provide financial
support.

We recognize that scholarly activity can come in many forms.  Residents may be
interested in taking on scholarly projects in areas which are not
traditionally considered as “research”.  For example, residents in the past
have participated in unique projects in medical education and quality
assurance. We will work with you to help you find topics which are of interest
to you.



How are residents promoted?

In the CBD format, residents maintain an electronic portfolio documenting
successful completion of Entrustable Professional Activities (EPAs).  The EPAs
will be completed by supervising faculty based on direct and indirect
observation.  The program has a Competence Committee which ultimately makes
decisions on resident promotion once the resident has successfully
demonstrated completion of the required EPAs for each stage.



How are residents prepared for the Royal College exam?

Our small program size allows to individualize exam preparation based on the
resident’s learning style and needs.  A series of oral and written exams are
scheduled throughout training, and as the resident approaches exams, they are
provided with opportunities to complete exam sessions one on one with faculty.
The resident’s mentor plays a major role in helping the resident prepare for
exams.  Residents are also funded to attend the national exam prep course in
their final year.



What types of practice do your residents enter after graduating?

While many of our graduates are working in Atlantic Canada, we have trained
Radiation Oncologists who are now working in all parts of the country and
abroad.  Our graduates are well prepared clinically and are working in all
types of roles--practices with a focus on research, education, and clinical
work. Our small program size allows us to foster individual resident
interests. In recent years many residents have completed fellowships to make
themselves more competitive for the job market, and our residents have been
very successful in securing fellowships of their choosing.  We have also had
residents go directly into Radiation Oncologist jobs out of residency.



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26752?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26752