#  McMaster University - Medical Microbiology - Hamilton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Brody Duncan  

Address Department of Pathology & Molecular Medicine  
Laboratory Medicine - Medical Microbiology  
McMaster University  
Hamilton, ON L8N 3Z5, Ontario  

Websites of Interest [ Medical Microbiology Program
](https://pathologymolecularmedicine.healthsci.mcmaster.ca/education/laboratory-
medicine-clinical-postgraduate-training-programs/residency-programs/medical-
microbiology/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Toranie Bissondyal

Title: Senior Education Program Associate

Email: bissondt@mcmaster.ca

Phone: 289-921-9391

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/).  It is important to review the
requirements carefully.

[CaRMS - Medical Microbiology](https://pathres.mcmaster.ca/ "CaRMS - Medical
Microbiology")

Special Note:  For those applicants who have been selected for an interview,
you will be notified that you have been selected. The Program will notify all
applicants through CaRMS online and an email will be sent directly from the
program coordinator to those selected for an interview with details about time
and location of interview.  Please do not contact the program office
requesting interview time and location information

To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit:
<https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/>

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three reference letters are required and only three will be reviewed.
Reference letters must be submitted by CaRMS document deadline.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Your application will not be considered without a Personal Letter. Must be
submitted by CaRMS document deadline.

Custom Résumé / CV

Due by document deadline

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applications, files, late paperwork etc., submitted past CaRMS document
deadline will _**not**_ be reviewed, or considered.  
  
Applications missing a Personal Letter risk not being reviewed or considered.

Reference letters from the institution/ discipline will not be required for
consideration of interview

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 24, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held virtually on
Friday, January 24, 2025.  
  
A second interview date may be considered if there are applicants with major
scheduling conflicts on the primary interview day.  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process:

  * Interviews will be conducted virtually.
  * Candidates are interviewed by three to five Microbiology faculty members and senior residents, and will have the opportunity to meet with current residents in the program.

* * *

# Selection Criteria

\- Good academic standing

\- Broad-based science background

\- Genuine interest in Laboratory Medicine - specifically Medical Microbiology

\- Genuine interest in the study of Infectious Diseases

## Program goals

The primary mission of the Medical Microbiology Residency Program is to train
residents by fostering excellence and nurturing resident well being, while
attaining the knowledge, skills and attitudes to become successful clinicians
and laboratory physicians.  Through strong leadership and mentorship,
residents who have completed the program will have attained the broad based,
diverse and competitive skill set that is fundamental to a well rounded career
as a Medical Microbiologist.

## Selection process goals

The successful applicant to the Medical Microbiology Residency Program has an
inquisitive nature, is dedicated to life long learning, and has  a genuine
desire to learn.  Strong problem solving skills, and the ability to
effectively evaluate and critically appraise evidence based literature are
essential attributes that will serve the applicant well throughout their
training.  The successful applicant is a team player, who exemplifies
professionalism and collegiality.

## File review process

Review team composition : Program Director and an additional Medical
Microbiology faculty member.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
1st iteration usually between 2-10  
2nd iteration 50-100

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Interests, awards, education history   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Candidates must demonstrate that they have clinical experience to ensure they are making an informed decision about entering Medical Microbiology.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  we do not evaluate this file component   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  leadership interests, leadership experience   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Good standing   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Genuine interest in Medical Microbiology, good understanding of the role of a Medical Microbiologist   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Source of reference letter, interest in program, interpersonal skills   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Some research experience,presentations or abstracts in domain of Infectious Diseases/microbiology   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Strong academic record, official transcript comments, exam scores, clinical rotation comments   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Previous projects or initiatives required a collaborative approach   
Collegiality |  Sincerity, enthusiasm for the discipline   
Communication skills |  Clear, concise, thoughtful answers to interview questions.   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrated understanding of the importance of health advocacy.   
Interest in the discipline |  Genuine knowledge of Med Micro, what the discipline entails & the role of the Medical Microbiologist   
Interest in the program |  Knowledge about how the McMaster Medical Microbiology Program is structured and how it is unique   
Leadership skills |  Leadership experience in past, ideas for pursuing   
Professionalism |  Answers questions appropriately, professional demeanor   
Scholarly activities |  Interest in scholarly activities including research, demonstration of ideas for future projects   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  Lack of genuine interest in Medical Microbiology  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

There is ample elective opportunity to explore options within the diverse
field of Medical Microbiology. Along with core laboratory training within the
different microbiology discipline areas, clinical training in Infectious
Diseases is integrated throughout the five-year training period, therefore
developing both the clinical and laboratory skills and knowledge that are
critical to the practice of Medical Microbiology. There are ample
opportunities for research and residents are encouraged to participate in
projects throughout their training. A successful mentorship program is in
place to help guide and nurture residents during their time in the program and
throughout the resident career planning phase. Structured, protected academic
teaching is built into the curriculum and residents are encouraged to seek out
learning opportunities that fit their individual goals.

Residents will carry out research in association with the faculty, which will
also allow for more formal research training. The MM faculty has very strong
research roots and all residents publish or present research before the
completion of their training. Residents also demonstrate self-directed
problem-based learning during weekly ID Academic PBL Half-days.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Candidates for Medical Microbiology complete various basic clinical training
rotations during their PGY1 year. This includes a combination of rotations
through bacteriology, virology, internal medicine, pediatrics, critical care,
emergency medicine and infectious diseases.

During the remaining 4 years, residents will participate in infectious
diseases service rotations, bacteriology, virology, mycology,
mycobacteriology, molecular microbiology, infection control, antimicrobial
stewardship, laboratory management, public health microbiology, and Quality
Assurance and research projects. Graduated responsibility has been built into
these rotations and there are graduated expectations for call in both
Infectious Diseases and Microbiology.

Five-Year Program Schedule:

PGY 1: This year consists of the transition to the discipline of medical
microbiology, as well as foundational rotations in core clinical services
including infectious diseases:

  * 3 blocks Medical Microbiology
  * 4 blocks General Internal Medicine
  * 2 blocks ICU
  * 1 block Emergency Medicine
  * 1 block General Pediatrics
  * 2 blocks Infectious Diseases

PGY 2-4: The PGY 2-5 years are made up of a blend of clinical Infectious
Diseases and core microbiology including training in Public Health
laboratories, community laboratories, Infection Control, and Antimicrobial
Stewardship. Graded responsibility is incorporated into the training
expectations and on-call responsibilities for each year of training. Time for
external electives is protected for residents to pursue personalized training,
research, or career goals.

PGY 5: The final year of training is planned to provide further experience in
microbiology and the trainee accepts a greater level of responsibility,
including Junior Attending blocks in microbiology and infectious diseases.
Each resident will get an opportunity to act as the Chief Resident for the
training program with added responsibilities such as generating the
microbiology call schedule and planning/coordinating the Medical Microbiology
Academic Half-day. Preparation for the Royal College examination is supported.

Education is a primary focus of the program, with protected time for numerous
educational activities. These include:



  * ID Academic Half-day – a 1.5-hour case-based session focused on covering a core topic in Infectious Diseases.
  * MM Academic Halfday – a 1-hour session that follows the ID half-day and covers a range of laboratory and CanMEDs topics in an interactive lecture format.
  * Microbiology Plate Rounds follow the Academic Half-days and review a laboratory topic at the bench level.
  * Regional Infectious Diseases Rounds are held weekly and are attended by all residents and faculty. Residents are expected to present at ID rounds 2-3 times per year and are provided with useful feedback from these presentations.
  * Teleconferences are arranged by the Program Director to cover a range of Microbiology topics.
  * Annual practice written exams and OSCEs in the format of the Royal College.
  * Support to attend academic conferences such as AMMI-CACMID.

Residents are required to design and carry out a series of research projects.
They are well supported in this task by the research coordinator for the
program. The Medical Microbiology Program faculty has a strong breadth and
depth of research experience and are well equipped to mentor residents with
their research projects. All residents will complete at least two abstracts or
presentations, but most publish at least one peer-reviewed scientific paper by
the end of their training (and often more).

Residents with an interest in medical education can be provided with
opportunities to teach and develop curriculum at the undergraduate, medical
school, and post-graduate levels. Supervision of medical students and junior
residents on regular rotations is expected and encouraged as part of
Transition to Practice for senior residents.

Residents with specific learning objectives can be accommodated in the
program. For example, residents have pursued concurrent graduate-level
training in the Clinician-Investigator Program (CIP), the professional diploma
at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, or research electives in
collaboration with other academic centres.

* * *

# Training Sites



McMaster University postgraduate programs are integrated in cooperation with
the affiliated teaching hospitals St. Joseph's and Hamilton Health Science.
The regionalized laboratory services in Hamilton, one of the first in Canada,
provide cost-effective patient care and coordinate residency training in an
organized yet flexible manner, tailored to individual needs, interests and
career goals. The Hamilton General Hospital is the primary site for
bacteriology and mycology, and St Joseph's Hospital - Charlton Campus is the
primary site for virology and molecular microbiology. Community laboratory
rotations are supported by LifeLabs, and reference mycobacteriology and
parasitology services are provided by Public Health Ontario.

Computers with internet access, dedicated to residents, are available at all
hospital sites for literature and medical record search. The Health Science
Library of McMaster University gives online access to most medical journals
and relevant textbooks from any work or personal computer.

* * *

# Additional Information

Quick Facts

Our Lab Medicine program has over 200 faculty members and many more non-
faculty technical teaching staff. This program has been centralized since
1970, with further restructuring in the past 2-3 years.

Financial support to attend conferences at which the resident is presenting a
poster or paper is available. Additional support to attend conferences the
resident is not presenting at, is also available, including a yearly CME event
held in one of the major Ontario centers.

There is no financial support in addition to the normal salary of the
resident.

* * *

# FAQ

**_Will the Program contact me?  
_**  
The Program will e-mail selected candidates to schedule an interview in
Hamilton, ON.  
  
The Program will not contact you unless you've been selected to interview.  As
a courtesy, The Program may send a generalized e-mail to all candidates,
selected or not, notify that interviews are scheduled, and the selection
process is complete.  At that point, please do not anticipate receiving an
invitation to interview.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26428?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26428