#  University of British Columbia - Neurology - Vancouver  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 20, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 5

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Samuel Yip  

Address Neurology  
8219-2775 Laurel Street  
8/F Gordon & Leslie Diamond Health Care Centre  
Vancouver, British Columbia, V5Z 1M9  

Work  (604) 875-5198

Fax

Websites of Interest

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: UBC Neurology Residency Program

Title: Program Administration

Email: neuro.residency@ubc.ca

  
  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

  

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  600

  

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

Copy of certificate

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Files are reviewed by members of the Residency Program Committee. Decision
will be made regarding candidates to be interviewed.

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: TBA  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: There will be a preliminary screening
of applications for the granting of interviews. Interviews will consist of
four 15-minute interviews conducted by members of our Residency Program
Committee.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Selection is made through an interview process with our Residency Program
committee. While marks are considered, previous accomplishments, character and
interpersonal skills are very important.

## Program goals

Our residents will demonstrate exceptional interpersonal skills, clinical
skills and academic excellence as demonstrated through clinical care,
teaching, research and/or quality assurance/health advocacy initiatives.  They
will be active members of the community, witnessed through their volunteer
and/or extracurricular activities.  They will demonstrate the ability to
collaborate with peers, supervisors, and allied health colleagues.

## Selection process goals

Identify applicants who have demonstrated an interest in clinical neurology
and the aptitude to develop into exceptional clinical neurologists.

Identify applicants who demonstrate the ability to interact appropriately with
colleagues and patients.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated the ability and enthusiasm to learn
and who are able to adapt to the demands of residency training.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated aptitudes consistent with the
CanMEDS 2015 roles.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team consists of the members of our
Residency Program Committee. This includes the program director, associate
program director, two resident representatives, and faculty members from our
various training sites.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We evaluate the content including electives, academic activities and extracurricular activities.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Clinical aptitude, particularly in neurology, and interpersonal skills.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Involvement in the community through paid and/or volunteer work.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Ability to take initiative in appropriate settings.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Professionalism, clinical aptitude, and interpersonal skills in all areas, not restricted to neurology.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstrate interest in neurology.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Clinical acumen, particularly in neurology, professionalism, and interpersonal skills.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Demonstrate interest in research and/or other scholarly pursuits.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high quality patient care through working in a team environment.   
Collegiality |  Ability to work well with others.   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak, write, and communicate in English, be articulate.   
Health advocacy |  N/A   
Interest in the discipline |  Enthusiasm for clinical neurology.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrate interest in the UBC program and living in Vancouver.   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrate ability to take initiative in appropriate settings.   
Professionalism |  Presentation of self during the interview and interaction with others through the interview process.   
Scholarly activities |  Demonstrate interest in research and/or other scholarly pursuits.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Throughout all rotations, residents see a large breadth of pathology from all
over BC and the Yukon.

Opportunity to participate in outreach clinics in under serviced areas in
PGY4/5 years (Haida Gwaii, Whitehorse, Kitimat, etc.)

Opportunity to get involved in medical student teaching, including second year
neuroanatomy course and the medical student neurology clinical skills course.

Active neuroethics program and neuroethics movie nights designed to stimulate
discussion around ethical issues in clinical neurology.

Brain Research Centre with extensive clinical and basic science research
ongoing in many subspecialties of neurology.

Very supportive neurology faculty, with varied clinical and research
interests, keen to work with residents.

Annual resident retreat weekend at Whistler to build camaraderie between staff
and residents and between different neuroscience specialties (pediatrics,
neurosurgery, and neurology).

Strong support in our residency program to foster individual resident
interests and aptitudes and to create opportunities for residents to pursue
these, whether residents are focused on an academic track (clinician-
scientist, clinician-teacher) or in practicing general neurology in the
community.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The adult neurology residency training program at UBC is a 5-year postgraduate
program after medical school graduation.



**Competency by Design (CBD)**

Starting in July 2020, the curriculum has transitioned to the Competency by
Design (CBD) curriculum.

The CBD curriculum is divided into four sections: Transition to Discipline,
Foundations, Core, and Transition to Practice.

Residents begin their PGY1 year with "Transition to Discipline", which
includes one block each of inpatient neurology and CTU.

This is followed by "Foundations", during which residents will develop
clinical knowledge in a variety of specialties, including CTU and internal
medicine subspecialties (e.g. hematology, rheumatology, infectious diseases,
cardiology, geriatrics etc.), emergency medicine, psychiatry, ICU, and
neurosurgery. In Foundations, resident education is largely built around
inpatient rotations and developing clinical skills relevant to neurological
practice.

"Foundations" is followed by "Core" rotations, during which residents will
solidify knowledge and expertise in general and subspecialty areas of
neurology.  Rotations are arranged in inpatient neurology, ambulatory clinics
(multiple sclerosis/neuroinflammatory, movement disorders, dementia,
neurogenetics, rapid access neurology clinic, etc.), neuromuscular/EMG,
epilepsy/EEG, and pediatric neurology. The Royal College written examination
will be scheduled for the end of "Core" (corresponding to the end of PGY4).

In the final PGY5 year, residents complete "Transition to Practice".  Emphasis
is placed on their role as a junior attending on inpatient rotations and
customizing their rotation schedule according to individual career goals. The
Royal College OSCE applied examination will be scheduled for the end of
"Transition to Practice" (corresponding to the end of PGY5).

Longitudinal clinic experience begins in PGY3, when residents become seniors,
and continues until the end of PGY5. Residents also have opportunities to be
involved in various research projects throughout the course of their training.

More information on Competence By Design (CBD) can be found on the Royal
College website.



**Residents at Work**

As a junior resident, most of your rotations will be off-service, but you will
still be a core member of our residency family! Junior residents do six blocks
of inpatient neurology as part of their training, in addition to a block of
community neurology. Junior residents attend Neurology Academic Half Day even
in PGY1, as well as Neuroscience Grand Rounds when the rotation schedule
allows it.

As a senior resident, you begin the transition to independent practice, with
more exposure to a variety of neurology subspecialties. We are fortunate in
Vancouver to have access to world-renowned attendings in (almost) all
subspecialties, who are all very eager to teach our residents. Senior
residents will also be more responsible for teaching junior residents and
medical students during time on service.

**Research**

There are research opportunities in all areas. However, most frequently
utilized areas are stroke, multiple sclerosis, movement disorders,
neurodegenerative diseases, epilepsy, neuromuscular diseases, and
neuroophthalmology/visual cognition. Residents are expected to carry out a
scholarly project during their training time.

  
  

**Seminars**

Thursday afternoons, from 1300-1700, are our Neurology Academic Half Day
(AHD), which is protected academic time.

This period consists of three to four 45-minute lectures addressing clinical
and basic science topics in neurology, followed by an hour of case
presentations.

Wednesday mornings, from 0800-1000, are our Neuroscience Grand Rounds.

There are weekly noon-hour cerebrovascular academic rounds, clinical stroke
rounds, neuroophthalmology rounds, and neuromuscular rounds.

There is a quarterly resident journal club, and optional evening neuroethics
seminars.

During the 3-month ambulatory rotation, consisting of clinics mostly out at
the UBC Point Grey campus, residents are encouraged to take advantage of the
many seminars that take place at the Djavad Mowafaghian Centre for Brain
Health.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

Vancouver Hospital (VH) has 10-15 general neurology beds, 10 acute stroke beds
and 15 sub-acute stroke beds.  There is an active consultation service and
emergency room services. On average there are approximately 1000 emergency
referrals per year, and a similar number of consultations off service.
Clinical material is large and outstanding. This hospital is supported by a
high volume neurosurgical service, neuroradiology, neuro-ophthalmology,
epilepsy, neuromuscular services, neuro-oncology and headache specialist.
There is a Stroke Service and General Neurology/Consult Service at VGH.

UBC Hospital. There is an active multiple sclerosis clinic with 5000 patients
registered; a well known movement disorder clinic, neurodegenerative service
and Alzheimer clinic and neurogenetic clinic. Much of the research is carried
out at this site. This is an ambulatory rotation only.

St. Paul's Hospital has a busy neurology consultation service.

BC Children's Hospital has a large academic pediatric neurology service
complete with support staff. Strengths are in epilepsy, neuromuscular disease
and neonatology. Residents rotate through the ward and consultation service.

BC Cancer Agency - Neuro-oncology outpatient clinic.

Community Rotations include options to go to Victoria, Kamloops, Prince
George, New Westminster, North Vancouver, Surrey, Richmond, Burnaby and
Kelowna.

* * *

# Additional Information

Quick Facts

-There are opportunities for interprovincial and international electives while training in our program

-Community rotations are part of the curriculum

-The ratio of residents to faculty is ~1:2

-There is access to electronic medical resources

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26315?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26315