#  McGill University - Dermatology - Montreal

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Regular Stream for All  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Therese El-Helou  

Address Medicine - Division of Dermatology  
Montreal General Hospital  
1650 Cedar Ave, D6 253  
Montreal, Quebec, H3G 1A4  

Work  514-934-1934 ext. 43063

Cell

Websites of Interest

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: Division of Dermatology

Name: Melissa Puliga

Title: Program Administrator

Email: residency.dermatology@mcgill.ca

Phone: 514-934-1934 ext. 43063

  

* * *

# Important Information

Accepted candidates are expected to learn and achieve a working knowledge of
medical terminology in French during their 5-year training. The Residency
Program Committee reserves the right to require that resident physicians that
are not capable of verbally communicating medical information in French take
evening courses on 'French for Healthcare Professionals' in parallel with
their clinical training.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP must be submitted with each application.  
EITHER:

  * A copy of Canadian Birth Certificate or a copy of Certificate of Canadian Citizenship

OR

  * A copy of Permanent Resident Card (copy of both sides of the card) OR a copy of an IMM 5292, IMM 1000, IMM 5688;   
NB: the Permanent Resident card can be expired.

OR

  * A copy of Citizenship Card (copy of both sides of the card)

P.S: the passport is not an acceptable proof of citizenship.

Each year, all candidates applying in a CaRMS match must provide proof of
valid current citizenship or permanent resident status. As of the 2021 R-1
match cycle, CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate
the citizenship/legal status verification, which is usually completed by
Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) offices.

if an applicant has had their citizenship/legal status documentation verified
by any of the following organizations for the current R-1 match, the applicant
will not be required to assign a proof of citizenship/PR document (as pictured
in the screenshot below).

  * Medical Council of Canada ([MCC](https://mcc.ca/))
  * British Columbia's Clinical Assessment Program ([BC-CAP](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/clinical-assessment/))
  * Bureau de cooperation interuniversitaire ([BCI](https://www.bci-qc.ca/en/))
  * Alberta International Medical Graduate Program ([AIMG](https://www.aimg.ca/))

For further information, please check the following link on CaRMS:
[https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-
citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-)

Examinations

Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the MCCQE Part I exam, please include the statement of
results and supplemental information report in your application.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the NAC exam, please include the statement of results and
supplemental information report in your application. The MCCQE Part II or
Certificate of Registration of the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada
(LMCC) is accepted in place of the NAC Examination.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

3 letters of reference

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

CV should include:

\- List of Honors and Awards

\- Publications and presentations **with particular relevance to dermatology
**and/or related specialties

\- A list of electives

\- Relevant meetings attended

- Involvement in committees and active community engagement

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

A focused letter of interest with **a strict maximum of 1000 words.** Longer
letters may not be read.

Content should include:

  * reasons and motivation to choose dermatology
  * personal attributes suitable for the profession
  * long term career plan
  * why McGill

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Note: Photos are only used for memory aid.

Conditionally required

Graduate Transcript (Master/PhD Degree)

You can provide your graduate transcript (Master/PhD Degree)

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

Additional required IMG documents

Lettre de reconnaissance de l'équivalence du diplôme MD

Please provide the results of the exams that permitted you to have your
medical degree recognized and approved by the CMQ.

Graduates with the diploma of doctor of osteopathy awarded by a school of
osteopathic medicine situated in the United States providing that the school
is accredited by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the
American Osteopathic Association do not have to obtain the recognition of the
equivalence of the medical diploma by the CMQ. These graduates do not require
the MCCQE Part I, the National Assessment Collaboration (NAC), or the
Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada (LMCC) in order to apply.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Files will be reviewed by the program's Selection Committee which includes the
program director, members of the Residency Program Committee, staff from the
teaching hospitals and 2-3 resident representatives.

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: Saturday, February 8, 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will be conducted by the
program's Selection Committee which includes the program director, members of
the Residency Program Committee, staff from the teaching hospitals and 2-3
resident representatives.  
  
The Program Administrator will contact selected candidates for the interview
date.  
  
The interview lasts approximately thirty minutes for each candidate.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

-**Superior academic record**

\- At least 1 elective in dermatology, which must be a minimum of 2 weeks to
be considered for file review

\- On-site **dermatology** **elective at McGill**  will be considered in the
file review process.

 -**Strong Reference Letters (3)** , Reference letters from practicing dermatologists or practicing physicians in related medical specialties. At least 1 letter must be written by a practicing dermatologist.

\- Personal Letter emphasizing a strong commitment to dermatology**(max. 1000
words).** Letter should illustrate personal experience and reasons to choose
dermatology, pesonal qualifications suitable for the profession, reasons to
train at McGill and long term career goals.

\- **Research projects** or **publications in dermatology or related medical
specialties**  are strongly recommended



## Program goals

_Our mission is to train compassionate physicians and competent dermatologists
to provide the best skin care possible to our population, and also to promote
research development to advance our understanding of skin diseases and to
discover better therapeutic strategies._

_To achieve this mission, our educational goals are:_

  * _to provide the residents with ample clinical exposure to as many skin pathologies as possible, within the context of outpatient clinics, consult service, on-call duties and case presentations at rounds and scientific meetings,_
  * _to provide regular supervised hands-on surgical experience to a variety of technical procedures performed by practicing dermatologists,_
  * _to encourage and promote research and scholarly activity opportunities to advance knowledge in our field,_
  * _to organize well-rounded didactic teaching activities provided by our trainees, teaching staff and invited national and international experts in various fields of dermatology,_
  * _to provide opportunities to develop all CanMEDS competencies other than Medical Expert through patient clinical encounters and interactions with all team members during training,_
  * _to offer opportunities to attend local to international conferences to broaden our trainees ' exposure to experts in our field,_
  * _to provide a safe, respectful and collegial learning environment for all trainees,_
  * _to offer proper guidance, mentorship and evaluation process which is fair and conducive to improve learning at all levels,_
  * _to organize in-training exams using the Royal College format to regularly evaluate progress and to adequately prepare our trainees for the final licensing exam._

## Selection process goals

_The following attributes are usually considered in the selection of
applicants:_

  * _well-rounded candidates who have demonstrated genuine passion and interest in our field, who have performed well academically (particularly in internal medicine and other subspecialties related to dermatology) and have shown excellent professionalism, communication and collaboration skills in their academic passage,_
  * _evidence of compassion, altruism, team work and advocacy for patient 's health and societal needs is considered strong asset,_
  * _interest in academic pursuit and research activity constitutes an important consideration in the selection,_
  * _evidence of manual dexterity and artistic or creative personality is a plus,_
  * _the ability to speak French is an asset_

## File review process

Review team composition : The selection committee consists of:  
-the Program Director  
-members of the Residency Program Committee  
-Representatives from our 4 main training sites (MGH, RVH, MCH and JGH)  
-two to three resident representatives  

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Well-rounded candidates. Languages spoken.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  In dermatology, especially at McGill. Evaluation and letter of reference from supervisors of those electives are important.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Not evaluated as this cohort of candidates has only gone through undergraduate medical studies and most have not taken any licensing exams.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Activities demonstrating team work, compassion, altruism, manual dexterity, artistic attributes, and/or a commitment to health equity.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Important but evaluator-dependent.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  General academic performance.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Genuine interest and motivation. Clear career goals. Personal attributes suitable for Dermatology. Why should we choose you.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Strong reference letters, at least one of which should be written by one of our dermatologist colleagues.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Projects related to dermatology have important consideration.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Document-dependent.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We prefer applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Although electives in other fields showing a broad range of interests are
important, there must be at least one elective in Dermatology (minimum
duration 2 weeks). Reference letters from Dermatology electives are important
in the selection process. Onsite elective at McGill will be considered in the
file review process.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Demonstration of excellent team work.   
Collegiality |  Evidence of cordial interactions during interview and in case scenario questions.   
Communication skills |  Ability to clearly express one’s ideas and opinions. Some knowledge of French is an asset that will be considered.   
Health advocacy |  Evaluated in some case scenario questions.   
Interest in the discipline |  Genuine demonstration of passion and interest in our field.   
Interest in the program |  Elective with us, knowledge of our program through earlier inquiry.   
Leadership skills |  Important attribute but not routinely assessed during interview.   
Professionalism |  Impeccable professional attitudes during interview and in case scenario questions.   
Scholarly activities |  Demonstration of life-long learning attitudes. Interest in academic and research pursuit.   
Other interview component(s) |  The interview this year (2024) will be online for all candidates. The candidates should have adequate electronic devices for this process to avoid any potential glitches. Another interview will not be granted if the technical problem is due to the candidate's equipment.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

We offer:

\- a strong academic curriculum including:

  * weekly academic half-days with presentations on a variety of topics, as well as journal clubs and patient rounds
  * biweekly morphology teaching sessions
  * biweekly dermatopathology teaching sessions
  * biweekly therapeutics teaching sessions

\- specialized clinics:

  * contact dermatitis
  * cutaneous lymphoma 
  * skin problems in transplant patients
  * hidradenitis suppurativa
  * hemangiomas in children
  * immunodermatology
  * combined rheumatology-dermatology clinics
  * genodermatoses (adults and children)
  * atopic dermatitis in adults
  * melanoma
  * non-melanoma skin cancers
  * MOHs surgery

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The dermatology program follows the general training requirements recommended
by the Royal College of Physicians of Canada.

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources:

  * Montreal General Hospital
  * Royal Victoria Hospital, Glen site
  * Jewish General Hospital
  * Montreal Children's Hospital, Glen site
  * Private offices of participating staff

* * *

# Additional Information

Quick Facts:

  * There are opportunities for interprovincial or international electives during the core training years.
  * Community Dermatology experience available but no rural rotations.
  * Access to electronic medical resources.
  * Mandatory research or scholarly activities from R2 year.

* * *

# FAQ

Q: Is research part of the curriculum?

A: Yes. The residents (R2 to R5) are expected to participate in research or
scholarly activities by designing their own projects with the help of staff or
to join any ongoing ones related to dermatology. Time is allocated for this if
the project is deemed substantial enough.



Q: How many CaRMS positions are there for the McGill program?

A: The number of positions is established by the PGME Office and is subject to
change on a yearly basis,  but on average, 2-4 positions per year.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26938?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26938