#  Western University - Plastic Surgery - London  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 03, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. John Stein  

Address Division of Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery  
St. Joseph's Health Centre  
268 Grosvenor Street, Room D0-209  
London, Ontario, N6A 4L6  

Work  (519) 646-6100 x65683

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Division of Plastic Surgery Website
](http://www.schulich.uwo.ca/plasticsurgery/)  
[ Graduate Education - MSc in Surgery
](https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/surgery/education/msc_in_surgery/future_students/index.html)  
[ Learn More About the Plastic Surgery Residency Program at Western
](https://youtu.be/HVxkM3bs5Kc)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Tanya DeLyzer

Title: Program Director

Email: tanya.delyzer@lhsc.on.ca

  

Name: Dr. Aaron Grant

Title: Assistant Program Director

Email: aaron.grant@lhsc.on.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

All applications are reviewed by all faculty and after a ranking process,
candidates are chosen for interviews. Staff from each of the three hospital
sites, along with two senior resident representatives, are part of the
Selection Committee.

Residency Training Program Start Date:

All programs at Western University will commence on July 1, 2024 with a one-
day orientation in London, Ontario (date to be determined). There are
additional mandatory orientations to Plastic Surgery (dates to be determined):

  * the Department of Surgery PGY1 Boot Camp (two week camp Monday-Friday)
  * the PGME Transition to Residency program (one half-day weekly for 8 weeks)

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided (by submitting one
of the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.
Failure to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.
No other forms of verification are acceptable.  

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of card must be provided and legible.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

We require three letters of reference from consultants who have worked with
the applicant. Letter from senior resident would not be a substitute for a
consultant's letter, but would be accepted as an additional reference.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

A personal letter of 750 words will be required explaining why an interest in
plastic surgery exists, why Western is your choice to train, future career
goals and outlining participation in extracurricular activities.

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

     

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 24, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: A short list of candidates is made based
upon CaRMS application documents after which candidates are invited to a one-
day virtual interview process which will occur on Friday, January 24, 2025.
All candidates, whether selected for interviews or not, will be notified by
email by Friday, January 10, 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Two sequential 15-minute interviews
will be held virtually on the Friday morning and early afternoon with 3
interviewers in each group. The Selection Committee consists of the Program
Director, Assistant Program Director, faculty from each hospital site, and two
senior residents.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

All candidates must demonstrate a strong academic performance to be considered
for an interview. The Western University Division of Plastic Surgery considers
applications from all Canadian medical schools equally. Interview selection is
based on curriculum vitae and other CaRMS application documents.

## Program goals

The objective of the Western University Plastic Surgery Residency Training
Program is to train outstanding clinicians who can provide a high level care
to patients throughout Canada. This is accomplished by following and
maintaining the educational standards that are outlined for plastic surgery
training programs by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.
Our goals are to offer a thorough clinical experience that includes all
subspecialty areas of plastic surgery, with an educational curriculum that is
supported by academic faculty that are recognized leaders in the Canadian and
international plastic surgery communities. We also strive to provide research
opportunities for our residents in order to foster a life-long interest in
academic pursuits and learning regardless of their eventual practice locale.
In addition, the program provides mentorship to aid our residents in attaining
their career goals after residency.

## Selection process goals

Selection process goals are as follows:

  1. Select candidates with an interest in plastic surgery as a lifetime career 

  2. Select candidates with an aptitude for plastic surgery

  3. Select candidates who are professional and are team players 

  4. Select candidates who are compassionate and strive for exemplary patient care 

  5. Select candidates who have exemplary work ethics and a sense of responsibility 

  6. Select candidates who are comitted to lifelong learning 

  7. Selection of candidates will be objective, unbiased and adhere to the principles of inclusion, equity and diversity

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is composed of the Program Director,
the Assistant Program Director, two senior residents and faculty from each
hospital site.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Evidence of work experience, volunteer experience and work-life balance   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Electives are not used as a screening measure for an interview. A demonstrated interest in Plastic Surgery is preferred.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of coping mechanisms and work-life balance   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of leadership roles, duration and accomplishments   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evidence of rotational performance and evaluation rotational failures   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Evidence of personal, academic, interpersonal concerns   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  All documents/files submitted will be reviewed by the committee   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Evidence of publications and/or involvement in scholarly work   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Assess courses taken and evaluation failures   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Electives are not used as a screening measure for an
interview. A demonstrated interest in Plastic Surgery is preferred.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  This will be evaluated using standardized case-base scenarios   
Collegiality |  This will be evaluated using standardized case-base scenarios   
Communication skills |  Evaluated throughout interview by observing the candidate answering questions (verbal and nonverbal)   
Health advocacy |  This will be evaluated using standardized case-base scenarios   
Interest in the discipline |  Evaluated by asking the rationale for their choice of plastic surgery as a lifetime career   
Interest in the program |  This will be evaluated by asking the rationale for choosing our program for residency   
Leadership skills |  This will be evaluated using standardized case-base scenario   
Professionalism |  This will be evaluated using standardized case-base scenario   
Scholarly activities |  Indirectly evaluated by questions surrounding research/scholarly experiences from CV   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at Western was established
in 1959 by the world-renowned hand surgeon Dr. Robert McFarlane. Since then,
more than 70 plastic surgeons have been trained in London. These surgeons
practice all over North America and the Middle East. Approximately 25% of
these surgeons practice in academic centres, in their turn contributing to the
training of a new generation of plastic surgeons.

The Division has a long tradition of excellence in clinical care and possesses
subspecialty expertise in hand surgery, reconstructive microsurgery, breast
surgery, adult and paediatric craniofacial surgery, burn care, peripheral
nerve surgery, aesthetic surgery, wound healing, and cutaneous malignancies.

In conjunction with the Department of Surgery, the Division of Plastic Surgery
offers a _Master of Science in Surgery_(in the PGY2 year). This MSc is
tailored to the unique needs of surgical trainees; providing an intensive
research experience and a solid foundation for success as an academic surgeon.
The MSc in Surgery is intended to fully prepare individuals specifically
seeking future positions in Academic Health Science Centres for the demands of
a research career in relation to the CanMeds roles of Medical Expert and
Scholar. Demonstration of core competencies will be required through
coursework, basic/clinical/applied research, thesis preparation and defense.

# Academic Highlights

  * Summer Series  
\- Cadaver dissections with staff  
\- Synthes courses  
   \- AO level, hand and craniofacial alternating  
\- Botox clinic  
  

  * Academic Wednesday half days

  * Monthly Journal Club  
  

  * Bi-monthly Cosmetic Journal Club  
  

  * Microsurgery Lab  
– 2 Sessions/year  
  

  * Peripheral Nerve Symposium  
\- Axogen workshop

  * Mentorship Program

  * Annual Resident Research Day

  *  Conference funding available for such meetings as:

    * Canadian Society of Plastic Surgery (CSPS)
    * American Society of Plastic Surgery (ASPS)
    * American Society for Surgery of the Hand (ASSH)
    * American Society for Hand Surgery (AHHS)
    * Canadian Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery (CSAPS)
    * International Federation of Societies for Surgery of the Hand (IFSSH)
    * AO courses – hand trauma, craniofacial trauma
    * Microsurgery Duke Flap course
    * Board exam review course
  * 

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Competency Committee, consisting of  the Program Director, the Assistant
Program Director, the Wellness Lead and faculty members from each hospital
site, meet regularly to discuss various aspects of the training program.
Regular in-training evaluations are given to all residents.

The residents are given graded responsibilities on the ward as well as in the
operating room with the chief residents in charge of the clinical teaching
units' daily function and being able to perform all major surgical procedures
under supervision, depending on their level of skill and knowledge.

#  

## PGY1

#### The academic year is divided into 13 blocks, each block is 4 weeks in
length:

  * Orientation/Boot Camp/Plastics (Orientation/boot camp 2 weeks; on Plastics service approx. 2 weeks)
  * Trauma (1 block)

  * General Surgery (2 blocks)

  * Orthopedic Surgery (2 blocks in the HULC)

  * Internal Medicine (1 block)

  * Emergency Medicine (1 block)

  * Electives (2 blocks)

  * ENT (1 block)

  * CCTC (2 blocks)

## PGY2-5

The PGY2-5 years are dedicated to Plastic Surgery rotations. Teaching and
surgical case exposure is on an incremental basis over the five years, leading
to chief resident positions in each of the three hospitals for four-month
rotations in the final year. Various plastic surgery sub-specialty units exist
at the three teaching hospitals (LHSC - University Hospital & Victoria
Hospital Campuses, and St. Joseph's Health Care) including craniofacial
surgery, burn surgery, micro and hand surgery and cosmetic surgery.

In addition, 2nd Year residents have a dedicated Burns rotation at Sunnybrook
Hospital in Toronto, a Community Plastics rotation, and two dedicated Research
Blocks. Residents who wish to enroll in the Masters of Surgery Program also
receive an additional three dedicated Research Blocks.

Residents also have a 6-week elective in their 4th Year and can choose their
placement with Program Director approval.

## Research

Each resident is required to complete a research project annually which is
presented at Annual Resident Research Day which occurs in the spring/summer
each year.

Fully staffed BioEngineering, Clinical Outcomes, and Cell Biology laboratories are part of the Roth | McFarlane Hand & Upper Limb Centre at St. Joseph's Health Care which is an inter-disciplinary facility comprised of Plastic and Orthopedic surgeons.  
  
An MSc in Surgery degree program is offered by Western which is tailored to
the unique needs of surgical trainees; providing an intensive research
experience and a solid foundation for success as a future academic surgeon. 3
dedicated research blocks in the second year of residency helps to facilitate
this unique opportunity.

## Seminars

The teaching program consists of weekly morning seminars (with protected time for residents), weekly inter-hospital Grand Rounds, and a monthly Journal Club. Twice weekly rounds are held at the Roth | McFarlane Hand & Upper Limb Centre on subjects related to hand surgery. A Microsurgery Training Lab is organized for residents each year at the Surgical Skills Laboratory at St. Joseph's Health Care. A cadaver laboratory dissection course is also offered.

* * *

# Training Sites

The core surgery years and specialty training are centered at the teaching
hospitals of Western University - London Health Sciences Centre (comprised of
University Hospital, Victoria Hospital and the Children's Hospital of Western
Ontario) and St. Joseph's Health Care London. A 6-week community plastic
surgery rotation is available outside of London during the 4th year.

* * *

# Additional Information

All information contained is subject to change until such time as the rank
order lists are filed. Please ensure you review information on a regular
basis.

Western University welcomes applications from international medical graduates
(IMGs). However, this program does not have any allocated IMG positions this
year.

Residents write the Canadian Society of Plastic Surgery's In-Training
Examination each January. The program also includes practice oral exams each
spring for PGY3-5's in preparation for the Royal College exams.

On call responsibilities comply with the collective agreement of the
Professional Association of Residents of Ontario (PARO) (1 in 3 out-of-house
call, 1 in 4 in-house call). Graduates of our training program are ready to
pursue an academic career or a community plastic surgery career (with or
without further fellowship training).



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27245?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27245