#  McGill University - Medical Genetics and Genomics - Montreal  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Regular Stream for All  

##  Last approved on September 05, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Sarah Abdullah-Maklan  

Address Department of Human Genetics  
McGill University  
1001 Decarie Blvd, Rm A04.3140  
Montreal , Quebec, H4A 3J1  

Work  (514) 412-4400 ext 24427

Cell  (514) 895-7334

Websites of Interest [ Medical Genetics Training Program
](https://www.mcgill.ca/humangenetics/our-programs/medical-genetics-residency)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Emma Paddock

Title: Program Administrator

Email: residency.medicalgenetics@mcgill.ca

Phone: 514 934 1934 x 36151

  

General Information: Department of Human Genetics

Name: Kandace Springer

Title: Operations Manager

Email: kandace.springer@mcgill.ca

Phone: (514) 398-3600

  

* * *

# Important Information

McGill Office of Postgraduate Medical Education  | [McGill Postgraduate Medical Education](https://www.mcgill.ca/pgme/)  
---|---  
McGill Department of Human Genetics  | [McGill Department of Human Genetics](https://www.mcgill.ca/humangenetics/about-us)  
McGill Residency Program in Medical Genetics and Genomics  | [McGill Residency Program in Medical Genetics and Genomics](https://www.mcgill.ca/humangenetics/our-programs/medical-genetics-residency)   
MUHC Division of Medical Genetics    | [MUHC Division of Medical Genetics](https://muhc.ca/med-genetics)  
Jewish General Hospital, Division of Medical Genetics | [Jewish General Hospital Division of Medical Genetics](https://www.jgh.ca/care-services/genetics/)  
  
                   

                                



                                    

              

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

Applications may be submitted in either English or French.  In order to
maximize clinical exposure during the residency, a working knowledge of both
languages is very strongly recommended although not required.  

McGill University proudly welcomes an international cohort of residents into
its Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) each year. Residents gain valuable
experience serving a diverse, multicultural community in French and English.
In Quebec, residents are legally required to care for patients in French and
in English. Therefore, PGME provides residents with French language
acquisition tools and resources to help ensure each can care for Francophone
patients, as well as fully benefit from their training experience.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP must be submitted with each application.  
EITHER:

  * A copy of Canadian Birth Certificate or a copy of Certificate of Canadian Citizenship

OR

  * A copy of Permanent Resident Card (copy of both sides of the card) OR a copy of an IMM 5292, IMM 1000, IMM 5688;   
NB: the Permanent Resident card can be expired.

OR

  * A copy of Citizenship Card (copy of both sides of the card)

P.S: the passport is not an acceptable proof of citizenship.

Each year, all candidates applying in a CaRMS match must provide proof of
valid current citizenship or permanent resident status. As of the 2021 R-1
match cycle, CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate
the citizenship/legal status verification, which is usually completed by
Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) offices.

if an applicant has had their citizenship/legal status documentation verified
by any of the following organizations for the current R-1 match, the applicant
will not be required to assign a proof of citizenship/PR document (as pictured
in the screenshot below).

  * Medical Council of Canada ([MCC](https://mcc.ca/))
  * British Columbia's Clinical Assessment Program ([BC-CAP](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/clinical-assessment/))
  * Bureau de cooperation interuniversitaire ([BCI](https://www.bci-qc.ca/en/))
  * Alberta International Medical Graduate Program ([AIMG](https://www.aimg.ca/))

For further information, please check the following link on CaRMS:
[https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-
citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-)

Examinations

Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the MCCQE Part I exam, please include the statement of
results and supplemental information report in your application.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the NAC exam, please include the statement of results and
supplemental information report in your application. The MCCQE Part II or
Certificate of Registration of the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada
(LMCC) is accepted in place of the NAC Examination.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required and should be from faculty with whom
the candidate has trained. The reference letters should include comments on
the candidate's academic potential, clinical skills, professionalism, and
ability to work well with colleagues.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  300

  

A brief (no more than 300 word) personal statement. The personal statement
should address why the applicant is attracted to medical genetics and the
characteristics they want in a residency program.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Submission of the CV is required.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Additional required IMG documents

Lettre de reconnaissance de l'équivalence du diplôme MD

Please provide the results of the exams that permitted you to have your
medical degree recognized and approved by the CMQ.

Graduates with the diploma of doctor of osteopathy awarded by a school of
osteopathic medicine situated in the United States providing that the school
is accredited by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the
American Osteopathic Association do not have to obtain the recognition of the
equivalence of the medical diploma by the CMQ. These graduates do not require
the MCCQE Part I, the National Assessment Collaboration (NAC), or the
Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada (LMCC) in order to apply.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All applicant files submitted before the deadline will be reviewed by the
Selection Committee. Each file is assessed for commitment to medical genetics,
academic potential, collegiality, and evidence of scholarly activity. Weight
is also given to participation in extracurricular activities, strength of
reference letters, and the candidate's personal statement.  Following file
review, selected applicants will be offered a virtual interview. Once all
interviews are complete, the candidates will be ranked according to a
combination of file review and interview scores.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 27, 2025
  * January 28, 2025
  * February 3, 2025
  * February 4, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will take place on the mornings
of January 27 and 28 and February 3 and 4, 2025.  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process:

Virtual interviews will be granted to candidates who meet the selection
criteria. If a candidate is not available on any of the three interview dates,
we will attempt to find an alternative date. Prior to the interview date,
candidates should prepare a brief (10 - 15 minute) presentation on a medical
genetics topic of their choice.

Each candidate will have a 30 minute virtual interview with the Selection
Committee. After the interviews, each candidate will give their presentation
to the Selection Committee. Following the presentations, the candidates will
join our current Medical Genetics residents over lunch for an opportunity to
discuss other aspects of the program.



* * *

# Selection Criteria

Our program seeks candidates with evidence of academic achievement in both
basic and clinical sciences, demonstrated enthusiasm for medical genetics, and
excellence in clinical reasoning. We want residents with strong intra- and
inter-personal and communication skills who display compassion and cultural
sensitivity in their interactions with others. Research experience is an
asset, although not required. Working knowledge of French is very strongly
recommended.

## Program goals

The practice of Medical Genetics is based on an in-depth knowledge of basic
genetic principles, an understanding of genetic disease as it affects the
health of individuals of all ages, and an awareness and application of the
principles of genetic counselling. The practice increasingly entails
translation of rapid scientific and clinical advances in genetics to care of
patients and families through diagnosis, treatment, and counselling. With this
foundation, the medical geneticist provides compassionate, patient-centered,
culturally sensitive care to persons with genetic disorders across the
lifespan.

The McGill Medical Genetics Residency Program supports residents in their
journeys to becoming expert medical geneticists. Our program is committed to
promoting a collegial atmosphere where faculty and learners work together to
ensure a safe learning environment in which resident well-being is of prime
importance.  We aim to promote the development of residents who are self-
directed and committed to excellence in education, scholarship, and clinical
care.



## Selection process goals

The McGill University Medical Genetics Residency program seeks applicants who

  * have a demonstrated enthusiasm and aptitude for medical genetics
  * have strong interpersonal skills
  * have excellent oral and written communication skills
  * demonstrate excellent clinical reasoning
  * are conscientious, motivated, passionate, and self-directed in their learning
  * display cultural sensitivity and social accountability in patient care
  * are compassionate and resilient
  * have demonstrated academic potential
  * respond well to feedback
  * are committed to developing their French language skills

## File review process

Review team composition : The Selections Committee consists of the program
director, a medical geneticist, a clinician scientist, and the chief resident.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Research, publications, awards, evidence of leadership, extracurricular activities   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Interest in medical genetics; rotation evaluations.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Cursory review only   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence of leadership and community engagement   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence of teaching and mentorship   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic achievement   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Written communication skills; experience with and enthusiasm for the practice of medical genetics; academic potential; teaching skills.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Interpersonal and communications skills; collegiality; compassion; cultural sensitivity; professionalism   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Academic potential   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance; unexplained gaps in education   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We recognize that the COVID pandemic has resulted in limited availability of
electives and will take this into account during file review.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work well as an active member of a team   
Collegiality |  Ability to work well with others to create a productive work environment   
Communication skills |  Ability to use written and spoken language to convey ideas clearly, concisely and completely   
Health advocacy |  Understanding of the social and cultural determinants of health.   
Interest in the discipline |  Commitment to and understanding of the practice of medical genetics   
Interest in the program |  Understanding of and enthusiasm for the unique elements of our residency program.   
Leadership skills |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Professionalism |  Behavior and attitude in interactions with staff and residents. Capacity for self-reflection.   
Scholarly activities |  Academic potential; ability to answer questions related to oral presentation   
Other interview component(s) |  Ability to provide a well-organized written summary of a clinical scenario that is presented orally.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  Candidates' performance during on-site elective.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**Highlights of the McGill medical genetics residency program**

  * Competency-based medical education.
  * Broad clinical exposure to all areas of medical genetics.
  * Multidisciplinary clinics: cardiogenetics, neurofibromatosis, and pediatric oncogenetics.  
  * Resident Continuity Clinic beginning in PGY3. Residents follow both new patients and those that they have seen previously.
  * Acting staff rotations: one inpatient and one outpatient rotation.
  * Coursework in Human Genetics, Laboratory Genetics and Embryology. 
  * Up to 6 months of electives outside of McGill.
  * Biannual in-training OSCE and written examinations. 
  * Annual ACMG in-training exam.
  * Ample opportunities for research.
  * Weekly Academic Half Day:
    * One-hour didactic teaching, including sessions on risk assessment and skill development.
    * One-hour resident-led journal club or “Approach to” sessions.
    * One-hour resident-led case review, VUS rounds, or monthly pan-Canadian video conferenced teaching session (TeleHealth for Genetics Residents and Fellows).
  * Funding for regional, national, and international genetics conferences
  * Funding for books and courses, including a board review course.

The Division of Medical Genetics provides bilingual genetic services to
persons of all ages within the highly diverse population of Montreal and to
the indigenous populations of Northern Quebec. Most faculty members speak
English and French while some speak a third language as well.

In addition to the Medical Genetics residency program, McGill offers CCMG-
certified training in Clinical Genetics, Clinical Biochemical Genetics,
Genetic and Genome Diagnostics (combined Molecular Genetics/Cytogenetics
training), and Laboratory Biochemical Genetics. Fellowships are also available
in Lysosomal Disorders, Pediatric Metabolic and Genetic Bone Disorders, and
Neurogenetics. The Department of Human Genetics at McGill is home to many
distinguished scientists and to the MSc program in Genetic Counselling.
Faculty and trainees in each of these areas interact with our residents,
providing additional rich learning experiences for all.  



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Canadian residency programs in Medical Genetics and Genomics launched
Competence by Design (CBD) in July, 2022. The times listed below for each
stage of training are approximate and may vary depending on the performance of
a particular resident. The first two years of the residency are devoted to
obtaining a solid base in pediatrics, internal medicine and maternal-fetal
medicine. Rotations in the fourth and fifth years can be adapted to the career
needs of the resident. Residents are allotted four weeks of vacation time each
year.

### **Transition to Discipline  **(2 months)

  * Medical Genetics, 1 month
  * Pediatrics, 1 month

### **Foundations of Discipline (20 months)**

  * Pediatrics: Hematology, Neurology, Endocrinology, Cardiology, Developmental Pediatrics, Nephrology, Inpatient Wards, NICU, Selectives
  * Internal Medicine: Cardiology (MAUDE--McGill Adult Unit for Congenital Heart Disease), Neurology, Inpatient Wards, Medical Oncology, Selectives
  * Maternal Fetal Medicine
  * Coursework in Human Genetics (if needed) and Embryology

### **Core of Discipline (35 months)**

  * Biochemical Genetics lab and clinics, 2 months
  * Cytogenetics, 2 months
  * Molecular Genetics, 2 months
  * General pediatric genetics clinics, 2 months
  * General adult genetics clinics, 2 months
  * Inpatient consultation service (pediatric and adult, general and biochemical)
  * Resident Continuity Clinics, 6 per year
  * Prenatal diagnosis, including participation in the multidisciplinary Fetal Diagnosis and Treatment Group
  * Cancer genetics, 2 months
  * Genetic counselling, one month
  * Metabolic and Genetic Bone disease clinics at Shriners Hospital, 1 month
  * Medical Genetics Selectives at McGill, adapted to resident’s career interests
  * Medical Genetics electives outside of McGill, up to 6 months, adapted according to resident’s career interests
  * Research

### Transition to Practice (8 months)

  * Acting staff rotations: 1 month inpatients; 1 month outpatients. 
  * Resident Continuity Clinics, 6 per year
  * Up to 6 months of electives, including Medical Genetics Selectives at McGill, adapted to resident’s career interests;Medical Genetics electives outside of McGill, up to 6 months, adapted according to resident’s career interests; and research.

### **Research**

Each resident is expected to complete a scholarly project by the end of their
training.  Residents meet with the program's research advisor by the end of
their second year of training to discuss potential topics and supervisors.

### **Education**

  * The Weekly Academic Half Day has three back-to-back sessions:
    * First session:
      * Didactic lectures provided by the Medical Genetics faculty or invited speakers OR
      * Trainee-led ethics presentations OR
      * Risk assessment session
    * Second session: resident-led
      * "Approach to"  OR
      * Journal club OR
    * Third session: resident-led
      * Case Review: discussion of interesting/instructive cases OR
      * Genomics: discussion of variants of uncertain significance; use of genomics databases OR
      * Resident wellness activities or role-playing/communication activities OR
      * Monthly TeleGRaF lectures

  * Weekly half-day teaching sessions continue throughout the summer covering approach to common metabolic emergencies, neurogenetics and other topics selected by the residents.
  * Monthly Canada-wide Tele-health for Genetics Residents and Fellows (TeleGRaF) sessions, delivered by videoconference
  * Biannual Pan-Canadian In-training OSCEs and written exams
  * Annual AMBGG In-Training exam
  * Coursework in Human Genetics (if needed), Laboratory Genetics, Embryology.
  * Financial support for ACMG Medical Genetics Review course, Bar Harbor Short Course in Human Genetics and/or the SIMD North American Metabolic Academy



* * *

# Training Sites

Most patient care at the McGill University Health Centre (MUHC) occurs
primarily at a new, multi-hospital campus known as the Glen. This first-class
facility provides state-of-the-art laboratories, individual patient rooms, and
proximity of all genetics consultants and trainees to one another.

All pediatric training takes place at the Montreal Children’s Hospital at the
MUHC-Glen, located at 1001 Decarie Blvd.

Internal Medicine rotations take place at one of three sites:

  * The Royal Victoria Hospital at the MUHC-Glen site
  * The Montreal General Hospital, part of the MUHC, located at 1650 Cedar Avenue
  * The Jewish General Hospital (JGH), 3755 Cote Ste Catherine

Most of the remaining rotations take place at the MUHC-Glen with a few
rotations at the JGH, the Shriner’s Hospital for Children, 1003 Decarie Blvd,
or the Montreal Neurological Hospital, 3801 University. Each site provides a
dedicated space for residents.

* * *

# Additional Information

**Faculty and Resident Numbers**

The Divisions of Medical Genetics at the MUHC and JGH currently have 19
physician faculty members, 6 PhD faculty members, 24 genetic counsellors, 3
metabolic dieticians, and four nurse practitioners.

There are currently ten medical genetics residents.

**Call responsibilities**

  * First and second year residents take call in the service to which they are assigned.
  * Senior residents take call from home for general and metabolic genetics. 
    * Call is divided equally among the residents
    * Call respects the contract of the Federation of Medical Residents of Quebec

* * *

# FAQ

Montreal is a vibrant, ethnically diverse, safe city that offers excellent
public transportation, abundant green spaces, and a variety of cultural and
recreational activities. Affordable housing is available within an easy
commute to the hospitals.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26366?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26366