#  NOSM University - Family Medicine - Remote First Nations Northern Ontario  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG RoS Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on November 19, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Jason Sutherland  

Address c/o Program Coordinator  
NOSM Postgraduate Education -Family Medicine  
955 Oliver Road  
Thunder Bay, ON, Ontario, P7B 5E1  

Work

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Remote First Nations Stream
](https://www.nosm.ca/familymedicine/our-streams-at-a-
glance/remotefirstnations/)  
[ Northern Ontario School of Medicine ](http://www.nosm.ca/postgrad)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Diane Bannon

Title: Site Director

  

Name: Dr. Kim Varty

Title: Assistant Site Director

  

Name: George Drazenovich

Title: Program Coordinator

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please visit our website for more information on the program.

[NOSM U-Family Medicine](http://www.nosm.ca/familymedicine)
(http://www.nosm.ca/familymedicine)

**You will find:**

  * Interactive and multimedia information on our Program
  * Curated information to help you in your program selection, given the virtual nature of the CaRMS selection process and absence of an in-person visit to our program
  * Schedule of our promotion and information sessions
  * Information on how to get your questions answered



****

**Additional  Requirement**: Situational Judgement Test (FMProC) is a required
test for all applicants to NOSM University Family Medicine Program (all
streams).

(Please refer to the Supporting Documentation Section)



****

All promotion, recruitment and selection activities will be conducted
virtually, using a variety of web-based tools to help you get to know us, and
us you!

 **IMPORTANT NOTICE:  Community Reference Letter Preferred at Time of
Interview**

  * We prefer a community reference indicating your social accountability work with a community group or association serving marginalized populations. This reference can be written by an individual who knows you personally (e.g. a spiritual leader, member of a not-for-profit group, committee or volunteer organization/association that you've been involved with, a teacher, healthcare professional, employer/colleague, etc.), who can attest to your suitability for life in a remote, northern community, and your suitability for this residency program. This is a non-clinical reference that should focus on any related experiences, skills, knowledge, community involvement, personal qualities/characteristics etc. that make you an ideal candidate and fit for this stream.
  * **Applicants who match to this stream may not choose any other community as their home-base / location of primary residence.**                                                                                                                          



**IMPORTANT NOTICE: 2 Years Family Medicine + 6 Months Additional Skills
Training**

  * In addition to the two-year Family Medicine program, residents in the Remote First Nations Stream are provided an additional 6 months of mandatory skills training to ensure they are provided increased time and exposure to various competencies and experiences associated with comprehensive clinical practice in remote First Nations communities. These learning experiences are focused on areas such as, but not limited to, rural and remote medicine, Indigenous health, elder teachings and cultural safety training. These additional training exposures provide our learners the added time, support and flexibility to adapt to their individual learner need with the realities of family practice in remote Indigenous communities.
  * Upon successful completion of the core of the Family Medicine Program, NOSM University Family Medicine residents will be compensated at the PGY3 salary level during this expanded 6-month additional skills training period.

* * *

# Return of Service

_Graduating Residents will be accorded a two-year Return of Service (ROS) with
the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care, providing physician
services to the Thunder Bay-based Matawa Health Co-operative (MHC). The MHC
serves multiple Matawa communities in both urban and remote locales where
physicians will be able to spend approximately 1 week a month in a remote
setting, such as Eabametoong First Nations, alongside their other duties as
assigned by the MHC._

_Further details on the Matawa Health Cooperative and Matawa Communities can
be found on the Matawa First Nation website at
[www.matawa.on.ca](http://www.matawa.on.ca/)_

**IMPORTANT NOTICE:**  
Although MOTP applicants may apply, their Return of Service Agreement to the
Department of National Defence does conflict with the ROS requirements of this
program. MOTP candidates are not encouraged to apply unless they are in a
position to dissolve their current contract and obligations to the Department
of National Defence.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

**NOSM University offers Family Medicine training in several  streams:  
**

  * **Larger urban streams (pop. greater than 100,000)**
    * Sudbury
    * Thunder Bay
  * **Smaller urban streams (pop. 50,000-80,000)**
    * North Bay
    * Sault Ste. Marie
    * Timmins
  * **Rural/Remote/Distributed streams (pop. <20,000, often much smaller)**
    * Remote First Nation (RFN)
    * Rural West - Dryden, Fort Frances, Kenora, Nipigon, Sioux Lookout
    * Rural South - Bracebridge, Gravenhurst, Huntsville, Parry Sound
    * Rural East - Blind River, Elliott Lake, Espanola, Hearst, Kapuskasing, Manitoulin Island, Sturgeon Falls, Temiskaming Shores
      * Other rural northern Ontario communities (excluding the other Family Medicine streams/communities – Thunder Bay, Sudbury, Timmins, North Bay, Sault Ste. Marie) may also be considered as potential home-base locations, subject to preceptor availability/as site capacity allows.
  * **Integrated Family Medicine/Emergency Medicine (iFMEM)**
    * Sault Ste. Marie



Please note: If applying to more than one NOSM U Family Medicine urban stream,
the same supporting documents may be used for each application. **The
R******ural streams****  and the iFMEM stream require additional
documentation.****

****Rural streams (East, South, West):  ****an additional document (the [NOSM
U FM Rural
Addendum/Questionnaire](https://nosm.sharepoint.com/sites/FamilyMedicine/residentselection/carms/_layouts/15/guestaccess.aspx?share=EejyhazVg9hIsv5FzB_IHH8BKS1yk92W5NhNJSR7S4F5qg))
with specific questions pertaining to suitability for rural training is
required.

**Integrated Family Medicine/Emergency Medicine stream:** an additional
document (the [NOSM U iFMEM
Addendum/Questionnaire](https://nosm.sharepoint.com/sites/FamilyMedicine/residentselection/carms/_layouts/15/guestaccess.aspx?share=Efu6WFuplRVLnul-0ineAQQB6Ceg5xxxdkS-
Bw8x-yqm_A)) with specific questions pertaining to suitability for integrated
EM training is required.

 **Applications to additional streams (except RFN and iFMEM) must be completed
by  11:59 p.m. E.T. on Sunday, February 2, 2025.**

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

_Canadian Citizenship:_

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided by submitting one of
the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.  Failure
to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.  No
other forms of verification are acceptable.

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of the card must be provided and legible.

Examinations

Required

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 2

**Letter of Reference - 2 Letters Required**

The Letters of Reference should provide an assessment of your medical
knowledge, clinical skills, interpersonal skills, ability to communicate
effectively, your suitability for working within small communities, working
with Indigenous Peoples, working and living in a First Nation community -
including a remote First Nation, your attitudes toward learning, and
commitment to Indigenous Health Care and Family Medicine.

  
**  
**

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

**The personal letter (maximum  500 words) should focus on the following:**

  1. Experiences contributing to your interest in Family Medicine;
  2. Aspects of the NOSM U Family Medicine program that interest you and will assist you in becoming an excellent Family Physician;
  3. Connections or personal qualities that make you an ideal candidate for practice in Northern settings, including experience or interest in our diverse populations;
  4. Your greatest challenge if you are accepted into this program; and,
  5. Additional information about yourself, not found elsewhere, that should be considered by the Selection Panel.

We encourage you to outline your letter with bullets/numbers.

**_If your  transcript/MSPR indicates academic difficulty, failure(s), repeat
of a year or any gaps in your education, please attach a supplementary
statement to the END of your Personal Letter entitled "Transcript/CV Addendum"
explaining the above._**

Custom Résumé / CV

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

Optional: you may submit abstracts of recent publications.

Letter of community support

**Community Reference Letter  \- 1 Letter preferred at the time of
interviews**

One reference letter from a community member who can attest to your commitment
to community practice and your ability to integrate effectively into a First
Nations, remote, or other rural community.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

**Applications for the Remote First Nations Stream will be reviewed and scored
independently by two  reviewers:**

  * A NOSM University Family Medicine Faculty Member;
  * A professional staff from Matawa Health Co-operative or one of the representatives from the service community;



* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: Applicants to this stream will be
**required to participate in a separate interview process** , in addition to
their standard CMG interview with the program, if they have chosen to apply to
any other NOSM University CMG Family Medicine Program streams (i.e. Thunder
Bay, Sudbury, Sault Ste. Marie, North Bay, Timmins, Rural East/South/West, or
MOTP). Applicants who have applied to the Remote First Nations Stream and any
other NOSM University Family Medicine Program stream(s) will be scheduled
appropriately to ensure their scheduled interviews do not conflict with one
another.  
  
_Interviews for the Remote First Nations Northern Ontario stream will be held
January 18 - February 9, 2025._  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will be conducted
virtually by a Family Medicine Resident, NOSM U Faculty member, and up to two
members of Matawa Health Co-operative or their community member designate, and
an Elder as an independent observer.  
  
Format: The interview will be traditional/question-based, including 8-10
questions, providing topics for discussion for the interviewers and you to
share information.  
  
Duration: Thirty (30) minutes.  
  
Time permitting, you will have the opportunity to ask questions, but please
keep in mind that your interview team may not have the answers. We invite you
to save your questions for our information sessions and our Q&As. Please visit
our [website](http://www.nosm.ca/familymedicine) for more information on those
events.  
  
**Ojibway, Cree, Oji ­Cree (or other Indigenous language) interviews may be
requested by candidates, and every effort will be made by the program to
accommodate these requests.**  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

_In keeping with the CanMEDs roles, please note that throughout the entire
application and  selection process, your interactions with NOSM University
personnel may be taken into consideration by the program in their selection
process and ranking decisions._**  
  
The NOSM University Family Medicine Residency Program will review candidate's
applications based on:**

  * demonstrated interest in the health of Indigenous Peoples
  * demonstrated interest in Family Medicine ability to fulfill all CanMEDS-FM roles
  * demonstrated interest in clinical practice in northern Ontario and/or rural medicine
  * interest in Mental Health, Addictions and Public Health issues an asset
  * strength of references
  * excellent interpersonal and collaboration skills
  * evidence of education related to cultural safety
  * evidence of resilience, self-directed learning and reflective practice
  * desire to train in a remote First Nations community supplemented with needed experiences in a larger Northern Ontario community
  * knowledge of Indigenous Peoples of Canada history and challenges
  * connection to northern Ontario educationally, professionally, or personally

## Program goals

NOSM University (NOSM U) is committed to the education of high-quality
physicians and health professionals, and to international recognition as a
leader in distributed, learning-centred, community-engaged education and
research.

The NOSM U Family Medicine Residency Program's vision is to educate physicians
based on the CanMEDS-FM roles to develop the skills and attitudes necessary to
deliver excellent, culturally respectful health care to the communities of
northern Ontario, including rural and remote areas.

## Selection process goals

Through our selection process, our program aims to identify candidates who
have a strong academic history with demonstrated competence and interest in
family medicine (e.g. FM rotations, electives, scholarly activities,
conference involvement and/or other related work or life experiences). We are
seeking candidates who possess superior clinical and communication skills, and
have the ability to relate to patients, their families and caregivers with
compassion, empathy, sensitivity and humility.

We are looking for candidates who possess the ability and willingness to work
collaboratively (within and across professional domains) in a team dynamic to
secure optimal patient outcomes, while exemplifying the highest standards of
professional behaviour -- inclusive of responsibility, respect, and self-
awareness.

We are also looking to identify candidates who would be a good fit for our
program. As a socially accountable medical university, accountable to the
needs and the diversity of the populations of northern Ontario, candidates
best suited to the NOSM U Family Medicine Residency Program are those with a
vested interest in rural medicine, who can adapt and thrive in a hands-on,
distributed residency program that requires flexibility and some travel away
from their primary location of residence. At times, you will train in
environments with very few learners, which affords excellent first-in-line,
hands-on experiences.  
  
We also believe that candidates who are resilient, can prioritize their
personal well-being and work-life balance, and are also committed to self-
reflective learning, continuing professional development, and quality
improvement, are well-suited to our residency program. Through our selection
process we aim to identify and successfully match candidates who possess these
attributes.

## File review process

Review team composition : Applications for the Remote First Nations Stream
will be reviewed and scored independently by two reviewers:  
  
\- 1 NOSM University Family Medicine Faculty Member;  
\- 1 Matawa Health Co-operative staff member  
  
Our file review team comprises site Directors, Assistant Site Directors, and
Matawa Health Co-operative staff members or their community designates.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 201 - 400  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Academic & work background/experiences, personal/professional accomplishments, communication skills   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Diverse range relevant to the discipline, rural and/or northern/Indigenous an asset   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Not applicable   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Personal interests, volunteerism, community involvement, work-life balance & wellness. Include in CV   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Any leadership roles held throughout training should be outlined in the CV   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Patient interactions, FM rotation competencies, any academic, personal or professionalism concerns   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Experiences, interest/knowledge in FM and our program, personal/northern/rural/stream suitability   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Commitment to FM, performance, knowledge/clinical skills, character, attitude towards learning, professionalism, engagement in learning   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Scholarly activities with related focus to Indigenous, underserved, rural or remote populations.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Strength of academic record, any red flags/concerns   
Other file component(s) |  Related experiences, skills, knowledge, commitment to community involvement & working with underserved populations, personal attributes, suitability for this stream/life and practice in a Remote First Nations community.  
Transcript/CV Addendum:  
  
If any part of your application indicates academic difficulty, failure(s),
repeat of a year or any gaps in your education, a supplementary statement at
the END of your Personal Letter is required. Please title your statement as
"Transcript/CV Addendum", explaining the above.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Demonstrated ability to work well in a team setting/multidisciplinary environment   
Collegiality |  Personable, respectful towards others, values the importance of a supportive/collegial atmosphere   
Communication skills |  Able to reflect and communicate responses clearly and concisely, can communicate well with others   
Health advocacy |  Advocacy for patients, including geographically isolated and marginalized populations   
Interest in the discipline |  Genuine passion for the discipline of Family Medicine and future practice goals.   
Interest in the program |  Knowledge of Indigenous history, cultural practices, Northern ON. patient populations & challenges   
Leadership skills |  Qualities such as: proactive/takes initiative, accountable, innovative, motivated and goal-oriented   
Professionalism |  Conducts themselves in a professional manner, self-aware, unbiased, morally/ethically responsible   
Scholarly activities |  We do not formally evaluate this component during the interview.   
Other interview component(s) |  Problem-Solving Skills: Overcoming challenges, conflict resolution, ability to rationalize and take appropriate action.  
  
Personal Attributes: Personal characteristics and interests, experiences,
learning style/attitude towards learning, practice goals, community
involvement  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  In keeping with the CanMEDs roles, please note that throughout the
entire application and interview process, your interactions with NOSM U team
members may be taken into consideration by the selection committee and the
program in their selection process and ranking decisions.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Find out more about the Remote First Nation Stream
[here](https://www.nosm.ca/familymedicine/our-streams-at-a-
glance/remotefirstnations/)

**Residents can expect Family Medicine training that will prepare them for
eventual practice in any community, and especially in rural, remote and
Indigenous northern Ontario communities.**

  * Our program spans the geography of northern Ontario and experiences exist across all our regions. At times, residents will travel for rotations, away from their home site, to experience the breadth of the discipline. Support is available for housing and travel costs
  * Community immersion in Eabametoong First Nation which will allow residents to become embedded in Indigenous culture and traditional practices, and experience the rewards and challenges of delivering health care in remote First Nations communities
  * Other diverse opportunities exist to encounter, immerse in and deliver health care to First Nation peoples within northern Indigenous communities in the Matawa Tribal Council Area
  * In addition to core Family Medicine training, opportunity to learn about traditional healing and medicine therapies from Elders and other community members, and to undertake academic curriculum designed around Indigenous health competencies
  * Concentrated training opportunities in cultural competency, addictions and mental health, and interprofessional team care
  * Early integration as a key member of an interdisciplinary health care team dedicated to professionalism, high quality patient care in a community context with excellent medical education
  * A diverse variety of community based primary care, in-patient and outpatient experiences emphasized from the beginning of residency
  * Unparalleled preceptor support from physician faculty and preceptors whose primary focus is patient care and teaching
  * Initial block of training focused on transition to residency to ensure successful progression through the two years of training
  * A non-clinical curriculum with dedicated time for academic sessions mapped to the CFPC Priority Topics, including a high-quality longitudinal simulation program
  * Commitment to resident learning
  * Financial support for resident travel to and from core clinical placements away from the home base and all mandatory educational activities at non-home base locations
  * Housing support for core rotations away from home-base/primary residence for up to 6 months per academic year
  * Opportunities to participate in a scholarly project, including research and quality improvement, under expert guidance
  * Funding available for research, professional development and conference participation
  * Exceptional lifestyle balance with a wide variety of outstanding northern Ontario recreational opportunities
  * Access to advanced technology and informatics that allows 24/7 access to electronic search engines, and electronic indexes, as well as an extensive collection of electronic medical/health journals and textbooks.
  * Exceptional lifestyle balance with a wide variety of outstanding northern Ontario recreational opportunities

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training exceeds the Royal College or College of Family
Physicians of Canada standard.

Find out more on the Remote First Nations Stream Curriculum
[here](https://www.nosm.ca/familymedicine/our-streams-at-a-
glance/remotefirstnations/)

### Length of Training

**2 Years Family Medicine + 6 Months Additional Skills Training**

In addition to the two-year family medicine program, residents in the Remote
First Nations Stream are afforded an additional 6 months of self-directed
skills training to ensure they are provided increased time and exposure to
various competencies and experiences associated with comprehensive clinical
practice in remote First Nations communities.

These learning experiences may be focused in areas such as, but not limited
to, rural and remote medicine, indigenous health, Elder teachings and cultural
safety training. This additional training exposure provide our learners with
the added time, support and flexibility to adapt to their individual learner
needs with the realities of family practice in remote indigenous communities.
Upon completing the Family Medicine Program, NOSM University Family Medicine
residents will be compensated at the PGY3 salary level during this expanded
additional skills training period.

Program Overview

The NOSM University Family Medicine program is accredited by the College of
Family Physicians of Canada (CFPC). We follow the Triple C competency-based
curriculum in all of our training streams. Utilizing the CanMEDS-FM
competencies, and the CFPC's Priority Topics and Skills Dimensions, our
curriculum is built with community Family Medicine in mind. Our rotations are
largely community-based, with several opportunities within our hospitals.
Family physicians provide the vast majority of teaching. The comprehensiveness
of practice, continuity of care and education are central to our work.
Depending on the stream, the approach to scheduling clinical experiences will
vary. All Family Medicine residents will receive ongoing coaching and feedback
informally and formally through workplace-based assessment methods. Regularly
scheduled periodic reviews provide an opportunity for self-reflection and
coaching from a Competency Coach. Candidates who are self-directed and engage
in reflective practice are particularly suited to our residency program.  
  
**FM Remote First Nations Stream residents will have training opportunities in
three communities, based on the volume and availability of clinical
experiences. These communities include, but are not limited to:**

  * Eabametoong First Nation (Fort Hope)
  * Sioux Lookout
  * Thunder Bay

**Residents who match to the NOSM FM Remote First Nations Stream will be home-
based out of Thunder Bay, which will be their location of primary residence.**  

Residents will be placed with a Family Medicine preceptor, community members,
and health professionals for various rotations and learning experiences.
Additional core rotations and training will occur in the Sioux Lookout
community and other communities, such as Kenora in Northwestern Ontario.

Throughout the program, elective rotations (which can take place outside of
these three communities) provide additional flexibility and enable residents
to tailor their training to achieve competence in the domains of care and
their individual learning objectives still need to be met by immersions in the
regular core rotations. Diversity of experience during elective rotations is
encouraged and recognized as being extremely valuable.

### Clinical Curriculum

The NOSM University Family Medicine Clinical Curriculum incorporates a
diversity of experience and proficiency in areas integral to community-based
family practice. Each resident will spend significant time in the community
practice of family medicine preceptors. Residents participate in all aspects
of the practice, including provision of continuous care to their own patients
within the community and participation in the care of community patients
referred to Thunder Bay whenever possible. Participation in the care of the
practice’s patients in multiple environments including the hospital, patient’s
home and other scenarios is encouraged.  


**Domains of Care** | **Curriculum Objectives**  
---|---  
Across the Life Cycle       | 

  * Care of Children and Adolescents
  * Care of Adults
  * Care of Elderly
  * Maternal and Newborn Care
  * Men’s Health
  * Palliative Care
  * Women’s Health

  
Care of Underserved Patients   | 

  * Behavioural Medicine & Mental Health
  * Indigenous Health
  * Learning about Traditional Indigenous Health Practices

  
Procedural Skills | 

  * Procedural and Surgical Skills

  
  
  
_Throughout the program, elective rotations provide additional flexibility and
enable residents to tailor their training to achieve competence in the domains
of care and their individual learning objectives not met by immersions in the
regular core rotations. Diversity of experience during elective rotations is
encouraged and recognized as being extremely valuable._  

**  
Sample Clinical Curriculum**

This is the typical Family Medicine Clinical Curriculum for the Remote First
Nations Stream.



**  
PGY1 Clinical Curriculum  
  
**  
---  
Family Medicine in Thunder Bay | 8 weeks  
Family Medicine Rural | 8 weeks  
Internal Medicine | 4 weeks  
Emergency Medicine | 4 weeks  
Obstetrics/Women's Health | 4 weeks  
Mental Health | 8 weeks  
Pediatrics | 4 weeks  
Pain/Addictions | 4 weeks  
Hospitalist | 4 weeks  
Electives | 4 weeks  
**  
PGY2 Clinical Curriculum**  
  
  
Family Medicine in Thunder Bay | 8 weeks  
Family Medicine Rural | 8 weeks  
Emergency Medicine | 4 weeks  
Addictions/Pain Management | 4 weeks  
Internal Medicine | 8 weeks  
Psychiatry | 4 weeks  
Obstetrics/Women's Health | 4 weeks  
Pediatrics | 4 weeks  
Electives | 8 weeks  
**Additional 6 Months Clinical Curriculum**  
Palliative Care | 2 weeks  
Electives | 22 weeks  
  


### Additional / Cultural Curriculum

**Elder Teaching Program**

The Elders Teaching Program provides the opportunity for residents in the
stream to learn from Elders in the region. The Elders Teaching Program serves
to respond to the Truth and Reconciliation Call to Action number 23:_We call
upon those who can effect change within the Canadian health-care system to
recognize the value of Aboriginal healing practices and use them in the
treatment of Aboriginal patients in collaboration with Aboriginal healers and
Elders where requested by Aboriginal patients_. The goals of the program are
to: 1) Engage and educate residents with teachings from the Elders both within
and outside of the community; 2) Foster cultural safety and humility in
residents who will live and work directly in a remote First Nation community;
3) Learn about the community itself, and to understand better the role of
traditional healing in the holistic approaches of Indigenous People.

**Clinical Excellence**

  1. Subject to program approval and availability, attend the following conferences:  
    a. Society of Rural Physicians of Canada Rural and Remote Medicine Course   

**Cultural Safety Training**

  1.  Complete the San’yas online learning modules or equivalent

a. Attendance at various Indigenous health-focused conferences subject to
program approval and availability  

  
**Additional Courses to Prepare Residents for Isolated Practice**

Subject to availability and program approval, various courses such as Airway
Interventions Airway Interventions & Management in Emergencies (AIME),
Advanced Trauma Life Support (ATLS), Pediatric Advanced Life Support (PALS),
Advances in Labour and Risk Management (ALARM), Plastics – Rural Care, CaSTED
– Fracture Management Course

### Academic Program

The Family Medicine academic program consists of academic sessions, courses,
and retreats. Residents will regularly have access to protected time for
academic sessions and virtual teaching, separate from clinical duties. These
sessions will cover the vast majority of CFPC's Priority Topics, along with
some hands-on skills including simulations, procedural skills and other small
group learning. Due to the pandemic, we have moved to a virtual method of
delivery, with an eye to come together occasionally for mini-retreats at the
end of the blocks. In the first year of residency, all residents will
participate in the Core Curriculum offered to all NOSM University residents,
across all specialties, which will cover key topics such as the Resident as
Teacher, Indigenous health, medical errors and patient safety, etc. In
addition, specific sessions in second year will be tailored to preparation for
CFPC examination.

The NOSM U Family Medicine Residency program also provides financial support
for residents to obtain certification in Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS)
and Neonatal Resuscitation Program (NRP). Residents are also provided with
some financial support through the Resident Reimbursement Fund (RRF) which
they may choose to use to attend other courses or conferences such as Family
Medicine Forum (FMF) and Society of Rural Physicians Rural and Remote Medicine
Conference (SRPC).

Other learning sessions, virtual or in-person, are scattered throughout the
year to address learning needs.

We value the importance of wellness and encourage protected time for residents
to gather and dialogue with each other regularly.

### Resident Wellness

The mission of the Wellness Program is to assist our residents in achieving
the knowledge and skills to develop healthy and productive professional
identities during this important transitional time. The framework of the
program includes occupational/academic health, physical health, emotional
health and social health.

Our highest priority is providing and coordinating supports for residents who
have specific health needs, whether pre-existing or arising during residency.
Wellness Program personnel will assist residents with finding and coordinating
health resources, as well as working with residency programs to accommodate
the learning and training environment if needed. The program also includes
proactive components for all residents such as: a wellness curriculum,
promoting safe housing and transportation, ensuring your duty hour and leave
protections are respected, cultural supports, and guidance with developing a
healthy and productive professional identity.

### Scholarly Activity

While the role of scholar will evolve through the two-year program, a number
of activities are planned in the program:

  * Scholarly activity, including research and quality improvement (QI), supported by a Tutor
  * Ongoing didactic and small group sessions focused on Evidence-Based Medicine, Research and Quality Improvement
  * The opportunity to participate in Resident Research Day, where everyone will share their scholarly activity with peers.

These activities contribute to the development of effective teaching
practices, formulating and investigating scholarly questions, and
disseminating and communicating knowledge to professional audiences. Residents
also contribute to the quality improvement of the Family Medicine program by
providing feedback on the clinical experiences and academic curriculum; this
data is collected and utilized by the program to augment the overall program
curriculum.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Residents who match to the NOSM University FM Remote First Nations Stream
will be required to home-base out of Thunder Bay, which will be their location
of primary residence**.

The resident will have training opportunities in three communities based on
the volume and availability of clinical experiences. These communities
include, but are not limited to:

**Eabametoong First Nation**  
Eabametoong First Nation (also known as Fort Hope) is located on the shores of
Eabamet Lake in the Albany River system, in Northwestern Ontario. The
community location is approximately 240 km north of Beardmore and is
accessible by airplane, water or winter/ice roads. The nearest road/railway
town is Armstrong, 155 km southwest. Eabamet is 362-air km North of Thunder
Bay; 347-air km Northeast of Sioux Lookout; & 217-air km northwest of
Geraldton.  
  
[Eabametoong First Nation Community Profile
](http://community.matawa.on.ca/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/CULPOR_Eabametoong-
Com-Pro_2014.pdf)

**Sioux Lookout**  

Residents in Sioux Lookout have great opportunities to be placed with Family
Medicine preceptors who provide the full spectrum of scope of practice,
including emergency care, obstetrics, and inpatient care.

[Sioux Lookout Community Profile  
](https://nosm.sharepoint.com/:b:/g/proj/communityprofiles/EbbE8yW2XO1JqfI6IJVylRMBTy5xc-86HxHBI2Pp-7DQ_Q?e=IPktg9)  
[Municipality of Sioux Lookout Website  
](http://www.siouxlookout.ca/en/living-here/about-sioux-lookout.asp)

**Thunder Bay****  
** Thunder Bay provides diverse hands-on training for Family Medicine
residents in a closely knit medical community. You will have exposure to many
different family practice styles, including solo, group, and inter-
professional team based practices with many providing in-hospital care, walk-
in clinics, palliative care and maternal/newborn care. Thunder Bay is a
regional referral centre for Northwestern Ontario. The high volume tertiary
care hospital, Thunder Bay Regional Health Sciences Centre (TBRHSC), is a
375-bed tertiary care academic centre offering  comprehensive services in
state-of-the-art healthcare facilities with a fully integrated Regional Cancer
Centre Program. Other medical facilities in the city include the St. Joseph’s
Care Group which offers complex care, physical rehabilitation, long term care,
mental health and addictions; Norwest CHC; and the Thunder Bay District Health
Unit.

[Thunder Bay Community
Profile](https://nosm.sharepoint.com/:b:/g/proj/communityprofiles/EYikLR4WYvFAiV-
oj17PsPsBCbHVkrAS4sG20XPt4g7KMQ?e=hQhlYo)

[Thunder Bay Website](https://www.thunderbay.ca/en/index.aspx)

* * *

# Additional Information

To learn more about northern Ontario, please visit the "[Wider Campus of the
Northern Ontario School of Medicine](https://www.nosm.ca/our-community/wider-
campus-of-the-northern-ontario-school-of-medicine/)" webpage.

To learn more about our Program - visit us at
<http://www.nosm.ca/familymedicine> and <https://wanted.nosm.ca/>

Video: [A Powerful Voice for Primary Care in Canada - Family Medicine at NOSM
University](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bQuiAvpPZJk):
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bQuiAvpPZJk

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27098?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27098