#  Memorial University of Newfoundland - Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology -
St. John's

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 23, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Stephanie Reid  

Address Discipline of Laboratory Medicine  
Health Sciences Centre  
300 Prince Philip Drive  
St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador, A1B 3V6  

Work  (709) 864-6042

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Memorial University, Faculty of Medicine
](https://www.med.mun.ca/getdoc/78a248bf-6a30-419a-bbdf-397cd0d1b0cf/Home.aspx)  
[ Discipline of Laboratory Medicine
](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/laboratorymedicine/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Amanda Mullett

Title: Program Administrator

Email: labmedprogramadmin@mun.ca

Phone: 709-864-6042

  

Name: Dr. Simon Kirby

Title: Program Director

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please review Memorial University’s [Provincial
Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/) and admission requirements for postgraduate medical education.



**Orientation**

Applicants who match to Memorial University must attend orientation during the
last week of June. Details will be provided in March 2025.

* * *

# Return of Service

CMGs/USMGs:

No return of service (RoS) is required for CMG seats in the first iteration.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Exemption to English language proficiency testing**

  * If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States where English is the language of instruction, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.  
    * **If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States which provides training in multiple language streams, please self-identify which stream you graduated from, e.g. English-Stream, French-Stream, Spanish-Stream, etc.**

**Who is required to provide English Language Proficiency?**

  * If you graduated from a medical school in Canada or the United States where the language of instruction is not in English (e.g. French) you are required to provide proof of proficiency in the English language. It is important to note that this requirement extends to all such applicants, regardless of whether other secondary/post-secondary education took place in English and regardless of citizenship.

The accepted English language proficiency exams, and the required scores, are
as follows:

  * International English Language Testing System - Academic (IELTS-Academic), with a minimum score of **7**  in each of the components in the same sitting;
  * Occupational English Test - Medicine (OET-Medicine), with a minimum grade of **B**  in each of the four subsets in the same sitting;
  * Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program Test - General (CELPIP-General), with a minimum score of **9**  in each of the four skills in the same sitting.

Exams must be dated within 24 months of the residency start date (July 1).
Results must be available by the CaRMS document review deadline.

Examinations

Optional - will be reviewed

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If applicable.



Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  850

  

Content/topics that should be covered/ included in the personal letter:

           Why have you chosen this specialty (Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology)?

           Why are you interested in pursuing residency at Memorial University, St. John’s, NL?

           What are your career goals? 

Custom Résumé / CV

Memorial Declaration for Interruptions

ALL applicants must submit the[ Declaration of Interruptions
](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/pgme/current-learners/forms/)form with their
application.

Consent for disclosure

ALL applicants must submit the [Consent to Disclose
](https://www.mun.ca/medicine/pgme/current-learners/forms/)form with their
application.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

(If available.)

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

(If applicable.)

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 30, 2025
  * January 31, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be virtual and held on
Thursday, January 30 and Friday, January 31.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The program will contact short-listed
candidates. The interview will be approximately 30 minutes in duration and
will consist of a panel comprised of multiple faculty members and residents.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Memorial University of Newfoundland, Faculty of Medicine offers a five-year
residency training program in Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology. The program
is accredited by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.
Responsibility and involvement in decision making increases throughout the
five years of training, as skills and knowledge are applied to clinical
problems and professional skills are further developed. The program is under
the management of a Program Director and the Diagnostic and Molecular
Pathology Residency Program Committee (RPC). An administrative and elected
resident sit on the RPC for resident representation.

## Program goals

The goal of the Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology residency training program
at Memorial University is to produce respectful, competent specialists in
Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology, through the Competence by Design (CBD)
curriculum.

Our mission also includes a patient-centred approach to evidence based
practices, advocating for health care across and within all communities,
exposure to research and/or encouraging residents to develop scholarly
interest, effective communication with all staff within the laboratory and
throughout the hospital and/or community, and flexibility within the training
program (residents are able to partially individualize/tailor their training
plans in order to meet their career goals).

At the conclusion of the training period, residents will have the skills
necessary to pass the Royal College examination and function as skilled,
effective and safe pathologists.

## Selection process goals

Identify applicants who have demonstrated in interest in Diagnostic and
Molecular Pathology.

Identify applicants who are effective communicators and interact
professionally with others.

Identify applicants who are individuals with initiative.

Identify applicants who have attributes highlighted by the CanMEDS roles.

Identify applicants who meet all of the requirements of the Post Graduate
Medical Education (PGME).

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team is composed of 3 to 6 individuals,
which includes the program director, pathologists, and residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  
There was a total number of 18 applicants last year in the first iteration.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  
We offered 12 interviews last year in the first iteration.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We look at content, including electives, possible research and publications.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Interest in Pathology/Laboratory Medicine.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  If applicable, relevant exams will be reviewed.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering experience and demonstrating interpersonal skills.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Able to communicate effectively and demonstrate initiative.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Performance within core rotations and elective courses.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Any interest in Pathology/ Laboratory Medicine.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interactions with staff, patients, and/or other members of the health care team.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in participating in possible future research projects.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work in a team environment.   
Collegiality |  Behaviour and attitude while working/interacting with others.   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak and write in English.   
Health advocacy |  Please see "leadership skills" below.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrates some exposure to laboratory medicine.   
Interest in the program |  Shows interest in the program and the location of the program.   
Leadership skills |  Shows initiative and/or possible involvement (including future involvement) in promoting health.   
Professionalism |  Interactions with staff, residents, and/or other members of the laboratory team.   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology Residency Program at Memorial
University is a small program, currently composed of 9 residents (2 in Year 1;
2 in Year 2; 2 in Year 3; 2 in Year 4; and 1 in Year 5).

Rotations occur mainly at the Health Sciences Centre, St. John’s, with some
rotations occurring at St. Clare’s Mercy Hospital, St. John’s. Pediatric
Pathology is also centrally located at the Janeway Hospital which is
accessible from the Health Sciences Centre.  

There are lots of outdoor activities located within and around St. John’s,
including hiking the East Coast Trail or Signal Hill, cross country skiing in
Pippy Park, whale watching, fishing, cycling, and snowshoeing.  There are also
indoor activities for sports, arts, music, farmers market, and great local
restaurants.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Curriculum adheres to the Competence by Design (CBD) model:

Year 1

1 block - Transition to Discipline (Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology)

8 blocks - Foundations of Discipline (Clinical Rotations)

  * 1 block - Pediatrics
  * 1 block - Medical Oncology 
  * 1 block - General Surgery
  * 1 block - General Internal Medicine 
  * 1 block - Gynecology
  * 2 blocks - Selectives (Choice between Surgery (ENT or Urology) or Medicine or Diagnostic Imaging (Radiation Oncology, Dermatology, or Gastroenterology) 
  * 1 block - Elective

4 blocks - Foundations of Discipline (Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology)

Year 2

After successful completion of year 1, residents are promoted to Core of
Discipline. Year 2 provides residents with a range of experiences, including
rotations at affiliated hospitals and continued instruction in the Discipline
of Laboratory Medicine. Residents are assigned to rotations that further
emphasize focused development of grossing skills and microscopy, which
includes but is not limited to the following subspecialties:

(Up to 2 blocks per subspecialty)

Gastrointestinal pathology

Gynecologic pathology

Dermatopathology

Head and Neck pathology

Genitourinary pathology

Breast pathology

Hematopathology

Molecular

Cytopathology





Year 3 to Year 5

In the final three years, residents in the Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology
program embark on a series of rotations in the sub-specialties including
pediatric pathology, cytopathology, neuropathology, molecular pathology and
forensic pathology throughout year 3 - 4. There is a six-month elective period
in the year 4 year, which may be spent in research or further pathology
rotations.

In the fifth year, experience as a hot seat/transition to practice resident in
surgical pathology at each of the affiliated adult hospitals is combined with
sub-specialty experiences. A final month in cytopathology also occurs.



Rural Pathology Experience

A one month rotation at a rural Newfoundland or New Brunswick site is
available to those residents who wish to complete this experience.  The
rotations are offered at James Paton Memorial Hospital (Gander), Western
Memorial Hospital (Corner Brook), and Saint John, New Brunswick.  The duration
is one month. Accommodation is provided.  This is not a compulsory rotation,
but is highly recommended.



Research

A research project is required to be completed during the residency program.
Project ideas are encouraged to be cultivated starting in year 1.  A
Discipline of Laboratory Medicine Resident Research Day takes place each year.
This involves collaboration with clinicians and/or basic scientists in various
sub-specialty areas of pathology.

  
  

Seminars

Residents participate in the Academic Half Day in Pathology, a weekly series
of teaching sessions held throughout the year. Residents are excused from
service duties in order to attend these sessions. Numerous joint clinical and
pathology teaching rounds take place in each of the affiliated hospitals. They
include the following: medical-pathology rounds, surgical pathology rounds,
lymphoma rounds, autopsy rounds, gross neuropathology rounds, hematopathology
rounds, and multidisciplinary tumor board rounds (breast, GI, thoracic,
urology, dermatology, etc.). Residents are expected to attend rounds and to
present cases at rounds including, but may not be limited to, autopsy rounds
and medical-pathology rounds.



* * *

# Training Sites

Training sites:

  * Health Sciences Centre
  * Janeway Children's Health and Rehabilitation Centre
  * St. Clare's Mercy Hospital
  * Office of the Examiner (Forensic Pathology) - Health Sciences Centre
  * Regional Cytology Reference Laboratory (Cytopathology) - L. A. Miller Center



Rural rotation available in:

  * Gander, NL (James Paton Memorial Hospital)
  * Corner Brook, NL (Western Memorial Hospital)
  * Saint John, NB (Saint John Regional Hospital)



Electives are allowed interprovincially at other Canadian universities.

International electives are subject to review by the Diagnostic and Molecular
Pathology Residency Program Committee (RPC).



* * *

# Additional Information

St. John's, the provincial capital of Newfoundland and Labrador, is the oldest
city in North America. It is a small city with a population of about 115,000.
It has a unique and deeply rooted cultural tradition and the province has a
history distinct from the rest of Canada. The old seafaring traditions and
warm friendly attitudes are now gradually blending with the oil & gas industry
and a vibrant tech sector. St. John's has an active artistic and cultural
life, offering some of the finest cuisine in the country and a wonderfully
diverse musical community. There is ready access to the countryside and large
wilderness areas with hiking, fishing, hunting, iceberg tracking, and whale
watching.

* * *

# FAQ

Late applications are not accepted.









* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26363?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26363