#  University of Calgary - Pediatrics - Calgary  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 09, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 12

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Amelie Stritzke  

Address Pediatrics  
Alberta Children's Hospital  
28 Oki Drive NW  
Calgary , Alberta, T3B 6A8  

Work  (403) 955-7822

Work  (403) 955-7123

Websites of Interest [ Department of Pediatrics
](http://www.ucalgary.ca/paed/)  
[ Department of Pediatrics PGME
](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/departments/pediatrics/education-
training/pediatrics-postgraduate-medical-education-pgme/general)  
[ Postgraduate Medical Education ](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/pgme)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Amelie Stritzke

Title: Program Director

Email: Amelie.Stritzke@albertahealthservices.ca

Phone: 403-955-7822

403-955-7123

  

Name: Rachel Chow

Title: Program Administrator

Email: rachel.chow@albertahealthservices.ca

Phone: 403-955-7822

403-955-7123

  

Name: Irenke Payne

Title: Program Administrator

Email: irenke.payne@ahs.ca

Phone: 403-955-7123

  

* * *

# Important Information

At the University of Calgary, we are fully in CBD (Competency by Design) since
July 1, 2021. As such we are still undergoing the same rigorous accreditation
process. Our program leads to full Royal College approval in Pediatrics.
Certiﬁcation for trainees includes the completion of a Royal College
examination. Residents will also be assessed against training milestones
throughout their residency. All milestones (documented within an electronic
portfolio) and the Royal College examination must be successfully completed to
achieve certiﬁcation.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

The MCCQE Part 1 requirement has been removed. (2023)

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Conditionally required

USMLE1

* Document

* USMLE - Step 1

Please provide if completed.

USMLE2-CK

* Document

* USMLE - Step 2 - Clinical Knowledge (CK)

Please provide if completed.

USMLE3

* Document

* USMLE - Step 3

Please provide if completed.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required and should be from faculty members.
Only the first three letters of reference will be reviewed. Reference letters
should be submitted directly through the CaRMS portal by the referee by/before
the stated CaRMs deadline. References should attest to your interest and
inclination to Pediatrics as well as comments on interpersonal skills,
professionalism, and performance.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action required from you.
Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to CaRMS on your
behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Custom Résumé / CV

Our CaRMS Subcommittee will require a Curriculum Vitae with your application.

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

A personal letter of no more than 750 words is required. Please ensure that
this letter is NOT a reiteration of your CV or Pediatric rotations completed,
but rather a personal account of who you are and what makes you unique. In
your letter, please address the following two items.

1) **Please tell us about your path to Pediatrics and how you envision your
future**

2) **Can you please share a significant interaction with either a patient or
someone in your personal life. Please reflect on how it shaped who you are
today.**

Letters will be assessed based upon clarity of writing and quality of the
reflection.  

Optional - will be reviewed

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Photos are not used during the file review process. The photos only helps us
as a post-interview memory aid since we tend to have a large number of
interviewees.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applications are reviewed by faculty and senior residents as assigned and
requested by the Program CaRMS subcommittee. Each file is independently
reviewed through a robust selection process with a minimum of two reviewers
and is given a score based on a review of the references, transcripts, MSPR,
personal letter and the curriculum vitae. This score is then used to determine
who will be offered an interview. Due to the large number of applicants, we
are not able to offer everyone an interview.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held in a virtual format
during the week of **January 20-24, 2025**  inclusive.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will be offered to those
applicants considered most suitable for the residency program based on the
submitted application package.  **Interview offers will be sent out on January
14, 2024 via email.**  
  
Applicants who are not granted an interview will be notified through CaRMS as
soon as possible. The decision of the program CaRMS Subcommittee will be
binding; applicants are asked not to call or email the program to have their
files reconsidered as the file review decisions are final. Should an invite
for interview be declined, the program **DOES NOT** keep a wait list. Instead,
the next candidate on the list based on file review scoring will be contacted.  
  
Candidates should be prepared to be availble for 60 minutes for their
interview and a 15 minutes check-in before the interview. Interviews are
structured in 3 x 20 minute stations and the format is the same for every
applicant. Interviewers include PD / APD, lead and senior residents, and
various faculty. There will be an opportunity for applicants to ask questions
during the interview.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates should have a strong academic record, proven interest in our
specialty, be self-motivated, adaptable, resilient, and have the ability to
see every opportunity as a learning experience. Electives in Pediatrics are
not required but evidence of interest and commitment to Pediatrics is. Final
selection is made through CaRMS.

## Program goals

The vision of our program is to train residents who will be "excellent
pediatricians in any setting". We aim to do this by supporting outstanding
clinical experiences, supportive teacher learner relationships, innovation and
diversity.

We aim to foster and nurture each individual resident's interests and
abilities in all areas of Pediatrics including health advocacy,
reasearch/scholarship and medical education. We have faculty who are skilled
in all areas of Pediatrics and serve as mentors and advisors for residents
interested in all areas whether that be tertiary care based academic work,
research, medical education, or community-based practice in a regional centre.
The graduates of our medium-sized training program go on to General Pediatrics
or Subspeciality Pediatrics in about a 50/50 split.

Some unique features of our program are twice yearly retreats, the scholarly
oversight committee, mandatory and protected research course, mentorship
programs, longitudinal resident as teacher program, teaching senior rotation,
flexible fourth year tailored to the resident's needs, and a state-of-the art
Simulation Lab curriculum with procedural and clinical simulations scheduled
on a monthly basis.

Our medium-sized program, engaged faculty, and residents provide a great
training program for almost every interest and passion. Whatever your
particular calling in Pediatrics may be, we are confident we can help you
thrive as a valued member of our Pediatric Community. Our greater aim is to
train Pediatricians to be of service to our diverse population.

## Selection process goals

A successful applicant for our program is a resilient individual with strong
academic, professional as well as interpersonal skills. Candidates should have
a track record of interest in our specialty, be self-motivated, adaptable and
have the ability to see every opportunity as a learning experience (growth
mindset). We are looking for applicants from all across the country with a
broad range of previous experiences.



## File review process

Review team composition : Our CaRMS Subcommittee is chaired by the Program
Director and is composed of faculty from various disciplines as well as
resident representation from each year. File review is completed by a minimum
of two members of our faculty from various sections, Fellows, and senior
residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 201 - 400  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  evidence of interest in Pediatrics, research, leadership, awards, past work experiences (if applicable), educational experience, other degrees   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  demonstrated interest in Pediatrics with strong clinical evaluations   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  successful completion of required examinations   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  interests, volunteer work, mentorship, hobbies, leadership roles, entrepreneurship   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  projects, key roles/areas, results, conflict management, accountability   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  demonstrated consistant clinical competence with explanations for times when performance was not as expected, strong communication and professionalism   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  your path to Pediatrics and your desired trajectory; demonstrated reflection and resilience along with good communication and conflict management skills   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  positive interactions with patients, families, teams, strong clinical skills, ownership, conflict management, leadership, work ethic, teamwork   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  completed or in progress research/projects, clinical, basic science, medical education, QI/QA   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  consistent strong academic performance   
Other file component(s) |  All components submitted as part of the file are reviewed and scored according to CanMEDS roles as well as interest in discipline and academic achievement. All components of the application file (ie. CV, MSPR, reference documents, etc.) are reviewed looking for "evidence of" the above mentioned features.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Examples for collaborative skills and teamwork within a multidisciplinary environment   
Collegiality |  Ability to interact respectfully and kindly with all members of the interview team from program administrators to members of the interview panel as well as other candidates and examples shared/offered during interview   
Communication skills |  Clarity and quality of expression during interviews with ability to express complex content in a concise manner while demonstrating personal reflection   
Health advocacy |  Evidence of advocacy in the examples shared during the interview   
Interest in the discipline |  Consistency in articulation of interest in the discipline   
Interest in the program |  Express interest and knowledge about our program as relevant to your career aspirations   
Leadership skills |  Evidence of leadership and ownership skills based on examples shared/offered during interview conversations   
Professionalism |  Evidence of professionalism and accountability based on examples shared/offered during interview conversation as well as interactions with program administrators and interview panel   
Scholarly activities |  Evidence of based on examples shared/offered during interview conversation   
Other interview component(s) |  Our interview process is completely separate from our file review process with minimal overlap between faculty who serve as file reviewers and those who do interviews. Interviews are scored both on content (ie. depth of reflection, significance of examples, etc.) as well as presentation (ie clarity of communication). Questions are designed to assess both intrinsic and non-intrinsic CanMEDS roles and case-based scenarios are used whenever possible. We are also looking for individuals who are interested in teaching opportunities.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**  RPC VISION: "Excellent Pediatricians in any setting"** **RPC MISSION: We
aim to do this by fostering outstanding learning experiences, supportive
teacher-learner relationships, innovation and diversity** The vision of our
program is to train residents who will be "excellent pediatricians in any
setting". We aim to do this by supporting outstanding clinical experiences,
supportive teacher learner relationships, innovation and diversity. We aim to
foster and nurture each individual resident's interests and abilities in all
areas of Pediatrics including health advocacy, research/scholarship and
medical education. We have faculty who are skilled in all areas of Pediatrics
and can serve as mentors and advisors for residents interested in all areas
whether that be tertiary care based academic work, research, medical
education, or community-based practice in a regional centre. The graduates of
our medium-sized training program go on to General Pediatrics or Subspeciality
Pediatrics in about a 50/50 split.  Our medium-sized program, engaged faculty,
and residents provide a great training program for almost every interest and
passion. Whatever your particular calling in Pediatrics may be, we are
confident we can help you thrive as a valued member of our Pediatric
Community. Our greater aim is to train Pediatricians to be of service to our
diverse population.   **1\. Simulation Program** We have a state-of-the-art
simulation lab with dedicated simulation facilities and a world-renowned
KidSIM program that offers simulation based learning and courses for all
levels of learners. Simulation is integrated into resident education with
monthly simulation-based Academic half days covering a variety of clinical
scenarios and procedural skills.  All simulation amenable EPAs are covered in
our ProSkills series which is constantly being enhanced for learner needs.
**2\. Out-of-town Regional/Small urban experiences** Many outlying centres in
Alberta welcome residents and all residents must participate in at least one
regional training site rotation during the Core of Discipline stage. These
include both urban and rural regional hospitals within the province. The DLRI
(Distributed Learning and Rural Initiatives) provides additional funding
supports. Electives in other regional or rural jurisdictions are encouraged as
long as they meet the learning objectives for the program and Royal College
certification. **3\. Resident Retreats & Well-Being** Two retreats are held
annually, one in the city in the Fall and the other outside of the city in the
Spring. The Fall retreat is usually focused on advocacy and community service
while the Spring retreat is focused on teambuilding and resident wellness.
These retreats provide a break from the rigors of residency while providing an
alternate learning opportunity. The retreats are considered mandatory events
and residents are protected from their usual clinical and administrative
duties during this time. We also have two dedicated faculty Wellness advocates
and an active Resident Wellness Committee that puts together additional
wellness events throughout the year.  **4\. Formative Exams: OSCEs, OHP
(Observed History and Physical), and CPPD (Canadian Pediatric Program
Director's) exams** There are several formative exams during each of the
residency years to support clinical learning and preparation for the Royal
College Certifying examinations. OSCEs are held twice a year, two observed
OHPs per year, ABP exam in the spring for the cohort preparing to take the
Royal College exam, and the CPPD exams in the fall and spring of each year.
**5\. Longitudinal Clinic** Starting in PGY2 year, all residents are paired
with a Community Pediatrician for a Longitudinal Clinic. The resident will
attend a full day clinic (minimum 5 days per year) where they will see new
consultations and provide ongoing follow-up for these patients. The resident
will continue with this clinic throughout the remainder of their training.
This clinic allows residents to develop long term relationships with both
Pediatric patients and their community preceptor.  **6\. Research and Quality
Improvement Projects** In the Foundations of Discipline stage there is a
dedicated research block designed to provide the foundation for scholarly
projects in terms of research methodology. Each resident will also be assigned
to a Scholarly Oversight Committee faculty member, who will support residents
in designing feasible projects, identifying preceptors/supervisors, monitoring
progress and assisting residents in achieving the goal of a completed
scholarly project during their training. This project may be in clinical QI/QA
or educational areas. The program supports residents who are presenting their
research at conferences. All residents are expected to present their final
research findings at Resident Research Day. **7\. Fourth Year Transition to
Practice** In the Transition to Practice stage residents have the flexibility
to tailor their curriculum to make up for missing core experiences or go more
in-depth to a particular area of interest that best fits with their individual
learning needs and ultimate career goals.  **8\. Social Pediatrics** All
residents complete a Social Pediatrics rotation, during which residents are
attending child abuse consultations and reviews, home assessments and follow-
ups, school assessments, refugee clinic and outreach to First Nations
communities, among other opportunities. Impact and care of socially
disadvantaged patients are covered in this experience.  Residents are
requested complete a written reflection at the conclusion of this block.
**9\. Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion** Our program has dedicated ongoing
efforts in maintaining an inclusive and respectful environment for all. With
support of the PGME and University of Calgary, we have been successful in
securing funds to implement First Nations simulations and outreach clinics in
our curriculum.  The University of Calgary also provides funding supports for
learning opportunities in the Northwest, Yukon, Nunavit territories. **10\.
Mentorship Groups** All residents participate in a mentorship group that is
led by a faculty member and includes residents from various years in the
program. These groups meet as best suits their needs and desires of each
particular group. Mentorship groups allow for near-peer and faculty led
mentoring in an informal, small group and collegial atmosphere.  **11\.
Procedural Skills Course** There is a Procedural Skills Curriculum that is
scheduled as a regular component of our Academic Half-day. Residents are
provided with learning resources (handouts, videos, etc.) ahead of time
describing the techniques of the procedures to be practiced, and during the
session preceptors facilitate procedural skills training using task trainers.
NRP and PALS skills practice sessions are also included as part of this
course. Our goal is for residents to develop greater confidence and sense of
self-efficacy with these skills, with the intent that this will then translate
into more clinical procedural skills exposure as well. **12\. Residents as
Teachers Longitudinal Curriculum and Med Ed Scholarly Opportunities  ** We
have established a program to develop our Residents as Teachers. This program
includes both a longitudinal Resident as Teacher curriculum as well as bedside
coaching and feedback for residents to develop their teaching skills. This
curriculum culminates in the Teaching Senior rotation. Residents also have the
opportunity to engage in scholarly work related to medical education through
the support and guidance of PGME Residents Education Scholars Program (RESP).
1**3\. Resident Well-Being and Professional Development Advocate** We have two
dedicated faculty members who serve as the Resident Well-Being and
Professional Development advocate for our program. These faculty members
provide an "at arms-length to the program" contact point for any residents
experiencing challenges related to wellness or well-being. They also act as
bridge between our program and the various wellness resources and services
offered by our PGME as well as local medical associations. Our Resident
Wellness Committee puts together additional wellness events throughout the
year.  
---  
  
* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**RPC VISION: Excellent pediatricians in any setting**

**RPC MISSION: We aim to do this by fostering outstanding learning
experiences, supportive teacher-learner relationships, innovation and
diversity.  **

Our goal is to have residents emerge from the program with the necessary
skills and knowledge to practice General Pediatrics in any setting or to have
a base upon which they can further their education by training in Subspecialty
areas or academic pursuits.

**Program Description  **

Since July 1, 2021, our program is now completely in the Competence By Design
(CBD) curriculum. The 4 stages of CBD are mapped over 4 years. Residents may
choose to enter a Subspecialty CaRMS process in their third year or aim to
practice in General Pediatrics after completing the program. The Transition to
Discipline (TTD) and Foundations (FOD) in first year are designed to provide a
broad exposure to General Pediatrics and include a Research Methodology Course
(RMC) block to develop those fundamental skills early. The Core of Discipline
(COD) in second and third years provides exposure to career options by
allowing residents to explore General Pediatrics or Subspecialties in greater
depth and consolidate knowledge acquired during rotations in addition to
electives. The Transition to Practice (TTP) in 4th year has greater
flexibility and opportunity to individualize training according to a
resident's need or interests.

Our Academic half-day curriculum spans over 3 years and ensures coverage of
all core Pediatric objectives as set out by the RCPSC, as well as providing
training in other CanMEDS roles, including Health Advocate, Communicator and
Collaborator.

Note: that the sequence of rotations will vary in each year for each resident
to balance out the number of residents in each rotation and maximize the
learning opportunities for all. PGY2-4 residents may submit a maximum of 3
scheduling requests per year. PGY1 residents may choose from curriculum
options.  

**Time-off/Holiday Allowances  **

Please refer to the PARA Collective Agreement available online for additional
information for all medical trainees in Alberta.

All residents get 20-days in total for vacation. 2 weeks are built into the
master rotation schedule and the remaining days are booked by residents and
taken throughout the year.

There are 4 days of Flex/Float, 5 Special Leave days, in addition to a total
of 20 vacation days listed above.

There are 5 conference days that may be used for travel time and conference
attendance.

Holiday break of 6-days vacation, either over Christmas or New Years, that
does not count against the vacation allotment

________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

**POST-GRADUATE PEDIATRIC MEDICAL EDUCATION PROGRAM**

Residency Training Experiences (RTE) as of July 2024  

**TRANSITION TO DISCIPLINE and FOUNDATIONS (PGY1)** |  **# Blocks**  
---|---  
**TRAINING EXPERIENCES (PGY-1)
13**  
Clinical Teaching Unit (CTU) - Junior Teams |  3  
Neonatology Intensive Care Unit (NICU) Level II |  1  
Research Methods Course |  1  
Community Pediatrics |  2  
Pediatric Surgery |  1  
Pediatric Respiratory Medicine |  1  
Pediatric Gastroenterology |  1  
Pediatric Infectious Diseases |  1  
Pediatric Emergency Medicine |  1  
Normal Newborns at PLC |  0.5  
Vacation (2 weeks paired with 0.5 NNB block and 2 weeks taken out of rotations, max 1 week off per 4 week rotation) |  0.5 _ _  
  
  

|  **CORE  (PGY-2)/(PGY-3)  ** |  **# Blocks**  
---|---  
**Training Experiences (PGY-2)
13**  
Clinical Teaching Unit (CTU) Foundation 4 |  1  
Developmental Pediatrics |  1  
Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) |  2  
Neonatology Intensive Care Unit (NICU) Level III** |  1  
Pediatric Cardiology |  1  
Pediatric Oncology |  1  
Pediatric Endocrinology |  1  
Pediatric Nephrology |  1  
Pediatric Neurology |  1  
Elective |  2  
Research |  0.5  
Vacation (2 weeks paired with research block and 2 weeks taken out of rotations, max 1 week per rotation) |  0.5    
Longitudinal Clinic 1 day every other block on average |  Longitudinal experience  
****Longitudinal Call for NICU after first Level III NICU** |    
  
  

**CORE  (PGY-2)/(PGY-3)  ** |  **# Blocks**  
---|---  
**Training Experiences (PGY-3)
13**  
Clinical Teaching Unit (CTU) - Core 1 and 2 |  2  
Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) |  1  
Neonatology Intensive Care Unit (NICU) Level III** |  1  
Pediatric Emergency Medicine |  1  
Research (could be replaced by Elective if research complete) |  0.5  
Junior Consultant (PLC or other small urban center) |  1  
Neonatology Intensive Care Unit (NICU) Level II at RGH or PLC |  1  
Adolescent Medicine |  1  
Social Pediatrics |  1  
Elective |  1.5  
Teaching Senior (paired with vacation) |  0.5  
Selective |  1  
Vacation (2 weeks paired with Teaching Sr block and 2 weeks taken out of rotations, max 1 week per 4 week rotation) |  0.5    
Longitudinal Clinic 1 day every other block on average |  Longitudinal experience  
****Longitudinal Call for NICU after first Level III NICU** |    
  
** **

**Transition to Practice (PGY-4)  ** |  **# Blocks**  
---|---  
**  TRAINING EXPERIENCES (PGY-4)
13**  
Community Pediatrics (mandatory small urban center location) |  1  
Palliative Care |  1  
Clinical Teaching Unit (CTU) TTP 1 and 2 |  2  
PEM |  1  
NICU |  1  
Teaching Senior (paired with vacation) |  0.5  
Selective TTP or Complex Care |  1  
Elective |  3  
Ambulatory |  2  
Vacation (2 weeks paired with Teaching Sr block and 2 weeks taken out of rotations, max 1 week per rotation) |  0.5  
Longitudinal Clinic 1 day every other block on average |  Longitudinal experience  
****Longitudinal Call for NICU after first Level III NICU** |    
  
 **Note** : The CORE STAGE experiences should be viewed as a continuum (mainly
encompassed within the PGY2/PGY3 years) with most of the rotations and
electives having the potential to take place in either years. Exceptions are
CTU, NICU and PICU (have to go in particular order), Junior Consultant and
Small Urban rotations to be in second half of CORE stage.

**Note:** Vacation allotments are per appointment year (i.e. PGY-1) even
though depicted here according to CBD Stage. This depiction by stage is for
planning purposes only. Actual vacations will be allotted according to
academic year and will be scheduled as such with input from the resident
during master schedule planning.

**U of C MANDATORY SUBSPECIALITIES** |  **SELECTIVES**  
---|---  
Pediatric Surgery |  1 block available in CORE  
Developmental Pediatrics |     
Adolescent Medicine |  Child Psychiatry/Mental Health  
Pediatric Cardiology |  Genetics/Metabolic  
Pediatric Respiratory Medicine |  Hematology   
Pediatric Gastroenterology |  Allergy/Immunology  
Pediatric Infectious Diseases |  Rheumatology  
Pediatric Oncology |  Complex Care  
Pediatric Endocrinology |  *max 2 blocks/subspecialty  
Pediatric Nephrology |  *max 3 blocks research  
Pediatric Neurology |  ** **  
Social Pediatrics |     
Palliative Care |     
** ** |     
**  ELECTIVES** |  ** **  
3.5 blocks available in CORE |    
3-3.5 blocks available in Transition to Practice |    
  
**Scholarly Activity**

Completion of a scholarly project is mandatory in all RCPSC programs in
Pediatrics. One block is set aside in first year to teach research skills and
methodology and begin a research project. Each resident has a faculty
preceptor for their research project. There is an annual Resident Research Day
when all residents present their research to date, either in progress or
complete. Residents are encouraged and supported to present their research at
local or national meetings. In the remaining years of the program residents
may have further dedicated research blocks to complete their projects.

Each resident will be assigned to a Scholarly Oversight Committee faculty
member. This committee will support residents in designing feasible projects,
identifying preceptors/supervisors, monitoring progress and ensuring adherence
to the timelines for completion to assist all residents in achieving the goal
of a completed and relevant body of work.



**Resident Complement**  
  
2024-2025 General Pediatric Post-Graduate Trainees

We have **52 General Pediatric Residents**

  *   8 - Internationally trained graduates
  * 44 - Canadian trained graduates

A total of**  71 subspecialty residents and fellows  
**

Our Subspecialty program include Endocrinology, Developmental Medicine,
Gastroenterology, Hematology/Oncology, Infection Diseases, KidSIMulation,
Medical Genetics, Neonatal/Perinatal, Nephrology, Neurology, Pediatric
Emergency Medicine, Pediatric Hospital Medicine, and Respirology.

* * *

# Training Sites

**General Description**

The Pediatric Residency Program at the University of Calgary is located at the
Alberta Children's Hospital with affiliated facilities at Foothills Medical
Centre (FMC), Peter Lougheed Centre (PLC), Rockyview General Hospital (RGH),
and the South Health Campus (SHC). There are also rotations in community
Pediatric offices within Calgary and smaller urban centers such as Lethbridge,
Red Deer, and Medicine Hat.

**Alberta Children's Hospital (ACH)**

The Alberta Children's Hospital is a state-of-the-art facility which is the
tertiary care centre for southern Alberta, southwestern Saskatchewan and
southeastern British Columbia.  It is the only hospital in Southern Alberta
devoted to the care of children and the only designated pediatric trauma
center in Southern Alberta.  The Emergency Department sees over 50,000
patients annually and clinics have over 280,000 outpatient visits per year.
There are 15 beds in the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit, 157 inpatient beds, 8
operating rooms, and one special procedures room.  The hospital also houses
the Gordon Townsend School for children with special needs and the Rotary
Flames House.

**Peter Lougheed Centre (PLC)**

The PLC is a general community hospital that includes a level II neonatal
intensive care unit (NICU) staffed by neonatologists. There is also a Normal
Newborn nursery and general pediatric ward which are both staffed by general
pediatricians.

**Rockyview General Hospital (RGH)**

This is a general community hospital with a Normal Newborn nursery and a Level
II NICU staffed by neonatologists and general pediatricians.

**Foothills Medical Centre (FMC)**

This is the site of the level III NICU which is the tertiary level referral
centre for extremely pre-term and sickest infants in Southern Alberta,
southwestern Saskatchewan and southeastern British Columbia. The Southern
Alberta Neonatal Transport Service (SANTS) transports the sickest infants in
Southern Alberta are transported to this NICU.  This site also includes
Maternal Fetal Medicine (MFM) consultations for high-risk pregnancies.

**Child Development Centre (CDC)**

The Child Development Centre, which is adjacent to the Alberta Chidren's
Hosptial, houses the Developmental and Child Abuse Clinics. This state of the
art centre officially opened October 9, 2007.

**Small Urban Centers**

Rural Pediatric Education is at the forefront of our Provincial Government's
plans to increase community pediatricians in rural settings.

Red Deer, Lethbridge and Medicine Hat are small centers with population of
approximately 100,000 with community pediatricians and general hospitals with
pediatric wards and level II NICUs. All are located within 1.5 to 3 hours
drive from Calgary. Residents will work in both community offices and the
hospitals. When a resident has a mandatory rotation in one of these centers,
accommodation will be provided at no cost to the resident.

The South Health Campus (SHC)

The South Health Campus is a general hospital in the South of Calgary. There
is a level II NICU and Newborn Nursery, pediatric emergency as well as
specialized and general pediatrics clinics located at this site.

* * *

# Additional Information

**About Calgary**

Nestled in the Foothills of Canada's Rocky Mountains, is Calgary, "Heart of
the New West". A place where visitors come to explore the heritage of the
Canadian West. This safe, clean and vibrant city offers the best of all
worlds: a cosmopolitan city of over 1 million people and breathtaking outdoor
adventure in pristine wilderness. Close proximity to the Canadian Rockies
provides a year round playground right at your back door.

In addition, Calgary offers many cultural, sporting and outdoor activities.

http://www.tourismcalgary.com/



**Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada:  Competence by Design
(CBD) ****[Competence by Design
(royalcollege.ca)](https://www.royalcollege.ca/ca/en/cbd.html)**

CBD is a hybrid CBME model designed to work within the Canadian context, and
combines a time-based and an outcomes-based approach to learning. It reviews
the design, implementation, assessment and evaluation of each specialty
program across Canada’s 17 medical universities, using CanMEDS 2015 as an
organizing framework of competencies.

In CBD, progression of competence occurs within a structured but flexible
curriculum consisting of five core components. More specifically, in a
competency-based approach, competencies required for practice form a framework
and are accordingly organized into a progressive sequence. Promoting resident
progression forms the basis for the design of all curricular elements:
learning experiences that are tailored to the acquisition of competencies,
instruction that is competency-focused and assessment that is programmatic in
approach.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

* * *

# FAQ

Q: Can I send more than three references?

A: NO- The Reviewers will only look at the first three references.



Q Is a CV mandatory?

A: YES



Q: Do all applicants get an interview?

A:  NO - Due to the large number of applicants there is a screening process
and not all applicants are offered an interview.



Q:  If I do not receive an invite to interview, can I ask for my file to be
reviewed?

A:  NO - Each file is initially reviewed by at least 2 reviewers.  File review
scores are considered set when interview offers are made.



Q:  Can I ask that my name be placed on a wait list?

A:  NO - We do not keep a wait list.  Alternatively, if a candidate declines
their interview offer then the next candidate on the ranking list will be
offered.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26724?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26724