#  McMaster University - Pediatrics - Waterloo  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Mohammad Zubairi  

Address Program Director  
McMaster University  
1280 Main Street West  
Hamilton, Ontario  

905-525-9140 ext 28689

Websites of Interest [ Department Website
](https://pediatrics.healthsci.mcmaster.ca/education/postgraduate/residency/residency-
macpeds/#tab-content-contact-us)  
[ McMaster PGME - PGY1 entry programs
](https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/)  
[ McMaster PGME ](https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/)  
[ MacPeds CBME website ](https://sites.google.com/view/cbme-macpeds/home)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Lisa Brown

Title: Regional Education Leader- Waterloo

Email: lisa.brown@medportal.ca

  

Name: Leeza Riediger

Title: Senior Education Program Associate- Waterloo

Email: riedigl@mcmaster.ca

Phone: 519-885-5426 ext 21137

  

Name: Dr. Mohammad Zubairi

Title: Program Director

Email: zubairm@mcmaster.ca

Phone: 905-525-9140 ext.28023

  

Name: Kaitlin Auld

Title: Senior Education Program Associate

Email: peded@mcmaster.ca

  

Name: Lacey Ferretti

Title: Senior Education Program Associate

Email: peded@mcmaster.ca

  

Name: Dr. Ranu Malhi

Title: Interim Associate Program Director

Email: malhir1@mcmaster.ca

  

Name: Sharon Dhillon

Title: Senior Education Program Associate

Email: peded@mcmaster.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/).  It is important to review the
requirements carefully.

To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit:
<https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/>

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

All candidates applying to the Waterloo stream of McMaster Pediatrics program
MUST also apply to the Hamilton stream of McMaster Pediatrics program to
ensure file is appropriately reviewed, as this is an integrated program.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required, any additional letters will not be
considered. Please note the references should be able to speak to your
character and qualities that make you a good pediatric resident, including
specific examples. They do not all have to be from a pediatrician, however
should be from qualified specialists/physicians rather than residents, perhaps
incorporating resident input. Recency of the letter will be taken into account
and only those dated in the past 2 years will be accepted. Any undated
references will not be considered.



Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account;
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).



Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

An autobiographical letter is required (maximum 750 words) describing:

  * Why are you considering a career in pediatrics and what experiences have led you to this choice?  
  * What personal qualities do you feel are critical to the practice of pediatrics and how do these compare to your own qualities? 
  * What challenges do you anticipate in residency and how will you plan to overcome these?
  * How does McMaster's Waterloo program specifically fit with your learning and professional goals?
  * Are there important things that we should know about you in order to fairly consider your application? 

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Photographs are used as a memory aid only.

Custom Résumé / CV

Optional - will be reviewed

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed.

Self-identification questionnaire

Information gathered from the self-identification questionnaire will be used
to understand the diversity of our applicant pool, and to ensure that equity-
seeking groups are not being disadvantaged in our recruitment process.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Reference letters from the institution/discipline will not be required for
consideration of interview.



* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: Dates:  
  

  * **February 3, 2025**

  
  
**Details regarding interview dates:  **  
  
Interviews will be offered to those applicants considered most suitable for
the residency program based on the submitted package. See the "Selection
Criteria" section for more details. Our program will notify all applicants of
their status as: selected to interview, on waitlist for an interview, not
selected for an interview. Applicants on the waitlist will be notified if and
when interview spaces become available.  
  
**An email notification of interview status will be sent on Monday January 13,
2025 and CaRMS online updated shortly thereafter.  
  
**  
  
The interview date for Canadian Medical Graduates is**  February 3, 2025.**  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will consist of a group
program information session as well as individual interviews in the Multiple
Mini Interview (MMI) format. The group program information session will orient
candidates to our program and provide an opportunity to ask questions and
interact with current residents. The MMIs will consist of a series of short
interview stations with each station focused on a particular topic or
scenario. Generally, each MMI station will consist of 2 interviewers. The
interviewers for the MMI's consist of faculty members, current pediatric
residents and members of the hospital family advisory committee. Each station
will be approximately 8 minutes long. The interview process may take up to
four hours of a candidate's time and will be virtual via zoom.  
  
Candidates will then interview with the Waterloo campus for the afternoon,
which will include an orientation to the Waterloo program and an individual
interview. There will be opportunities to interact with residents and staff in
both Hamilton and Waterloo. The entire process may take up to nine hours of a
candidate's time. Interviews will be held virtually.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Residents should have an interest in consultative pediatrics with a special
emphasis on a community-based practice. As a community-based program within a
mid-sized program, there are significant opportunities for early independence
in the program and strong mentorship bonds between residents and staff. The
strong longitudinal exposure to both Pediatric and Neonatal medicine, as well
as the abundance of Ambulatory Care experiences, distinguishes the Waterloo
program.

The Waterloo program is fully integrated with the Hamilton site of the
McMaster Pediatrics program, with ongoing opportunities for residents and
faculty of each site to work and learn together. Such collaboration allows
residents a greater pool of expertise and experiences from which to draw in
order to tailor their training to their individual interests and needs.
Residents will benefit from having their sub-specialty training take place at
the main campus in Hamilton. Training within the Waterloo regional site of the
McMaster program will provide the resident with experiences in a variety of
community settings, while maintaining strong connections to the academic
environment. **With this in mind, applicants MUST apply to both the main
Hamilton Campus and the Waterloo campus to be considered for an interview for
the Waterloo program**. Due to the nature of this program it is STRONGLY
RECOMMENDED that the residents have access to a car.

## Program goals

To train residents to become expert clinicians in the care of children, with
an emphasis on community-based consulting pediatrics. Our residents will
demonstrate exceptional skills in education, communication, leadership and
collaboration. We also place a significant emphasis on teamwork.

The McMaster Pediatrics Waterloo program celebrates diversity, and is
committed to creating an inclusive environment for all learners.

  
  

## Selection process goals

  1. Identify applicants who have a demonstrated interest in pediatrics and those who will develop into excellent pediatricians. 
  2. Identify applicants who are active and engaged learners, and who work well in multi- disciplinary environments. 
  3. Identify applicants who show skill and empathy in the care of children and their families, as well as their social contexts. 
  4. Identify applicants who demonstrate a growth mindset and show potential in becoming innovators in research, advocacy and education. 
  5. Identify and support the training of applicants who identify as Black, Indigenous, or members of other racialized groups, and others who experience systemic oppression such as 2SLGBTQIA+ people, people living with disabilities, and other equity-deserving and underrepresented groups. 

## File review process

Review team composition : Our file review team is composed of the Program
Director, Lead Resident, pediatric faculty members and pediatric residents.
Applications will also be reviewed via the Hamilton stream selection process.  

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We evaluate content including scholarly work, advocacy, medical education, leadership, community involvement, and electives as well as other methods of demonstrating interest/commitment to pediatrics.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Clinical rotations, particularly in pediatrics or related disciplines.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Community involvement, advocacy, leadership and personal interests.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Holds leadership position in student or community organizations.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Professionalism, interpersonal skills and academic aptitude.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in a community-based pediatrics training program and location.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Professionalism and interpersonal skills, demonstrated interest in pediatrics.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Shows potential and interest in research and other scholarly work.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We recognize the restrictions that the COVID-19 pandemic placed on many
candidates in terms of limited opportunities to travel or engage in external
electives and acknowledge this during our selection process.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  
Other :  We conduct Multiple Mini Interviews (MMI) including some situational
stations and some stations reflecting on personal attributes. Each station is
approximately 8 minutes and involves 2 interviewers. This is in addition to a
program information session, and question and answer session with program
representatives.  
  
In addition we have a Waterloo specific panel style interview with multiple
interviewers and a few questions to get to know you better as well as your
specific interest in our site.  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Proven ability to work and provide high-quality patient care in a multi-disciplinary environment.   
Collegiality |  Demonstrates ability to navigate interprofessional conflict and interactions respectfully.   
Communication skills |  Oral and written abilities in English.   
Health advocacy |  Understanding of advocacy principles and their application to clinical environment and broader community.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrates interest in the care of children and their families.   
Interest in the program |  Interest in training in a community-based program in Southern Ontario, knowledge/interest in our program.   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrates skills in organization, team management and/or conflict resolution.   
Professionalism |  Correspondence and interactions with staff, residents, and administrative staff.   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component.   
Other interview component(s) |  Learner self-assessment, specifically demonstrates the ability to reflect on past experiences and learn from them.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Welcome to the McMaster University Pediatric Residency Program in Waterloo!
The program is committed to providing exceptional, flexible training in
clinical pediatrics, advocacy, scholarly work and education. Residents benefit
from our faculty's collegial approach and broad expertise, enabling trainees
to thrive as they prepare for a career in pediatric medicine or its
subspecialties. The McMaster Pediatric Residency Program accepts 10-12
residents per year from various entry streams - including one from the
Waterloo stream.

The Waterloo program offers the unique experience of a combined academic
tertiary residency program with that of a community-based program. While at
McMaster Children's Hospital (MCH), residents obtain exposure to the diagnosis
and management of a diverse spectrum of disease through subspecialty and
critical care rotations. Residents will develop relationships with academic
faculty at MCH, including opportunities for clinical and scholarly mentorship.
McMaster University is the home of many of the world experts in evidence-based
medicine. Residents in the training program can expect to receive outstanding
formal training and critical appraisal skills through CTU rounds, Academic
Half Day, Journal Clubs, subspecialty teaching rounds, and our unique ward-
teaching schedule. Through their clinical rotations, residents learn to use
literature in daily management of patients giving them life long learning
skills that will make them better physicians.

The McMaster Children’s Hospital serves a population of over 2.3 million
people, the second largest catchment area in Ontario. All pediatric
subspecialties are represented within our Department of Pediatrics, with a
wide variety of expertise amongst faculty.  Residents obtain exposure to a
diverse spectrum of diseases from common problems encountered in general
pediatrics, all subspecialties and referrals from surrounding communities.

Residents selected for the Waterloo program will also spend a portion of their
training at Grand River Hospital (GRH), and surrounding teaching sites in the
cities of Kitchener and Waterloo. At GRH, residents will have longitudinal
exposure to neonatal resuscitation and intensive care, as well as general
pediatric issues both in an inpatient and ambulatory setting. Residents
receive an excellent foundation in pediatrics that will prepare them for any
career they may eventually choose.

Residents in the Waterloo program will have the opportunity for earlier
independence and leadership, both in the clinical realm and beyond. Residents
play a pivotal role in continuing to improve and vitalize the program. Their
opinions are highly valued and we depend on resident involvement to keep the
program evolving, and to maintain high morale and pride amongst the residents.
Being a small program with one one resident per year, we are easily able to
adapt to resident input.

Residents will be a part of a program known for its innovation and leadership
in educational scholarship. The Waterloo region is also home to the Waterloo
Regional Campus branch of the undergraduate medical program, as well as a
strong family medicine residency program. As such, pediatric residents have
many opportunities for teaching, including formal clinical skills to the
undergraduate class, as well as for clinical clerks and family medicine
residents.

Residents benefit from career counseling and transition to practice curriculum
throughout all years of training, twice annual resident retreats including an
overnight retreat, and multiple social and wellness activities throughout the
year. We have a robust wellness curriculum with monthly 'treats & talks
sessions' facilitated by a Resident Affairs counselor, a unique Resident
Support Network and Resident council.  Residents have multiple opportunities
in the program to participate in teaching activities, scholarly projects,
advocacy, committee work, leadership roles, curriculum development and
resident selection. Waterloo residents are fully integrated with the Hamilton
site, and have access to all supports provided both in Hamilton and Waterloo.

There are strong research faculty and supports both in Hamilton and Waterloo
committed to promoting resident scholarly activities. The residency research
committee helps to facilitate resident research and scholarly projects and the
annual McMaster Child Health research day. There is competitive funding
available for resident projects through the Pediatric Residency Program and
the Postgraduate Office. There is available protected time for research during
the residency program. Funding for annual conferences and learning
opportunities is available through the program.

The structure of the 4-year program is designed to facilitate graduated
responsibility and flexibility in training. As with all Pediatrics programs
across Canada, we launched our Competency Based Curriculum formally in July
2021. Our program allows for ample elective and selective time throughout the
program, allowing residents to address individual learning objectives and
prepare themselves for their selected career choice.  







* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Pediatric Training Program: Curriculum**

The Pediatric Residency Program is a fully accredited program focusing on
providing excellent training in all aspects of pediatrics so that trainees may
pursue either community consulting pediatrics or a pediatric subspecialty.

The program provides broad-based clinical and academic training in pediatrics
with the goal of creating the foundation required for practice of general and
subspecialty pediatrics. The program competencies are developed around the 7
CanMEDS roles. Annual elective rotations are available after the first year of
training.

The work environment is friendly and supportive. The program has a well-
established Academic Coach system, competence committee and a variety of
mentorship programs to support residents.





**Transition to Discipline ~ 3 blocks  **

Multiweek orientation 'bootcamp' will provide residents with multiple learning
opportunities and a supported transition to residency including:

  * Orientation to program, clinical environment, and McMaster University
  * Clinical orientation and opportunity to practice pediatric history-taking & physical examination skills
  * Recognition and management of common pediatric problems, newborn examination and key foundational clinical skills
  * Opportunities to network and get to know peers, other residents and faculty in relaxed, collegial setting

 Introduction to Competency Based Medical Education (CBME) including growth
mindset and competence committee, and unique aspects of the program

  * Neonatal Resuscitation Program (NRP)
  * Pediatric Advanced Life Support Program (PALS)

 Clinical rotations during this stage of training include:

  * Clinical Teaching Unit (CTU) at Grand River Hospital
  * An introduction to a pediatric subspecialty - clinics and inpatient exposure
  * Some night or weekend day call shifts on CTU



**Foundations of Training ~10-11 blocks**



This stage of training will include clinical rotations in the following areas:

  * Clinical Teaching Unit (CTU) at McMaster Children's Hospital / Grand River Hospital
  * Level II Nursery at Grand River Hospital
  * Pediatric Emergency Medicine at McMaster Children's Hospital
  * Pediatric Subspecialties including outpatient clinics and inpatients 
    * Pediatric Neurology (4 weeks) 
    * Pediatric Rheumatology (2 weeks) 
    * Pediatric Infectious Diseases (2 weeks) 
    * Pediatric Hematology/Oncology (4 weeks)
  * Pediatric General Surgery (2 weeks)
  * Introduction to Pediatric Critical Care and Neonatal Intensive Care (2 weeks)
  * Social Pediatrics with focus on structural/social determinants of health and advocacy skill development
  * Junior Night float blocks

Curriculum and educational opportunities include:

  * Research/Scholarly Project bootcamp – research methodology and development of a proposal for a scholarly project
  * Complex care skills workshop
  * Communication skills workshop
  * Critical appraisal, Quality Improvement and Patient Safety curriculum 
  * Simulation training focused on procedural and clinical skills

**Core of Discipline ~30 blocks**



This is a senior resident stage, with increasing patient care and teaching
responsibility on the general pediatric ward, consulting the the Emergency
Department, and integrating critical care exposure. This is a time to
consolidate the trainee's general pediatric experience with opportunity for
more subspecialty rotations as well as significant community pediatrics time
and generous elective time, planned in collaboration with the resident's
academic coach to meet individual learning goals.

Clinical rotations during this stage of training include:

  * Pediatric Critical Care Medicine (8 weeks total)
  * Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (Level III Nursery) (4 weeks total, with longitudinal Level II Nursery exposure at Grand River Hospital)
  * Pediatric Emergency Medicine (4 weeks)
  * Clinical Teaching Unit (CTU) in Senior Resident role (longitudinal at Grand River Hospital)
  * Anesthesia (2 weeks)
  * Pediatric mental health (2-4 weeks)
  * Pediatric Subspecialties
    * Adolescent medicine (4 weeks)
    * Pediatric Cardiology (4 weeks)
    * Community Developmental Pediatrics (4 weeks)
    * Pediatric Endocrinology (4 weeks)
    * Pediatric Gastroenterology (4 weeks)
    * Genetics/Metabolics (2-4 weeks)
    * Child Maltreatment (4 weeks)
    * Pediatric Nephrology (4 weeks)
    * Pediatric Neurology (4 weeks)
    * Pediatric Respirology (4 weeks)
    * Clinical allergy/immunology (2 weeks)
    * Infectious Diseases (2 weeks)
  * Senior Night float in 2 week blocks in both CTU and Subspecialty/Critical Care
  * Electives (2-3 blocks)
  * Integrated Pediatrics - opportunities in Waterloo including general pediatrics CTU, Level II nursery, general pediatric outpatient clinics, Grand River Hospital ambulatory clinics (Diabetes clinic, Cystic Fibrosis clinic, Eating Disorder clinic, Newcomer Health clinic, and other outpatient specialty clinics)

Learning and other clinical activities throughout this stage of training:

  * Support for completion of scholarly project
  * Resident Continuity clinic in community pediatrics setting
  * Teaching skills and multiple opportunities to engage in teaching junior learners and peers
  * Neonatal and Pediatric procedural skills workshops 
  * Complex care skills workshops 
  * Communication skills workshops 
  * Critical appraisal, Quality Improvement and Patient Safety curriculum 
  * Simulation Training focused on procedural and clinical skills



**Transition to Practice (TTP) stage ~7 blocks**

Clinical rotations include:

  * Clinical Teaching Unit (CTU) - Grand River Hospital, in role of Junior Attending
  * Quality of Life and Advanced Care team (Pediatric Palliative Care) 
  * Pediatric Complex Care
  * Level II Nursery
  * Senior Night Float in 2-week blocks in both CTU and Subspecialty/Critical Care
  * Electives
  * Integrated Pediatrics - selective opportunities in Waterloo including Grand River Hospital ambulatory clinics 

Learning and other clinical activities throughout this stage of training:

  * Resident Continuity clinic in community pediatrics setting
  * Teaching skills and multiple opportunities to engage in teaching junior learners and peers
  * Patient Safety / Quality Improvement curriculum
  * Formal curriculum to support transition to practice including: practice management, financial aspects and billing, mentorship

**Research and Scholarly work**

**The Residency Program Committee believes research and scholarly work to be
an essential part of the residency-training program. It is expected that all
pediatric trainees will complete at least one scholarly project during their
training.   Research 'Bootcamp' held throughout Foundations stage will address
foundational principles of research. Critical Appraisal curriculum and monthly
Research Roundtables support residents in their scholarly work.  Residents may
choose to do a short or long-term project on advocacy, quality improvement,
medical education, clinical or basic science research. Supervision and
mentorship are offered by faculty members and by the Residency Research
Committee. Residents may schedule protected research time into their rotations
longitudinally or use their Integrated Pediatric selective or elective time to
work on their scholarly project.  
**

**Educational Activities**

All incoming residents will participate in a multiweek orientation bootcamp,
as outlined above to support their transition to residency.

The program provides time for resident learning using a format of seminars,
lectures, workshops, interactive discussions and journal clubs. The curriculum
is planned by the Residency Program Committee with resident and faculty input.

Protected teaching times include monthly research rounds, and weekly
Departmental Grand Rounds and Academic Half Days on Wednesday afternoons
(total of 4.5 hours per week). The curriculum for the Academic Half Day
follows a four-year cycle, with each session led by an experienced faculty
member. Resident-led teaching including teaching around Canadian Paediatrics
Society practice points and position statements, as well as senior teaching
around key practical topics and physical exam skills are also integrated
within academic half-day. There are various weekly subspecialty seminars in
addition to Journal Clubs, bedside and senior-directed teachings. Residents
also have scheduled administrative time.

A robust pediatric simulation curriculum runs for residents in all stages of
training exploring acute care scenarios. Annual skills workshops are also
integrated into resident curriculum exploring neonatal procedures, acute care
procedures, complex care procedures and management, physical examination and
communication skills. There are monthly small group discussions (LCC-
Longitudinal CanMEDS Competencies) that focus on discussion and development
of CanMEDS roles in a supported environment. There is a comprehensive
transition to practice curriculum for final year residents that incorporates
some dedicated time for clinical review sessions and practical skills for
entry into practice.  

Residents are encouraged and financially supported to participate in external
Continuing Medical Education (CME) activities with funding for conferences,
courses and virtual learning available through the program.

  
  

**Call**

All residents participate in on-call responsibilities primarily through a
night float model while at the McMaster site, allowing for better patient
continuity and resident wellness. This includes residents being on call on
alternate evenings (4:30pm to 8:00am) for typically 2 week blocks spread
throughout the year, that minimizes time away from scheduled daytime training
experiences and allows for future planning of after hours responsibilities.
Waterloo residents will typically do one fewer block of night float per year
than their Hamilton resident counterparts.



In Waterloo, residents will participate in in-house 12h call (either 0800-2000
or 2000-0800), attending deliveries, participating in neonatal resuscitation,
doing consults in the emergency department, and covering inpatient issues for
the NICU and pediatrics floor. The staff in Waterloo do in-house call and so
residents will have significant opportunity to work 1:1 with staff and develop
skills with direct support.



* * *

# Training Sites

Primary Training Sites:

McMaster Children's Hospital

Grand River Hospital

McMaster Children's Hospital provides primary, secondary and tertiary care to
the local community and the region. Most rotations are done at McMaster
Children's Hospital, the children's hospital with second largest population
catchment in Ontario, serving 2.3 million people. There is a very busy
emergency department and general pediatrics wards where common problems are
seen in significant volumes.  In addition, all pediatric subspecialties exist
at McMaster Children's Hospital which ensure excellent learning opportunities
from patient volume and variety.

Located in Kitchener, Grand River Hospital provides specialized regional
services including a Pediatrics CTU ward, a level 2B NICU with 700 admissions
per year, a busy obstetric ward, and ambulatory pediatric clinics (including a
general pediatrics outpatient clinic, specialized Type 1 Diabetes clinic,
cystic fibrosis clinic, eating disorder clinic, asthma clinic, and a pediatric
oncology/POGO satellite clinic).

All teaching sites in the program, outside of the McMaster Children's Hospital
are linked by interactive videoconferencing facilities.



  
  



* * *

# Additional Information

**Quick Facts **

  *  Residents may undertake inter-provincial and international electives. Global health mentorship and pre-departure training as well as limited competitive funding for global health electives are available.

  * For residents interested in research, once they have started their residency, they can apply for the Clinical Investigator Program (CIP). CIP training involves protected time for research including graduate or postdoctoral research studies, that must be coordinated with specialty or subspecialty training plans to fulfill McMaster CIP and Royal College of Physicians & Surgeons of Canada training objectives. CIP training provides individualized mentorship in research and promotes the development of broad and specialized research knowledge, skills and attitudes that are important for future clinician investigators. 

**Competency-Based Medical Education: Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons
of Canada**

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](https://www.royalcollege.ca/content/dam/documents/accreditation/competence-
by-design/directory/cbd-cheat-sheet-e.pdf), aims to enhance patient care by
aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving patient needs
and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education process.

CBD uses competencies rather than time as the basis for progression. Residency
programs are broken down into stages, and each stage will have a series of
milestones based on required competencies. These milestones will create more
targeted learning outcomes and involve more frequent, formative assessments
within the clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving
feedback on the skills they need.  Stages of pediatric training are further
outlined in the Program Curriculum section as Pediatrics programs across
Canada formally launched our CBD curriculum in July 2021.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs will
continue to lead to Royal College approved certification. Certification for
trainees in both CBD and traditional programs will include the completion of a
Royal College examination; however, residents in CBD programs will also be
assessed against program milestones throughout their training. Within a CBD
program, all milestones (documented within an electronic portfolio) and the
Royal College examination must be successfully completed to achieve
certification.

* * *

# FAQ

**Do I need to apply to both McMaster Hamilton Campus and Waterloo Campus to
be considered for an interview at the Waterloo Campus?**

Yes, you need to apply to both programs to be eligible for an interview at the
Waterloo Campus.

**How do I meet with the program director and/or chief residents to learn more
about the program or ask questions?**  

We host multiple information sessions about the program throughout the year.
Please see our PGY-1 information on the McMaster [PGME
website](https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/) for
session details one they are finalized. Or contact our Program Administrators
([peded@mcmaster.ca](mailto:peded@mcmaster.ca)). We highly encourage all
applicants to learn more about our program and selection process from these
sessions.  

Question and answer sessions about the program are held with the Program
Director, Associate Program Directors and lead residents on select Wednesdays
each month starting in September until January from 12:15 p.m. to 12:45 p.m.
Please contact our Program Administrators
([peded@mcmaster.ca](mailto:peded@mcmaster.ca)) for more information.

Please see the [CANPREPP: Events Calendar](https://canprepp.ca/) for
additional information about program information sessions and 'ask a resident'
evening sessions for McMaster Pediatrics and other programs across Canada.

  
  

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26336?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26336