#  Western University - Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology - London  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 03, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Joanna Walsh  

Address Pathology and Laboratory Medicine  
Western University, 1151 Richmond Street  
Room 4044, Dental Sciences Building  
London, Ontario, N6A 5C1  

Work  (519) 661-2030

Fax

Websites of Interest [ UWO Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine
](http://www.schulich.uwo.ca/pathol/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: Anatomical Pathology

Name: Dr. Joanna Walsh

Title: Program Director

Email: joanna.walsh@lhsc.on.ca

Phone: 519-685-8500 x 34112

  

Name: Ms. Cheryl Campbell

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: ccampbel@uwo.ca

Phone: 519-661-2111 x86389

  

* * *

# Important Information

Late applications will not be considered.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided (by submitting one
of the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.
Failure to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.
No other forms of verification are acceptable.  

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of card must be provided and legible.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three reference letters are required and should be written by staff
physicians/faculty members.  All reference letters will be reviewed.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Required - used for memory aid.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  500

Maximum :  1000

  

The applicant will be **required to submit a personal letter** of
approximately 500-1,000 words. This should include the reason for interest in
DMP as a specialty, why they are suited for the practice of pathology, and
what makes them a good candidate for our program. Please include any other
pertinent information which may be helpful in the selection process.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applications will not be considered after the file review process has begun.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 3, 2025
  * February 4, 2025
  * February 5, 2025
  * February 6, 2025
  * February 7, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Final interview days within this week will
be determined when applicant numbers are known.  All interviews will take
place virtually.  The process will include interviews with representatives
from the DMP Residency Training Committee, including the Program Director.
Additionally, candidates will have a chance to meet with the residents, where
there will be opportunities to learn more about the program and about life in
London.  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: We reserve the right to adjust the
interview process so as to be fair to all eligible applicants.  
  
More information about preparing for your virtual interview can be found at
[Virtual Interview Resources for
Residents.](https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/medicine/postgraduate/academic_resources/virtual_interview_preparation/index.html)  
  
Persons with disabilities who anticipate needing accommodation for any part of
the residency application process may contact, in confidence, [Learner
Experience.](https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/learner_experience/)  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates will be selected on the basis of demonstrated interest in
Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology, reference letters, academic record, and
interviews.

## Program goals

The goal of Western's training program in Diagnostic & Molecular Pathology is
to provide residents with high quality training in all areas of Diagnostic and
Molecular Pathology, through a rigorous and comprehensive academic program,
delivered by a faculty committed to resident success.  The program has
embraced Competency Based Medical Education (CBME), and meets the standards
specified by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

In addition to providing training in all core areas, residents receive
training in research, education and quality assurance, and senior residents
have the opportunity to tailor the program to suit their individual career
goals and develop areas of scholarly interest.

The program is committed to inclusivity and resident wellness.

## Selection process goals

Skills and attributes sought in the selection process are those which will
afford residents the greatest opportunity for success in the program:

\- Demonstrated interest in Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology (evidenced by
Curriculum Vitae / transcript, personal letter, reference letters)

\- Academic ability (organization and responsibility, drive and leadership)

\- Effective communication and interpersonal skills (demonstration of team
work skills and anticipated ability to work collegially in a resident group)

\- Research and/or teaching interest and ability

\- Commitment to upholding standards of equity, diversity and inclusion

## File review process

Review team composition : The file review team consists of the Program
Director and members of the Residency Program Committee (RPC).

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Demonstrated interest in Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology; evidence that the candidate shows organizational skills and takes responsibility for patient care; evidence that the candidate works collegially with other members of the healthcare team and has good communication skills; evidence that the candidate has been involved in research / volunteering / community outreach (or there is a mitigating factor which has precluded this).   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  There is not an elective requirement at this time.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Specific examination scores are not required.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Evidence that the candidate works collegially with others; evidence that the candidate has been involved in volunteering / community outreach (or there is a mitigating factor which has precluded this).   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Evidence that the candidate works collegially with others; evidence that the candidate has been involved in volunteering / community outreach (or there is a mitigating factor which has precluded this).   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Presence or absence of breaches of professionalism; evidence that the candidate shows organizational skills and takes responsibility for patient care; evidence that the candidate works collegially with other members of the healthcare team and has good communication skills.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstrated interest in Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology; evidence that the candidate understands the job of a pathologist (as expected for their level of training) and has used their elective (or other) experiences to prepare them for a pathology residency (even if unable to secure a pathology elective).   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Demonstrated interest in Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology; evidence that the candidate shows organizational skills and takes responsibility for patient care; evidence that the candidate works collegially with other members of the healthcare team and has good communication skills.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Publications commensurate with afforded research opportunities; evidence that the candidate has the drive and commitment to successfully initiate and carry out a research project.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Successful completion of medical school courses; presence or absence of breaches of professionalism.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: There is not an elective requirement at this time.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  The candidate can provide a valid and positive example of a team experience and is aware of traits that can influence a team.   
Collegiality |  We do not evaluate this interview component.   
Communication skills |  The candidate is able to communicate clearly and describes logical reasons for their intent to pursue a pathology residency, and can articulate why Western would be a good fit for them; they display maturity and honesty.   
Health advocacy |  The candidate is able to identify ambiguity, their own gaps of knowledge, and recognizes the importance of seeking help in new situations.   
Interest in the discipline |  The candidate is able to reflect on what makes a “good” pathology resident and how their experiences have shaped them, and is aware of potential challenges in pathology.   
Interest in the program |  The candidate is able to articulate why Western would be a good fit for them.   
Leadership skills |  The candidate is able to display self-awareness of imperfection, be resilient with challenges and be aware of limitations they may struggle with.   
Professionalism |  The candidate convincingly understands the importance of diagnostic integrity and appropriate lines of communication.   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component.   
Other interview component(s) |  Candidates will be assessed on how well their answers demonstrate reflective practice and a growth mindset.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

  * The Diagnostic & Molecular Pathology Program at Western University has a long tradition of academic excellence and success at the Royal College examination.
  * The Program has a dedicated teaching faculty, with a 1:3 resident to faculty ratio, and an established mentorship program.
  * There is a comprehensive educational program, with numerous rounds and teaching sessions. 
  * Forensic training is longitudinal, with abundant learning opportunities.
  * Elective opportunities permit residents to tailor the program to their own needs and goals, while developing areas of scholarly interest.
  * The Program is committed to resident wellness, with a departmental wellness budget allotted to residents.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology**  

The Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology program at Western University is well
established with a long tradition of excellence. The program was reviewed by
the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada in the fall of 2019,
receiving full accreditation. The strength of the program lies in the
excellent rapport between residents and faculty members, combined with faculty
enthusiasm and dedication to teaching.

Residents are thoroughly prepared for their Royal College examinations with a
comprehensive curriculum and regular in-training evaluations, resulting in a
near 100% pass rate at the Royal College exams for the past 33 years. Combined
residency/MSc or residency/PhD programs are available for interested
applicants.  

The Program transitioned to a competency based medical education curriculum
(Competency by Design) in July 2019, under the guidance of the Royal College.
The program uses a 5 year framework for residents to complete the required
Entrustable Professional Activities (EPAs) necessary to practice as a
competent consultant pathologist.  The mandatory rotations are designed to
ensure that residents are able to fulfill all the goals and objectives of
training. Elective opportunities permit senior residents to tailor the program
to their own needs and goals.  Numerous rounds and teaching sessions
supplement the practical training component.

**PGY1**

**Stages of training: Transition to Discipline (1 block), Foundations of
Discipline (11 blocks), Core Discipline (1 block)**

The early introductory and foundational training includes both clinical and
pathology based rotations in various specialties. The initial 4 week "block"
is spent in the pathology department with an introduction to specimen
dissection, microscopy and autopsy.  The first 8 Foundations blocks are spent
in clinical rotations, selected to give a good grounding in clinical medicine
and surgery, supporting good clinicopathological reasoning in future pathology
practice (Medical Genetics / Molecular Diagnostics, Internal Medicine,
Hematology, Medical Oncology, General Surgery, Gynecologic Oncology,
Otolaryngology, Pediatric Surgery).  The subsequent 3 blocks are spent in the
pathology department, developing skills in specimen dissection, microscopy,
intraoperative "frozen section" consultation and autopsy.  Core Discipline
begins in the final block of PGY1.  



**PGY2-4**

**Stage of training: Core Discipline (39 blocks)**

During core training, residents rotate through the Surgical Pathology,
Cytopathology, Molecular Pathology, Neuropathology and Autopsy services to
ensure adequate exposure to all subspecialties.  Surgical Pathology includes
involvement in frozen sections, gross and microscopic examination, ancillary
studies and subspecialty sign-out.  Residents participate in research and
teaching activities, and more senior residents serve on the Departmental
Quality Committee. There is ample elective time for residents to seek
additional training in certain subspecialty areas, hone their exam skills, or
seek fellowship opportunities.  



**PGY5**

**Stage of training: Transition to Practice**

In the final stage of training, residents have the opportunity to take on more
advanced leadership, research and teaching opportunities, obtain further
training in individual areas of interest, and practice managing the daily
workload of a Diagnostic and Molecular Pathologist.







**Diagnostic and Molecular  Pathology Educational Program**

The program has a comprehensive academic curriculum, designed specifically for
residents.  There is a weekly academic half day, during which time residents
are excused from all service responsibilities. This takes the form of didactic
and seminar style teaching, along with practical at-the-microscope sessions.
These sessions cover a broad range of DMP topics as well as supplementary
topics including Laboratory Management, Quality Assurance, Critical Appraisal,
Wellness, and Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Decolonization.  In addition to
the academic half day, there are numerous formal teaching sessions and rounds.
There are 3 in-house written examinations per year and 2 oral examinations,
and residents participate annually in the RISE (US based online exam).  During
Foundations of Discipline, residents participate in an integrated Introduction
to Pathology course, which allows hands-on experience and familiarity with
basic lab techniques.

**Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology Electives**

There is a significant period of time available for electives, with a wide
choice of electives for the trainee to consider. These can include rotations
in specific subspecialty areas of Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology e.g.,
gynecologic or gastrointestinal pathology, or in research.  DMP residents may
choose electives in a community hospital in order to broaden their experience
of day-to-day pathology practice or for career planning.  Residents may also
do electives in clinical pathology disciplines such as hematopathology,
chemistry or microbiology if they are considering practicing in a community
hospital setting.  The flexibility in the elective program allows each
individual resident to achieve their own personal goals and to explore
possible career choices.

**Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology Research**

Each resident is required to do two research projects during the course of
their residency, including a Quality Assurance project. Residents may do more
at their discretion, and are required to participate annually in the
departmental research day.

Many faculty members have active research programs, and therefore
opportunities exist for residents to do research in a wide range of areas,
including clinicopathological and bench type research, quality assurance,
digital pathology and AI, and scholarship of teaching and learning.

Research can be performed as part of general rotations or as elective blocks.
Residents are encouraged to present their work at provincial, national and
international meetings, for which there is Departmental funding for travel
expenses.  Current and past residents have won numerous research prizes and
travel awards.

**Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology Teaching by Residents**

Residents are involved in the formal teaching of undergraduate medical
students (small groups and occasionally anatomy labs), as well as the informal
teaching of medical students and residents from other services who rotate
through pathology.  They also teach each other during various rounds and at
Academic Half Days.

**Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology Assessment**

There are 3 in-house written examinations per year and 2 oral examinations.
These mimic the Royal College examination and provide an outstanding method of
preparing for the Royal College exam.  In addition, residents participate
annually in the RISE (Resident in Service Examination, hosted by the American
Society of Clinical Pathologists), a US based online exam that mimics the
American "Boards".  

**Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology Summary**

The DMP program at Western University offers a superb training opportunity for
residents wishing to pursue a career in Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology.
The program offers all the opportunities and facilities of larger programs,
but has the advantages of a single training site, focused faculty attention to
individual residents, a well established mentorship program, longitudinal and
on-site forensic pathology training, and program flexibility.  The program
does this in an easy-going and pleasant environment in which to live and work.

**Residency Training Program Start Date**

All programs at Western commence on July 1, 2024.  There will be a PGME
Orientation Day and lecture series beginning in June for residents to attend.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Western University**

Western University is located on the traditional lands of the Anishinaabek,
Haudenosaunee, Lūnaapéewak and Chonnonton Nations, on lands connected with the
London Township and Sombra Treaties of 1796 and the Dish with One Spoon
Covenant Wampum.

We respect the longstanding relationships that Indigenous Nations have to this
land, as they are the original caretakers.  We acknowledge historical and
ongoing injustices that Indigenous Peoples (First Nations, Métis and Inuit)
endure in Canada, and we accept responsibility as physicians and educators to
contribute toward revealing and correcting miseducation through our teaching
and research.



**Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology Resources**

The Pathology Department is centralized at the London Health Sciences Centre,
University Hospital, which is on the main university campus.  All pathologists
and residents in the city work together, at one site, in a modern, state of
the art department, equipped with digital imaging equipment.  All residents
have their own work station equipped with their personal microscope and
computer.  There is dedicated internet, a comprehensive software package, on-
line access to medical journals, and a Departmental (resident room) collection
of hard copy and on-line textbooks.  Additional materials are available
through the Hospital and Western Libraries.  

The department serves as a referral centre for over 1,500,000 people in
Southern Ontario, ensuring exposure to a wide range of pathological material
(approximately 1000 autopsies, 70,000 surgical and 30,000 cytological
specimens annually).  The department is equipped for electron microscopy,
immunopathology and molecular biology, and there are complete services in
medical biochemistry, medical microbiology, and hematology.  Regional
cytogenetics and clinical immunology laboratories are located in London, and
there is an active multi-organ transplant program and the Regional Cancer
Clinic.  Community hospitals include (but are not limited to) Stratford
General Hospital, Bluewater Health in Sarnia, and the Grey Bruce Regional
Health Centre in Owen Sound.



* * *

# Additional Information

**About London**

London is a pleasant city of approximately 400,000 people, situated in
Southwestern Ontario, midway between Toronto and Windsor/Detroit.  It is
dubbed "The Forest City" due to its abundance of trees and parks, with
numerous walking, running and biking trails.  It offers many of the amenities
of a larger city but remains more affordable and more easily "commutable",
with lower traffic density.  A significant proportion of London's population
works at Western University or in one of the several health care or research
facilities.  London is also home to several large corporations, and there are
excellent restaurants, theatres and many community-oriented events, all of
which enhance family life.  

London is home to many festivals throughout the year, and the main sports-
entertainment venue "Budweiser Gardens" hosts numerous concerts and other
events.  For big-city sports or entertainment, Toronto and Detroit are 2 hours
away by car or train.  The town of Stratford (home to the Stratford festival)
is a 30-40 minute drive from London.  For sports lovers, London has much to
offer with sailing either on Fanshawe Lake (in the city) or on Lake Huron,
cross country skiing on groomed trails in Fanshawe Park, downhill skiing at
the London Ski Club, mountain biking, hiking, beach volleyball (in the city),
cycling and rollerblading along the Thames River (20km of connected paved
paths) and golfing, not to mention the usual complement of tennis and squash
clubs, etc.  

* * *

# FAQ

Q. How many positions are available?

\- Western University Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology has three (3) PGY-1
positions available for the 2025 match.



Q. Do you accept international medical graduates (IMGs)?

\- The Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology Training Program does not have any
allocated IMG positions and will therefore not be considering international
medical graduates for the 2025 match.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27379?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27379