#  University of Manitoba - Neurology - Winnipeg

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on October 21, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Sean Udow  

Address Neurology  
Room GF336A Health Sciences Centre  
820 Sherbrook Street  
Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3A 1R9  

(204) 787-2290

Websites of Interest

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Sean Udow

Title: Program Director

  

Name: Shelly Harborne

Title: Program Administrator

Email: sharborne@hsc.mb.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

**UNIVERSITY OF MANITOBA NEUROLOGY**

PGME and the Neurology program are fully committed to working together to
resolve the accreditation issues to ensure the ongoing success of the program.

The Neurology Residency Program at the University of Manitoba runs over the
course of five years and as of July 2020, new residents entering the program
will experience the Competency by Design Curriculum (CBD).  The majority of
training is completed at Health Sciences Centre (HSC), the largest tertiary
care hospital in Manitoba.

During inpatient neurology rotations at HSC, residents will work on a team
with other trainees supervised by a stroke neurologist and a general
neurologist on-call.  The stroke neurologist runs the stroke service with the
stroke team.  Clinical exposure includes the diagnosis and management of
hyperacute strokes, in-hospital stroke prevention consultations and management
of stroke inpatients on the high-observation unit and a neurology ward.  The
general neurologist runs the general neurology service with the general
neurology team.  Residents on the general neurology team will be exposed  a
busy general neurology consultation service.  Due to the large HSC catchment
area, residents will be exposed to a wide variety of neurological
presentations.  

With an average of three residents per year, there are a current total of 13
residents in the program which allows for a collegial and supportive resident
environment.  There are 35 faculty neurologists who are dedicated to residency
education.  The small size of the section of neurology fosters close, often
one-on-one supervision and mentorship between faculty and residents.
Importantly, the section has grown and continues to grow.  In 2015 there were
10 residents, and sixteen faculty neurologists have been recruited since 2020.

The residency curriculum is reviewed in detail in the "_Program Curriculum"_
section.   Particular highlights of the curriculum include a large catchment
area with a diverse patient population resulting in exposure to a multitude of
neurological presentations, a longitudinal outpatient clinic for residents in
PGY2 and higher, dedicated outpatient clinic time in a variety of subspecialty
and general neurology clinics and six blocks of elective time.  Residents
enjoy significant flexibility in the scheduling of their rotations,
particularly in their senior years.   Highlights of the Academic Curriculum
include a new modular-based academic half-day curriculum with regular
formative short-answer style exams and three formative practical OSCE exams
per year.

We have a strong history of resident success at the Royal College
Certification exam, and our graduating residents have been accepted to highly-
reputed fellowships and faculty positions across Canada and the United States.  

Finally, our residency program prioritizes residents.  Residents are invited
to be involved in curriculum development and program quality improvement
through positions in the Curriculum Development Committee, Competence
Committee and Residency Training Committee.  Resident wellness is valued and
promoted during the academic half day curriculum and with a resident retreat
supported by the program.   Our program teaches residents that a neurologist
must balance left with right, textbook reading with clinical experience and
professional career with a holistic lifestyle.

**Follow us on instagram: @winter peg_neuro**

**Introducing The Bison Brain _:  _**_Check out the Spring and Summer issues
at the following link  ** [The Bison
Brain](https://linktree.com/thebisonbrain)**_

_The Bison Brain_  is the quarterly newsletter of the University of Manitoba
Neurology Residency Training Program. The goal of this newsletter is to foster
community and enhance connectivity among residents, faculty in the growing
section of neurology and beyond.

**IMPORTANT INFORMATION  **

The **Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation**  for all residents, **which
is MANDATORY** , will be held on Thursday, **June 26, 2025.  
**

Residents entering the Neurology program will experience competency-based
training.

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada.  This initiative, called [Competence by
Design (CBD)](https://www.royalcollege.ca/ca/en/cbd.html), aims to enhance
patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving
patient needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education
process.

CBD will use time as a framework rather than the basis for progression.   It
is not anticipated that the duration of training will change for the majority
of trainees.  Residency programs will be broken down into stages, and each
stage will have a series of milestones based on required competencies.  These
milestones will create more targeted learning outcomes and involve more
frequent, formative assessments within the clinical workplace to ensure
residents are developing and receiving feedback on the skills they need.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs.   All CBD programs (and
traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification.   Certification of trainees in both CBD and traditional
programs will include the completion of a Royal College examination; however,
residents in CBD programs will also be assessed against program milestones
throughout their training.  Within a CBD program, all milestones and the Royal
College examination must be successfully completed to achieve certification.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](https://www.royalcollege.ca/content/rcpsc/ca/en.html)

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

You are required to fulfill ALL of the most current Provincial Criteria for
Canadian Medical Graduates for Manitoba

The criteria can be found at:  <https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/>





* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Custom Résumé / CV

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

The content and length of the personal letter is left to the judgement of the
applicant. This should outline the candidate's interest in Neurology and
should answer the following questions: - What has attracted you to Neurology -
What attracts you to this program specifically - What background / traits do
you have that will be an asset to a career in Neurology - What are your long-
term career goals

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Conditionally required

Optional - will be reviewed

Self-identification questionnaire

The University of Manitoba, Rady Faculty of Health Sciences promotes and
supports a community that embraces equity, diversity and inclusion, provides
for equality of opportunity and recognizes the dignity of all people.  These
are key values to create an inclusive community for all.  The University
encourages applications from Indigenous persons, persons with a disability,
racialized persons, women, persons of a minority sexual orientation and/or
gender identity, and all candidates who would contribute to the diversity of
our community.

We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self-
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program.  This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us.  All information received will
be maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality.   We are in the data collection phase currently.  Candidates
are not required to submit the CaRMS Self-Identification questionnaire, but
for those that do feel comfortable doing so, the information received would
only be used for program selection improvement in future years.  It will not
be used for selection purposes this year.  Any self-identification
questionnaires received will NOT be reviewed as part of our file review
process or used as an aid for file reviewers for the 2024 match.  

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 3, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: All interviews will take place on Monday,
February 3, 2025.  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: After review of all candidates'
documents, candidates will be invited for a zoom interview.    The interviews
will be conducted by members of the Neurology Postgraduate Committee.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The Neurology Postgraduate Committee will select candidates based on:

\- Academic achievement

\- Communication and interpersonal skills

\- Reference letters - 3 letters of reference are required

\- Interest in Neurology demonstrated by elective and research experience in
Neurology and related fields

  

## Program goals

The Postgraduate Medical Education Program in Neurology in the Rady Faculty of
Health Sciences has mandate to promote excellence in training of Neurology
residents to become evidence informed practitioners in Neurology, delivering
excellence in care with a focus on clinical care, scholarship, and research
activities.  The University of Manitoba is committed to the social justice
principles of equity, access & participation and to promoting opportunities
for systemically marginalized groups who have been excluded from full
participation at the University and the larger community including Indigenous,
Black, racially marginalized Peoples, persons with disabilities and those who
identify as 2SLGBTQIA+ (Two Spirit, lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans,
questioning, intersex, asexual and other diverse sexual identities) and women.



Upon completion of training, a resident is expected to be a competent
specialist in Neurology, capable of assuming a consultant's role in the
specialty.   The resident must acquire a working knowledge of the theoretical
basis of the specialty, including its foundations in the basic medical
sciences and research.  

During the course of training, the resident must acquire a high degree of
clinical competence in the investigation and management of patients with
neurological disorders.

Residents are expected to develop skills in medical education, administration,
and research while undergoing their education in our program.

The resident must develop the ability to function as a consultant in the
inpatient and ambulatory settings as part of a multidisciplinary team.
Expertise in communication, relevant investigative methods, and teaching
skills are essential, together with skill in the collection and interpretation
of data and decision-making.

Residents must develop and demonstrate the requisite knowledge, skills, and
attitudes for effective patient-centered care and service to a diverse
population.  In all aspects of specialist practice, the graduate must be able
to address issues of gender, sexual orientation, age, culture, ethnicity and
ethics in a sensitive and professional manner.

## Selection process goals

An inclusive, open and diverse community is essential to excellence and
fosters voices that have been ignored or discouraged. To address the Rady
Faculty of Health Sciences commitment to equity, access and participation, and
in recognition of the underrepresentation of members of historically and
currently excluded groups,  our program has taken the following proactive
measures as part of our selection process:   \- _list program  specific
interventions (ex. Implicit bias training for all selection committee members,
community member participation in selection processes, diverse representation
of selection committee members, minimum one blinded interviewer, use of MMI
interview format, inclusion of interview questions targeted to assess
applicant commitment to EDIA, offering necessary accommodations during the
interview process, second pass/review of applicants below interview and rank
order list cut off to review for possible bias in scoring, orientation to all
assessors to scoring rubrics, file review completed by dedicated, trained
group, )_

We strive for diverse perspectives and cultural safety throughout the hiring
process (resident selection committees, short-list of applicants, interviews).
We ask all applicants to include an EDIA statement in their personal letter
with evidence demonstrating their own commitment to EDIA in their work and
training thus far.

A successful applicant to the Neurology Residency Training Program at the
University of Manitoba should:

1\. embody excellence in all the CANMEDS physician roles

2\. display a keen desire to study neurology, including theoretical knowledge
and research practices

3\. have a foundational background in clinical medicine upon which to build
clinical skills and a diagnostic acumen

4\. be organized, detail-oriented and motivated in order to commit to a self-
directed study schedule

5\. have experience and success in working in a team-based environment

6\. communicate effectively with peers, other health care professionals and
patients

7\. strive to excel as a medical educator by setting a positive and
stimulating learning climate

8\. act at all times as a dedicated professional

## File review process

Review team composition : Applicants will be selected for interview by the
program director.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Educational, research, employment experience   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Clinical exposure to neurology and neurological subspecialties   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Diverse experiences, interests outside of medicine to promote individual wellness, passion for giving   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Demonstration of initiative and team leadership   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Accountability, professionalism, collegiality, enthusiasm, clinical acumen   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in Neurology. Preliminary career goals. Personal attributes. Strengths that can help improve   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Accountability, professionalism, collegiality, enthusiasm, clinical acumen   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research experience in neurology   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Not typically evaluated   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Experience working in a team atmosphere with diverse team members   
Collegiality |  Evidence from interview or letters/CV will be evaluated   
Communication skills |  Interview processes will be used to identify communication strengths or weaknesses   
Health advocacy |  Interview processes will be used to identify strengths in health advocacy   
Interest in the discipline |  Through review of elective rotations, research experiences and in discussion with applicant   
Interest in the program |  History of elective time spent in the discipline at our centre is demonstrative evidence of a potent   
Leadership skills |  Voluntary or assigned duties in leadership as identified in CV, reference letters, or in discussion   
Professionalism |  Timelines for deadlines for submission and acknowledgement of offer for interview; interview related   
Scholarly activities |  Review of CV for evidence and discussion in interviews   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  poor communication skills  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Neurology Residency Program at the University of Manitoba runs over the
course of five years and as of July 2020, new residents entering the program
will experience the Competency by Design Curriculum (CBD).  The majority of
training is completed at Health Sciences Centre (HSC), the largest tertiary
care hospital in Manitoba.

During inpatient neurology rotations at HSC, residents will work on a team
with other trainees supervised by a stroke neurologist and a general
neurologist on-call.  The stroke neurologist runs the stroke service with the
stroke team.  Clinical exposure includes the diagnosis and management of
hyperacute strokes, in-hospital stroke prevention consultations and management
of stroke inpatients on the high-observation unit and a neurology ward.  The
general neurologist runs the general neurology service with the general
neurology team.  Residents on the general neurology team will be exposed  a
busy general neurology consultation service.  Due to the large HSC catchment
area, residents will be exposed to a wide variety of neurological
presentations.  

With an average of three residents per year, there are a current total of 14
residents in the program which allows for a collegial and supportive resident
environment.  There are 35 faculty neurologists who are dedicated to residency
education.  The small size of the section of neurology fosters close, often
one-on-one supervision and mentorship between faculty and residents.
Importantly, the section has grown and continues to grow.  In 2015 there were
10 residents, and sixteen faculty neurologists have been recruited since 2020.

The residency curriculum is reviewed in detail in the "_Program Curriculum"_
section.   Particular highlights of the curriculum include a large catchment
area with a diverse patient population resulting in exposure to a multitude of
neurological presentations, a longitudinal outpatient clinic for residents in
PGY2 and higher, dedicated outpatient clinic time in a variety of subspecialty
and general neurology clinics and six blocks of elective time.  Residents
enjoy significant flexibility in the scheduling of their rotations,
particularly in their senior years.   Highlights of the Academic Curriculum
include a new modular-based academic half-day curriculum with regular
formative short-answer style exams and three formative practical OSCE exams
per year.

We have a strong history of resident success at the Royal College
Certification exam, and our graduating residents have been accepted to highly-
reputed fellowships and faculty positions across Canada and the United States.  

Finally, our residency program prioritizes residents.  Residents are invited
to be involved in curriculum development and program quality improvement
through positions in the Curriculum Development Committee, Competence
Committee and Residency Training Committee.  Resident wellness is valued and
promoted during the academic half day curriculum and with a resident retreat
supported by the program.   Our program teaches residents that a neurologist
must balance left with right, textbook reading with clinical experience and
professional career with a holistic lifestyle.

**Follow us on instagram: @winter peg_neuro**

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**PROGRAM CURRICULUM**

Training in Adult Neurology at the University of Manitoba is a 5-year program
with entry at the PGY-1 level. This program has full approval of the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

**Competence Based Medical Education** residents go through four stages of
training.  Promotion through these stages will depend on the competency in
various Entrustable Professional Activities.  Transition to Discipline is
expected to take on average 3 months, and includes refining clinical and
communication skills learned in medical school.   The Foundations Stage lasts
18-21 months and focuses on developing neurology-specific clinical skills and
knowledge.  The Core Stage is approximately 24 months in duration and during
this time the resident will develop subspecialty-level neurology knowledge and
leadership skills.  The Transition to Practice Stage lasts around 6 months,
and focuses on how to manage patients and a practice as a neurology
consultant.

The rotational curriculum is arranged by residency year, though it is
flexible.  Each rotational block is 4 weeks in duration.  

_PGY1_ :   Five blocks of the Neurology inpatient service are spread through
PGY1, and early exposure to the Neurology Service introduces the resident to
fellow residents and staff, as well as the goals and objectives of their "home
base" program.  The resident establishes basic skills in neurological history
taking and examination.  An introduction to neurological problem solving,
investigation and management is also acquired, although it is recognized that
at this stage the resident usually needs considerable guidance and, in most
instances, does not initiate major clinical decisions independently.   At this
year, a resident will also have exposure to 3 blocks of Internal Medicine, 1
block of Psychiatry, 1 block of Rheumatology, 1 block of Physical Medicine &
Rehabilitation and 1 block of Cardiology.  

_PGY2_ :  During this year the resident will have exposure to 4-5 blocks of
Adult Neurology.  At this point the resident has completed their basic
clinical training and internal medicine subspecialty rotations and has
acquired confidence in diagnosing, investigating, and managing major medical
problems and is ready for a more in-depth approach to neurological problems
and practice.  During this year the resident will have exposure to 1 block of
Medical Rehabilitation, 1 block of Neurosurgery, 2 blocks of Intensive Care, 1
block of Neuroradiology and 1 block of Emergency Medicine.  In addition, PGY2
residents will have a dedicated Neuroanatomy block which is a non-clinical
educational block with a guided curriculum and multiple-choice examinations in
order to allow them to consolidate neuroanatomy knowledge.

_PGY3, 4 and 5_ :  At this point, the schedule becomes flexible and residents
can request the timing of various rotations.  This phase of training
represents an important opportunity to consolidate skills and integrate
knowledge acquired during the previous adult neurology rotations, subspecialty
rotations and basic science seminars.

_Senior (PGY3-5) rotations include_ :   Inpatient Neurology Senior (9 blocks)
with he opportunity to lead the Neurology team, Pediatric Neurology (3
blocks), EEG/Epilepsy (3 blocks), EMG/Neuromuscular (3 blocks), Neuropathology
(1 block), Research (1 block), General Neurology outpatient clinics (4
blocks), **1 block each** of outpatient clinics in the subspecialties of
Multiple Sclerosis, Movement Disorders, Stroke Neurology, Neuro-ophthalmology
and Cognitive Neurology, 6 blocks of **electives** (which can be taken out of
province in consultation with the Program Director).

  

**RESEARCH**  
  

Residents in the residency training program in Neurology are required to carry
out a research project, submit a report of the findings to the Resident
Training Committee, and present the results at Clinical Neurosciences Rounds
and the Annual Department of Internal Medicine Research Day.



For trainees who intend to pursue an academic career, this is an opportunity
to develop research interest. For those trainees who do not fall into this
category, the research process will provide insights into the way scientific
projects are produced, improve critical appraisal skills, and enhance the
trainee's ability to evaluate the literature.

  
  

**Overall Goal and Objectives of the Program:**

The main goal of the program is to train skilled neurologists and to foster an
interest in academic pursuits and life long learning. The Mission of the
Neurology Program is to provide an environment which will assist the resident
to become a competent, caring, ethical physician with the ability to think
critically.

Medical expert/clinical decision-maker: The Neurology resident becomes an
expert and capable of diagnosing and managing the broad range of neurological
disorders they will encounter in Neurology practice.

Communicator: The neurology resident learns communication skills required to
transmit information about diagnosis, investigations and management to
patients, their families and a range of physicians who refer their cases for
neurological consultation.

Collaborator: The neurology resident learns skills needed to successfully
interact with other medical professionals, medical support personnel and
community agencies to promote timely diagnosis, investigation and effective
management of neurological conditions.

Manager: The neurology resident learns methods by which allied health care
professionals provide a broad range of patient care services and learns to
coordinate effective and appropriate utilization of these services within the
health care system.  The neurology resident develops an understanding of the
limitations of available resources and effective time management skills both
for themselves and for other health care professionals by utilizing effective
means of prioritizing tasks.

Health Advocate: The neurology resident practices principles of disease
prevention as they are applied to the relevant categories of neurological
disease and learns the responsibilities of their profession in working with
other health care professionals and services to emphasize disease prevention
strategies.

The neurology resident learns to identify the important determinants of health
in patients with neurological disorders. As well the resident learns to
contribute effectively to improved health of patients through education,
treatment, and health promotion, and to recognize and respond to those issues
where advocacy is appropriate.

Scholar: The neurology resident is stimulated to learn more about neurological
diseases and their management. The neurology resident learns how to conduct
personal learning projects and to participate in joint research efforts
related to disease diagnosis, investigation and management. All residents must
initiate and complete a research project during their neurology training.
Resident travel to conferences is financially supported.

Professional: The neurology residents learn to become well-rounded in their
perspective on the practice of neurological medicine with an appreciation of
the range of professional ethical and moral standards required of a
neurologist.

* * *

# Training Sites

Teaching Sites

The Adult Neurology rotations take place at the Health Sciences Centre
(<http://www.hsc.mb.ca>) and include the care of patients admitted under the
Neurology service as well as care of patients seen in consultation and in out-
patient clinics.

* * *

# Additional Information

**Formal Academic Activities:**

Academic half day is held on Friday mornings and includes:

Neuroscience Rounds

\- Neurosurgery or Neurology Case presented by a resident

\- Didactic presentation by a faculty member or guest speaker

Modular Academic Half Day Curriculum

\- Clinical/basic science didactic lectures by faculty members

\- Curriculum of 9 modules (headache & infectious disease; cerebrovascular
disease; epilepsy; demyelinating diseases of the CNS; neurodegenerative
diseases; neuromuscular diseases; neurology of systemic disease; neuro-
oncology & critical care; neuro-ophthalmology)

\- Each module ends with a formative written exam to help consolidate
knowledge and track resident progress.

**Rotating Rounds:**

\- Program Director's Hour (focusing on case-based learning and teaching
development)

\- EEG Rounds

\- Neuromuscular Rounds

\- Stroke Rounds

- Movement Disorders Rounds

\- Journal Clubs

\- Physical Exam Rounds

\- Thursday Case Rounds

\- Team-based Learning Sessions

\- Dedicated Wellness Curriculum

\- Leadership and Curriculum Development





Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26537?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26537