#  University of British Columbia - Family Medicine - Rural Fort St. John  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 08, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Joshua Greggain  

Address Faculty of Medicine – Department of Family Practice  
300-5950 University Boulevard  
Vancouver, British Columbia, V6T 1Z3  

Websites of Interest [ UBC CaRMS Website ](http://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Jana Ogdenova

Title: Program Co-manager

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Kelly Jacobs

Title: Program Co-manager

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Cindy Choi

Title: Education Coordinator

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Kim Furlong

Title: Site Coordinator

Email: kim.furlong@unbc.ca

  

Name: Dr. Courtney Boyer

Title: Site Co-Director

Email: boyer.courtney@gmail.com

  

Name: Dr. Hannah Galeazzi

Title: Site Co-Director

Email: hannahgaleazzi@gmail.com

  

* * *

# Important Information

Prospective residents should refer to the [Family Medicine Residency
Selection](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/) website for ongoing updates,
deadlines and detailed information.  
  

In order to apply for a residency position in the CaRMS match, International
Medical Graduates (IMG’s) must be selected through the [UBC Clinical
Assessment Program (CAP)](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/resource/clinical-
assessment/). The [IMG BC website](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/) provides key
information regarding this process.

IMG residents matched into a UBC program are required to attend a [mandatory
multi-day orientation](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/path-to-
residency/orientation/) prior to the start of their residency.

####  

FMProC: Important timelines

For the 2025 residency selection cycle ALL FM residency programs in Canada
require applicants to sit FMProC for those applying in both rounds of CaRMS.



FMProC test window for CaRMS first Iteration is from **October 28 (8AM ET) to
November 11, 2024 (10AM ET).  **

Registration opens from **September 11 (12 noon ET) and closes on November 07,
2024 (10AM ET).  **

** **

To register and find out more about the test please go to**
****[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/)**. All test related updates will
be posted on the website.

Requests to register or to sit the test outside of the posted deadlines will
not be considered.



**Upon completion of FMProC,  you must upload** your FMProC result letter to
CaRMS for your application to be considered complete.

** **

* * *

# Return of Service

The IMG stream is subject to a Return of Service (ROS). Successfully matched
applicants are required to sign a contract with the Ministry of Health as a
condition of accepting a medical residency position. Templates of the ROS
contract and allocation details can be reviewed on the MOH ROS website here:
[International Medical Graduates -
BC](https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/health/practitioner-professional-
resources/physician-compensation/return-service-programs/pgme-img-program "
International Medical Graduates - BC")

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Resident selection for the UBC Family Medicine program is a collaborative
process between all of our sites. Logistics and administration of resident
selection is managed by our central program office in Vancouver, located at
the UBC Point Grey Campus.

As the UBC Family Medicine Program is distributed into 23 unique sites and
locations, candidates should apply to each site they are interested in.  
Applicants must submit same application package to all sites to which they
apply.  

Regardless of the number of sites applicants apply to and rank, **only one
interview will be conducted**.

A variety of virtual information sessions will be held to provide prospective
residents with the opportunity to learn more about the programs and discuss
the training experience with faculty and current residents. Please visit
[Program Events](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/interviews-and-program-
events/) for upcoming events.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**IMG applicants:**

IMG applicants need not provide evidence of English language testing if the
primary language of medical education or patient care was in English. If the
primary language of medical education or patient care was NOT in English then
applicants must fulfill the English language proficiency requirements by the
start of Ranking Period.



See CPSBC English Language Proficiency Requirements here for more information:
<https://www.cpsbc.ca/files/pdf/REG-ELP.pdf>

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

MCCQE Part 1 Exam Information: <https://mcc.ca/examinations/mccqe-part-i/>

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).



NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required.

  * Regardless of reference source, reference letters should speak to an interest in Family Medicine and aptitude for the discipline.
  * Using anecdotal narrative if possible, letters should provide evidence of attributes and abilities well suited for a career in Family Medicine.
  * These attributes and abilities are also evaluated in our interview process (see interview criteria and components).

Note: Traditional narrative letters will **NOT**** ** be accepted.  
Please note that should your reference submit a traditional letter it will not
be reviewed and your application may be deemed incomplete.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

_Provide a biographical letter (max. 750 words) that includes answers to the
following questions:_

_1.__        What life skills or lived experience do you have that demonstrate
your suitability for family medicine residency training?_

_2.__        Why would a career in Family Medicine be a good fit for you?_

_3.__        Why UBC? Why British Columbia? Please elaborate with specific
examples of any connections you might have with the province of B.C., like
community connections, education, work experience, etc. _

_4.__        What clinical experience have you had in Canada?_

_5.__        What experience do you have in community-based family medicine?_

_ _

_**Note:   The same letter must be submitted with each site application.**_

Custom Résumé / CV

IMG-BC Clinical Assessment Program

The UBC Clinical Assessment Program (CAP) Letter is provided to CaRMS by UBC
IMG Office.

Applicants should only provide the documents requested by the program. No
other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Optional - will be reviewed

Family Medicine rural addendum/questionnaire

**Rural Questionnaire:**

  * Candidates are **strongly encouraged**  to include this supporting document when they apply to a rural site.
  * Completion of the rural questionnaire will identify the applicant as someone with a special interest in rural training and practice.
  * If you apply to both urban _and  _rural sites, completion of the rural questionnaire will not prevent applicants from being considered for an urban placement.
  * A score attributed to the questionnaire will be provided to Site directors at rural sites for consideration _after  _the interview period. This will be a stand-alone metric and does not contribute to the total file review score.
  * The following sites are considered rural and will use the rural questionnaire score when generating their site rank list: 
    * Kelowna Rural
    * Kootenay Boundary
    * Northern Rural
    * Northwest - Terrace
    * Northeast - Fort St. John
    * Okanagan South
    * Prince George
    * Strathcona
    * Rural Immersion
    * Quw'utsun
  * _Note:  _Training at the Indigenous sites include about 50% rural training, but will _not_  use the rural questionnaire in their ranking



**Rural Questionnaire:**

_(Answer the following questions. Please write your responses under each
question; 250 words max per question)_

  1. **_Describe your personal rural background and/or rural involvement and experience, both prior to and during medical school._**
  2. **_What has led you to apply for a residency in rural Family Medicine and why would you value a rural residency position?_**
  3. **_Describe the type of future rural practice that would fit you best._**



**Note:**  You must upload your responses under 'Family Medicine Rural
addendum/questionnaire'. Any responses submitted to 'Program questionnaire' or
any other sections not relevant to Rural addendum/questionnaire will not be
considered.





* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 18, 2025
  * January 19, 2025
  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025
  * January 25, 2025
  * January 26, 2025
  * January 27, 2025
  * January 28, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: 2025 R-1 match interviews will continue to
be in a virtual format.  
  
The national interview period is January 18- February 09, 2025.  
**UBC interviews** will take place between the dates of **January 18-28, 2025.
**  
  
Please note that candidates will be interviewed once, regardless of number of
training sites you apply to.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All interviews will be conducted in a
live, synchronous MMI format. The UBC Family Medicine (FM) program will
contact the selected applicants by email to provide program-specific interview
details and interview links.  
  
If you wish to add a new program/site to your rank list after your interview,
you must update your CaRMS application by our **Program deadline, January 29,
2025**. This date will be posted here as soon as it is determined.  
  
Any additional sites added to your application after this date will not be
considered for ranking.  
  
  
**Important** : you must also link your documents to any newly ranked site.  
  
Regardless of the number of sites to which you apply, one final score will be
generated after the interview.  
If you are matched, the program will be unable to facilitate transfer from one
site to another.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Applicants must submit an application to each site they are interested in and
should assign the same set of documents to each site. Selection is based on
file review and one set of MMI interviews. Each file is reviewed and given a
score. This file review score determines whether a candidate is offered an
interview. The file review score is then combined with the interview score and
FMProC score to create a total score for each applicant. **The file review
score will contribute to 50%, interview score will contribute to 45%, and
FMProC score will contribute to 5% of the overall global score.** This total
score informs the creation of a rank list which is submitted to each site for
consideration. Some sites will use this as the final rank list while some
sites will apply their own adjustments to this list based on local site
selection committee input.

** **

## Program goals

  1. To graduate residents who have developed the competencies needed to begin independent family practice in diverse community settings.
  2. To deliver an effective academic, clinical and scholarly educational program.
  3. To graduate residents who are inspired, resilient, and balanced.
  4. To graduate residents who demonstrate evidence-based and reflective practice.
  5. To provide working and learning environments that ensure residents, faculty and staff feel respected and supported.

## Selection process goals

  1. Identify individuals with an aptitude for family medicine who are most likely to thrive in our diverse residency sites and in the unique context of British Columbia communities.
  2. Identify individuals with a demonstrated solid foundation of clinical skills and clinical approach which equips them for Postgraduate Education training.
  3. Identify individuals who have consistent professional behavior; who interact appropriately with patients, colleagues and staff.
  4. Identify mature, motivated individuals with a broad range of life experience which they can draw upon to adapt to the demands of residency training.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is composed of faculty leadership
from across our distributed program, the program director and senior
administration.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 201 - 400  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Clinical experiences gained through electives are considered   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership skills are considered in the context of the personal letters and reference letters   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Taken into consideration only if professionalism issues are identified   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstrated suitability to Family Medicine and training in BC through experience and life skills   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Demonstrated suitability through attributes, abilities and interest in the discipline   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
Other file component(s) |  1\. Graduation Year  
2\. BC Clinical Assessment Program Quartile Rank  
3\. MCQQE Part I  
  
Note: A CV, the MSPR and transcripts are required supporting documents by
CaRMS but are not scored as part of the UBC Family Practice file review
process.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Clinical experiences gained through electives are
considered

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Yes: with patients and colleagues   
Collegiality |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Communication skills |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Health advocacy |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Interest in the discipline |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Interest in the program |  Yes: UBC in general, and in specific programs (rural, under-served populations, inner-city context etc.)   
Leadership skills |  Yes: assessment of leadership of self and others   
Professionalism |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Other interview component(s) |  Ability to handle Ambiguity/Uncertainty  
Advocacy/Compassion  
Resilience  
Patient centeredness  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  Known student from previous training exposure, site visits, and email
communication with the Co-Site Directors.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  • File does not support interest in family medicine  
• Interview suggests lack of non-cognitive family medicine skills  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

### **Uniquely B.C:  UBC Family Medicine**

[Family Medicine training in BC](https://postgrad.familypractice.ubc.ca/)
presents you with many unique opportunities. We are a fully accredited
distributed program with 23 training sites and multiple training communities.
In an effort to meet the evolving needs of our society, each site provides a
solid foundation in the knowledge and clinical skills of Family Medicine so
that our graduates are prepared to practice in a variety of settings. While
our program offers diversity of training, it is based on [common goals,
learning objectives, and assessment
standards](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/program-info/).

All residents are required to do a [mandatory 2-month rural
rotation](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/resident-resources/rural-
rotation/) in Family Medicine in their second year. Residents in the Coastal,
or rural programs in the Okanagan or the North complete longer rural
placements. Residents can also apply to participate in Enhanced Rural training
for a total of 4-6 months in rural communities.

There is extensive [academic and administrative
support](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/about/program-matrix/) for the
entire residency program. Our central program administrative team is based in
Vancouver on UBC campus. At the site level, leadership teams are made up of a
Site Director, Site Faculty, Lead Residents and administrators. Lead Program
Faculty provide provincial education support in the areas of curriculum,
assessment, faculty development, scholarship and behavioral medicine.

The Family Practice Postgraduate Education Committee has representation from
all sites to ensure a connected, distributed program that fully meets
accreditation standards. Residents are represented at all levels of
governance.

A wide range of amazing recreational and cultural opportunities are at your
doorstep, as well as a collegial community of residents and physicians with
whom you can learn, grow, and play. We want your experience to be in BC to be
a positive and enjoyable one.

### **Training Sites: Overview**

Visit the [UBC Family Medicine Postgraduate website
](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/)for a detailed overview of each of the 23
sites and their surrounding communities.  Each site provides opportunities to
experience Family Medicine in their unique context, offering special
opportunities to gain experience and skills unique to the area where you are
training.

The following is a list of our sites and their base community/hospital. Each
site serves the surrounding community (see [training
sites](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/training-sites/interactive-map/) for
full details):



**Greater Vancouver / Lower Mainland**

  * Abbotsford-Mission
  * Coastal (North Vancouver, Lion’s Gate Hospital)
  * Chilliwack
  * Indigenous (Greater Vancouver and rural Indigenous communities)
  * St. Paul's (Downtown Vancouver, Inner City)
  * Surrey South Fraser (Surrey Memorial Hospital)
  * Vancouver Fraser (New Westminster, Royal Columbian)



**Interior Region**

  * Kootenay Boundary (Trail, Nelson, Rossland, Castlegar)
  * Kelowna Rural (Kelowna R1 year; rural communities across BC in R2 year)
  * Kelowna Regional
  * North Okanagan (Vernon)
  * Okanagan South (Penticton)
  * Kamloops



**Vancouver Island**

  * Indigenous (Victoria, Ladysmith and rural Indigenous communities including Pacheedaht, Penelakut, ‘Namgis)
  * Quw'utsun (Duncan)
  * Nanaimo 
  * Strathcona (Comox, Campbell River and Courtenay)
  * Victoria



**Northern**

  * Fort St. John (Northeast)
  * Northern Rural (Prince George R1 year; rural communities across BC in R2 year)
  * Prince George
  * Rural Immersion (Hazelton, Smithers, Vanderhoof, Mackenzie, Valemount/McBride, Chetwynd/Tumbler Ridge)
  * Terrace (Rural Northwest)



**IMG positions are offered at the following sites:**

  * Abbotsford-Mission
  * Chilliwack
  * Coastal
  * Fort St. John
  * Kamloops
  * Kootenay Boundary
  * Nanaimo
  * North Okanagan
  * Okanagan South
  * Kelowna Rural
  * Kelowna Regional
  * Prince George
  * Strathcona
  * St. Paul’s
  * Surrey South Fraser
  * Vancouver Fraser
  * Victoria

### **Resident Support**

Resident resilience and wellness is our top priority. Important
[resources](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/resident-resources/resident-
wellness-and-safety/) have been developed by our program to support our
residents throughout the course of the training.

All UBC programs are allocated a fixed amount of funding per resident for
Resident Activities.  This funding is used to provide educational support to
residents during their 2 years of training. This includes funding for
residents to attend program-wide courses and events. Additionally, residents
may identify conferences and educational materials that would supplement their
training experience. A discretionary, per resident funding will also be
allocated to the sites for a similar purpose at the site level.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Introduction**

The North East Health Services Delivery Area (NEHSDA) provides health care to
a population of approximately 70,000 in the North East of British Columbia,
with the two largest communities of Dawson Creek and Fort St. John accounting
for the bulk of the care. The NEHSDA provide per annum 91,000 ER visits, 900
deliveries, 35, 000 inpatient days, and 5000 surgeries. There are over 60
physicians working in the North East providing these services. The residency
program is based in the community of Fort St. John for the majority of the
time however travel to the other communities in the region (Dawson Creek and
Chetwynd) is required for some clinical experiences, so a vehicle is required.



**Purpose/Objectives**

The vision of the Rural Fort St. John Family Practice Residency Site is to
offer high quality medical education in a rural community providing a broad
spectrum of general and specialist medical care. The majority of this general
and specialist care is provided by family practitioners, thus this site
provides the opportunity to learn in a truly generalist, broad-based milieu,
grounded in the three principles of the Triple C Curriculum: Comprehensive,
focused on Continuity and Centered in Family Medicine.

Our Mission is to provide a community-based postgraduate family practice
residency program and undergraduate family medicine education in a regional
centre affiliated with UBC, the Northern Medical Program, and the Northern
Health Authority.



**Program Objectives**

  * The Rural Fort St. John Site will provide a northern BC residency program that is designed as an integrated 24-month competency based curriculum.
  * The learning environment will be focused on family practice problem solving skills and based on principles of effective adult education.
  * The residents will be part of a community network of health care providers and will become skilled at collaborating as team members and team leaders.
  * The graduating residents will have expert knowledge of the wide range of common problems of patients in this community and of the less common but life-threatening and treatable emergencies in patients of all stages of the life cycle.
  * The excellent training will be a cooperative venture between the Department of Family Practice and this community-based training site.
  * Family Medicine will be taught by family physicians whose philosophy and practice are consistent with the aims and aspirations of Family Medicine, as defined by the four principles.



**PGY 1 Overview**

This two-year program is designed to train physicians interested in practicing
in rural Canada. However, the program also suits physicians interested in
acquiring a broad skill set useful in any community. The curriculum has been
created to maximize the integration of the hospital, the office and the
community work of the doctor. The curriculum will provide longitudinal,
integrated learning without true rotations and instead training will be
organized into Domains of Care.

The first year curriculum consists of 2 blocks each of OB/GYN, Emergency
Medicine, Internal Medicine, General Surgery/Anesthesia. and 3 blocks of
Family Practice with one block of Palliative Care and one block of outpatient
Psychiatry. While in the blocks you will still do half a day Family Practice
every week or a full day two times a month. We have 2 mandatory blocks in R1
that are out of town, these include Internal Medicine and Palliative Care.



**PGY 2 Overview**

The second year curriculum consists of 6 blocks for individual learning plan
Electives. Examples for electives include non-mandatory rotations in inpatient
pediatrics and ICU as well as a trauma elective in South Africa. The rest of
the blocks would be at the Fort St John site spreading across other
disciplines as per individual learning plans with the last 4 months being part
of the “Transition into Practice.” There is 1 mandatory elective in R2 which
is pediatric emergency done at BCCH.

For the mandatory blocks funding is provided for travel and accommodation.

To complement the required Domain experiences, visiting specialty services and
local expertise is available in ENT, Ophthalmology, Dermatology, Pediatrics,
Family Practice Anesthesia, Palliative Care, Chronic Pain, Methadone
Management, Travel Medicine, and Indigenous Health.



**Academic Days and Research**

To complement the clinical experience, residents attend a mandatory, weekly
half-day academic curriculum that includes family practice and specialty
seminars, case presentations, and workshops. These will be provided both
locally in Fort St John and by electronic link between Fort St. John and
distant sites as opportunities arise. Residents are also invited to attend all
medical staff educational rounds. All residents are funded to attend the ALARM
(Advances in Labour and Risk Management) course, ATLS (Advance Trauma Life
Support) or equivalent (e.g. CARE: Comprehensive Approach to Rural
Emergencies) and the ESSC (Essential Surgical Skills Course) coordinated by
the Kelowna Rural Program. Local ultrasound education is provided in the
Emergency Department, Birthing Centre, and Prenatal Clinic.

Residents attend mandatory academic activities – usually a half day per week.
This includes academic teaching which is a mix of clinical case discussions
and core topics. Residents are also expected to do presentations.

In June of each year, residents will come together for a mandatory Site
specific Scholarship Day.

In the first year, residents will be expected to complete a quality
improvement project. Throughout the two years, residents must complete a
scholar project and present their work at our local Scholarship Day which
allows for the attendance of faculty and community members.



**International Electives**

Residents can do one month of interprovincial or international electives
during their training.



**Further Training**

Third year training positions are available in the area of Emergency Medicine,
Care of The Elderly, Anesthesia, Palliative Medicine, Sports and Exercise
Medicine, Clinician Scholars program and a wide range of other category 2
Enhanced Skills programs.

* * *

# Training Sites

The communities of the northeast of BC offer a range of outdoor activities
including cycling, hiking, tennis, golf, climbing, skiing, snowshoeing, cross-
country skiing, snowmobiling, horseback riding, hunting, and fishing. Many
indoor sports are available: swimming, soccer, gymnastics, archery, ice
hockey, speed skating, curling, squash, and martial arts. There are a number
of arts groups in the community: choirs, bands, dance, theatre companies, as
well as visiting performing artists.  Long-term commitment to the northeast BC
rural community lifestyle is an important quality, and we encourage direct
contact from interested qualified applicants.

**  Resources**

The North East Health Services Delivery Area (NEHSDA) provides health care to
a population of approximately 70,000 in the northeast of British Columbia. The
majority of this care is centered around the two largest communities of Fort
St John and Dawson Creek but medical services are also provided in the smaller
communities of Chetwynd, Tumbler Ridge, Hudson's Hope and Fort Nelson. Fort St
John, Dawson Creek, Fort Nelson and Chetwynd have community hospitals;
Hudson's Hope and Tumbler have diagnostic and treatment centres. These
facilities provide, per annum 91,000 ER visits, 900 deliveries, 35,000
inpatient days, and 5000 surgeries. There are over 60 physicians working in
the northeast of BC providing over 1000 services per day.

The family practice resident will be based in Fort St. John for the majority
of their time, but may need to travel to other communities for some
experiences which may include family practice exposure, so a vehicle is
required.  The program recognizes that winter travel in the north can be
challenging, so a strength of the program is that most of the learning can be
done while immersed in one community, and travel can be kept to a minimum.

* * *

# Additional Information

**Return of Service (ROS)**

A Return-of-service (RoS) condition is attached to these positions.  IMG
graduates are expected to provide a 2 year ROS within the Health Authority in
which their training is located.  SPH-IMG graduates have the option to
practice in a Health Authority outside of Vancouver.  A draft of the contract
can be found on the UBC Family Practice website:
<http://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/training-sites/img-training-sites/>

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26887?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26887