#  McGill University - Obstetrics and Gynecology - Montreal

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Regular RoS Stream for All  

##  Last approved on September 09, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Robert Gagnon  

Address Obstetrics & Gynecology  
Royal Victoria Hospital  
1001 Decarie Boulevard  
Montreal QC , Quebec, H4A 3J1  

514- 934-1934, ext 34502

514-843-1539

Websites of Interest [ McGill OBGYN ](https://www.mcgill.ca/obgyn/)  
[ PGME ](https://www.mcgill.ca/pgme/)  
[ Obstetrics and Gynecology Residency Program
](https://www.mcgill.ca/obgyn/education/postgraduate-medical-
education/residents)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Robert Gagnon

Title: Program Director

Email: Robert.Gagnon3@mcgill.ca

  

Name: Dr. Megan Schneiderman

Title: Assistant Program Director

Email: megan.schneiderman@mcgill.ca

  

Name: Angie King

Title: Program Administrator

Email: obgyn.residency@mcgill.ca

  

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service**

The successful applicant will be required to sign a Return of Service
Agreement with the Province of New Brunswick for 5 years after completing
their residency. The Return of Service Agreement must be signed before the
matched applicant can commence their Obstetrics & Gynecology residency
training program. If a candidate does not fulfill their return of service
commitment in a New Brunswick community, they will be required to pay a
penalty.

If the resident decides not to continue or not to complete the training they
will have to reimburse the costs of their training assumed by New Brunswick.
If the resident decides not to practice in New Brunswick, a penalty of $
400,000 with interest will be imposed.

Candidates must be able to demonstrate that they have French language skills
in order to obtain a position within the vitalite health network, in
accordance with the requirements of the language policy.  

Click [here](https://www.mcgill.ca/pgme/files/pgme/exemple_-
_retour_de_service_au_nb_-_poste_carms_-_mcgill_2025.pdf) to view a copy of
the Return of Service Agreement for New Brunswick. For more information on the
return of service commitment, please contact:

 Michelle Anne Duguay

Conseillere principale, Ressources medicales et Affaires francophones /

Senior Advisor, Physician Resources & Francophone Affairs

Planification des effectifs en sante/ Health Workforce Planning

Ministere de la Sante / Department of Health

(506) 453-8159

[MichelleAnne.Duguay@gnb.ca](mailto:MichelleAnne.Duguay@gnb.ca)



Eligible contingent regulier candidates in Quebec may submit their
applications for a spot (and not only those who did their undergraduate
medical education in Quebec, and held a spot via the agreement with New
Brunswick).

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

Applications can be submitted in English or French.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP must be submitted with each application.  
EITHER:

  * A copy of Canadian Birth Certificate or a copy of Certificate of Canadian Citizenship

OR

  * A copy of Permanent Resident Card (copy of both sides of the card) OR a copy of an IMM 5292, IMM 1000, IMM 5688;   
NB: the Permanent Resident card can be expired.

OR

  * A copy of Citizenship Card (copy of both sides of the card)

P.S: the passport is not an acceptable proof of citizenship.

Each year, all candidates applying in a CaRMS match must provide proof of
valid current citizenship or permanent resident status. As of the 2021 R-1
match cycle, CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate
the citizenship/legal status verification, which is usually completed by
Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) offices.

if an applicant has had their citizenship/legal status documentation verified
by any of the following organizations for the current R-1 match, the applicant
will not be required to assign a proof of citizenship/PR document (as pictured
in the screenshot below).

  * Medical Council of Canada ([MCC](https://mcc.ca/))
  * British Columbia's Clinical Assessment Program ([BC-CAP](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/clinical-assessment/))
  * Bureau de cooperation interuniversitaire ([BCI](https://www.bci-qc.ca/en/))
  * Alberta International Medical Graduate Program ([AIMG](https://www.aimg.ca/))

For further information, please check the following link on CaRMS:
[https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-
citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-)

Examinations

Additional required IMG documents

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the MCCQE Part I exam, please include the statement of
results and supplemental information report in your application.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the NAC exam, please include the statement of results and
supplemental information report in your application. The MCCQE Part II or
Certificate of Registration of the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada
(LMCC) is accepted in place of the NAC Examination.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Additional required IMG documents

Lettre de reconnaissance de l'équivalence du diplôme MD

Please provide the results of the exams that permitted you to have your
medical degree recognized and approved by the CMQ.

Graduates with the diploma of doctor of osteopathy awarded by a school of
osteopathic medicine situated in the United States providing that the school
is accredited by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the
American Osteopathic Association do not have to obtain the recognition of the
equivalence of the medical diploma by the CMQ. These graduates do not require
the MCCQE Part I, the National Assessment Collaboration (NAC), or the
Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada (LMCC) in order to apply.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: planned for January 22 & 23, 2025 via Zoom.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Selected candidates will be invited
to an interview, following which the Residency Selection Committee will
produce the CaRMS Rank Order List (ROL).  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Selection is based multiple factors including but not limited to the
following:

  1. Interview
  2. Academic standing
  3. Reference letters
  4. Personal letter
  5. Commitment to Obstetrics and Gynecology
  6. Research Interests

## Program goals

Our mission is to train a generation of knowledgeable and skilled
obstetricians and gynecologists. Successful residents will have surpassed the
requirements of the Royal College of Canada and be proficient clinicians. Many
will continue in an academic career at a national or international level.
Further, we as program strive to educate and guide our residents to be well-
rounded, and highly skilled obgyn meeting all the competences of the Royal
College of Canada.

We will promote clinical excellence in obstetrics and gynecology,
professionalism, team work, research, and a genuine desire to better oneself.

Professional responsabilities are becoming increasingly demanding and
resilience in residency is required for success in residency.

## Selection process goals

Successful applicants will be able to work both independently and as a team
and will have an interest in research, they will be resourceful, energetic,
academically strong and display superior communications skills and work ethic.
Teamwork is a necessary and paramount component of an ideal candidate.
Candidates who are innovative, quick thinking and personable would be
successful applicants to our program. Each candidate is encouraged to have a
working knowledge of French.



## File review process

Review team composition : The team composed of members from different
specialties and sites. The team includes the PD, assistant PD, Vice-Chair of
Education, resident representatives and other faculty members to complete the
team. The team meets with candidates individually for a period of ~ 15-20
minutes.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 401 - 600  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Yes evaluated   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Yes evaluated   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  yes evaluated   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Yes evaluated   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Yes evaluated   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Yes evaluated   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Yes evaluated   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Yes evaluated   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Yes evaluated   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Yes evaluated   
Other file component(s) |  The file components listed are those evaluated by the Program   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We recognize that planning electives is difficult and and we value candidates
who excel in all environments and not solely the one of their interest.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  key component   
Collegiality |  key component   
Communication skills |  key component   
Health advocacy |  key component   
Interest in the discipline |  key component   
Interest in the program |  key component   
Leadership skills |  key component   
Professionalism |  key component   
Scholarly activities |  key component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**To All CaRMS Applicants:**

Welcome! We are delighted that you are considering a career in Obstetrics and
Gynecology.

In the following pages we will give you an overview of the  different aspects
of our program.

You can find further information on our website
[www.mcgill.ca/obgyn](http://www.mcgill.ca/obgyn) or email us directly if you
have specific questions.

**Overview:**

There are many advantages in coming to train in Montreal. Without doubt this
is one of the best cities in North America. Montreal is the most "European" of
cities on this continent. It has an unique 'joie de vivre'.

The residents' contract in Quebec is generous and contributes to both the
quality of life and to the educational goals of our residents. Financial
compensation meets or equals those of most Canadian universities. Study leave,
conference leave and one month vacation are such that the residents' working
conditions are also very competitive.

Your future as an Obstetrician and Gynecologist on completion of your
residency at McGill is assured. You will have graduated from an
internationally recognized, highly respected and demanding program. Our
graduates have been welcomed in every part of North and South America and in
Europe, the Middle and Far East. It need not be said that this includes every
province in Canada.

One of the major strengths of our program is that we are an important part of
a world class university. McGill University has an international reputation as
a teaching and research institution. Members of the Department of Obstetrics
and Gynecology at McGill gain from our close collegial association with the
rest of the clinical and basic science Faculty. The relationships are
especially rewarding in our collaborative research projects.

The residency program at McGill has been gaining strength. In recent years,
the pace of change has been especially noteworthy. Our program graduates have
outstanding success with examinations, obtaining fellowships finding
employment and to win prizes at national and international meetings. Graduates
are recognized as extremely well trained "all-rounders" that have a wealth of
clinical experience and a unique research background. There are ongoing
improvements and innovations to the program. To mention a few:

  * there is generous support both financial and in terms of liberation from clinical responsibilities for resident research studies and presentations and attendance at local, national and international meetings and conferences;
  * prestigious awards: the Molson and Alexander prizes are given annually for clinical or scientific excellence
  * global health initiative with the The Dr. Alice Benjamin Global Maternal and Child Health Fund
  * mentorship program
  * a constantly expending Simulation program assisted by the Steinberg Centre for Simulation and Interactive Learning (https://www.mcgill.ca/medsimcentre/)
  * an ever evolving night float system
  * a strong and committed teaching of ultrasound
  * the roll-out of CBME
  * etc...

**Curriculum:**

McGill's ObGyn Residency is of five years' duration and in accordance with the
CBME curriculum of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

Half of PGY1 is done as part of Surgical Foundation and includes rotations in
Internal Medicine, Emergency Medicine, General Surgery, Intensive Care Unit
(ICU), Neonatology(NICU), and Ultrasound. The other half consists of 2 periods
of Night Float and 4 of core OBGYN, as resident transition into their
discipline.

The PGY2 through PGY4 provides the foundation and core training experiences in
Obstetrics and Gynecology, including rotations in OBGYN subspecialties:
Maternal Fetal Medicine, Reproductive Endocrinology & Infertility,
Urogynecology and Gynaecologic Oncology. Residents will be assigned early in
PGY2 a period of research and numerous selective and elective months in PGY4
will ensure a broad range of experience in Colposcopy, Adolescent Gynecology,
Ultrasound, Ambulatory Obstetrics and Gynecology, or Epidemiology to name just
a few.

Residents will also complete community OBGYN rotations and have the
opportunity to complete periods in rural settings (Chandler, Val D'Or,
etc...).

Lastly, trainees assumes the responsibilities of chief resident by completing
six (6) months of experience as Chief Resident, divided between obstetrics &
gynaecology and completed in PGY4 or PGY5. The senior years are also tailored
to meet the needs and future interests of the individual resident, as they
transition to independent practice.

Each year, the residents will complete 2 periods of night float as a program
requirement.

Residents are expected to complete at least one research project during their
residency for promotion, although many do many more.

**Research:**

We place emphasis on research projects that are carried out by all ObGyn
residents. We established a Clinical Research Centre which will provide
comprehensive research training to McGill ObGyn trainees with opportunities to
undertake projects within any ObGyn field and at any teaching site with
appropriate research supervisors/mentors, as appointed by the residents
Research Committee. This framework will ensure coordinated access to
epidemiological and statistical consultation and administrative personnel. It
will also provide direction and support (in terms of study design and overall
epidemiological and statistical consultation) to McGill ObGyn trainees.

Dedicated research rotations are scheduled throughout the 5 year program;
additional electives may be devoted to research if academic career interests
exist. Early on in the ObGyn residency trainees will find their research
mentors/supervisors and develop their research proposals. Statistical
consulting services are available.

Funding is available for completed projects to be presented in local, national
and international meetings.

  
  

**Seminars:**  
Each of the participating hospitals conducts its own series of seminars and
teaching sessions. In addition, there are weekly subspecialty conferences and
a weekly Academic Half-Day for all residents, which includes case
presentations, simulation, didactic lectures and journal club.

Updated on November 2020

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources  

The residency program in Obstetrics and Gynecology at McGill University takes
place at the McGill University Health Center (MUHC). The MUHC is comprised of
the Royal Victoria Hospital, the Montreal General Hospital, the Montreal
Children's Hospital and the Montreal Neurological Institute. The Sir Mortimer.
B. Davis Jewish General Hospital and the St. Mary's Hospital Centre are
additional and important training sites.

The teaching resources of these hospitals include 13,000 deliveries annually
and a commensurate level of gynecological surgical cases. The Royal Victoria
and the Sir Mortimer. B. Davis - Jewish General Hospitals are regional centers
for high-risk obstetrics and for neonatal intensive care.

The Royal Victoria Hospital has a state-of-the-art world class centre for
infertility and reproductive endocrinology. Both the Royal Victoria and Jewish
General Hospitals are referral centers for gynecological oncology.

A new minimal access surgery training lab has been established at the Royal
Victoria Hospital and gives 24 hour access for the residents to practice their
operative skills. At the Montreal General Hospital minimal access surgery lab
provides live animal surgery for training residents and fellows. This facility
is open to all residents and fellows upon personal arrangement.

Basic science research in the Department is especially active; there are 9 PhD
basic science scientists at the Royal Victoria Hospital alone. Recruiting and
funding are actively supported. This division is one of the largest, if not
the largest, of its kind in Canada.

Electronic resources: On-line searches and consultations are available.

McGill ObGyn Residency program operates a night float system where the
residents work 8 weeks of night calls (Sunday to Thursday 7 pm to 7 am) and
the weekends are shared by the residents in service. This system allows the
residents to be free during the weekday evenings and nights to be able to
study or socialize as they see fit. The system appears to work well amongst
the residents.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27507?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27507