#  University of Calgary - Family Medicine - Calgary  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 26, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 10

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Martina Barton  

Address Family Medicine  
Sheldon M. Chumir Health Centre  
8th Floor, 1213 - 4 Street SW  
Calgary , Alberta, T2R 0X7  

Websites of Interest [ Cumming School of Medicine - DFM website
](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/departments/family-medicine/home)  
[ Cumming School of Medicine - PGME ](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/pgme)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Calgary CaRMS Coordinator

Title: Program Administrator

Email: carmsuc@ucalgary.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

**PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CAREFULLY**

**SPECIAL INFORMATION FOR INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL GRADUATES :**

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) in Alberta are eligible to apply to
postgraduate IMG positions at the University of Alberta and the University of
Calgary provided they have been assessed as eligible by the Alberta
International Medical Graduate Program (AIMG) Program.

AIMG Program eligibility is valid for the specified match year only. Please
visit the AIMG Program website ([**www.aimg.ca**](http://www.aimg.ca/)) for
details on eligibility criteria and the application process.

All matched applicants must meet the licensing criteria for registration with
the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA) for postgraduate
education.

ALL matched applicants MUST successfully complete an Externship before they
can proceed to residency training. Applicants MUST be available to start the
Externship in early April 2025. CPSA licensure is mandatory for Externship.
The AIMG Program will provide information on this process to successful
applicants.

**Externship** is comprised of a mix of classroom-based orientation,
workshops, academic sessions and clinical assessment. Externship will start
with an **AIMG Orientation**  for matched applicants.

Family Medicine Externs will then complete an **8  week Externship** that
consists of experiences in Family Medicine and Internal Medicine.  
  

Also please note: **DFM Orientation** and **Clinic and EMR Orientation** will
occur prior to the 8-week Externship.

****_Residency programs determine the final outcome of Externship; the
decision is final and there is no appeal process.**   _**

**COMMUNICATION :**

The preferred manner of communicating with all applicants is via e-mail. To
facilitate communication, all applicants must ensure the email address on
their CaRMS application is accessible and correct.

We want to ensure that you have accurate information about our program and
various opportunities to meet our residents, faculty, and leadership team. We
strongly encourage applicants to check out these platforms to learn more about
the University of Calgary Family Medicine program:

  * Department of Family Medicine website: <http://www.calgaryfamilymedicine.ca/residency/>
  * Department of Family Medicine Twitter: [DFM Twitter](http://twitter.com/UCalgaryFamMed) 
  * Family Medicine Instagram: [DFM Instagram](http://www.instagram.com/UCalgaryFamMed/)
  * Virtual Meet and Greets (advertised on Canada's Portal for Residency Program Promotion - CANPREPP ([Can Prepp Events Calendar](https://link.edgepilot.com/s/c8955ff0/uZiYRu5rR0_VFgb-unGXOQ?u=https://canprepp.ca/)), our social media pages listed above, and our website). Please note: content at these Meet and Greets may overlap but each session will attempt to cover distinct topics for applicants

**Calgary IMG  Virtual Meet & Greet Dates:**

  * **Tuesday, October 22nd, 2024 - 6:00-7:00PM MST**
  * **Thursday, November 21st, 2024 - 5:00-6:00PM MST**

**Calgary CMG Virtual Meet and Greet dates (see CanPrepp Events Calendar for
details):  **

  * **Tuesday, October 22nd, 2024 - 5:00 to 6:00PM MST  **
  * **Thursday, November 21st, 2024 - 6:00 to 7:00PM MST**



**Social Sessions Q &A with Residents:**

  * **Monday, January 20th, 2025 - 1:00-3:00PM MST**

## FMProC- Requirement for 2025** **

The University of Calgary Family Medicine Program is excited to be one of the
participating Family Medicine Residency Programs to use in their selection
process the FMProC (Family Medicine Professional Choices), which is a Family
Medicine-context specific Situational Judgement Test.

All applicants will be required to write FMProC for their application to be
deemed complete. More details and information about registration for FMProC
can be found here [www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com).



**CONTRACT WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF CALGARY'S CUMMING SCHOOL OF MEDICINE**

A matched applicant must meet the appropriate criteria to start with the
Calgary Residency Training program by July 1. As stated in Clause 5.31 of the
CaRMS Applicant contract: “The Applicant acknowledges that the Faculties, in
their discretion, may disqualify the Applicant if the Applicant is unable to
begin residency training by July 1 of the year the residency training
commences”. Our Program can release an applicant from the binding commitment
if the following circumstances occur:

  * Failure to complete the pre-assessment period (AIMG externship) prior to July 1, 2025
  * Unable to obtain an MD by July 1, 2025
  * Unable to obtain an educational license/certificate/permit/registration from the applicable provincial Medical Regulatory Authority (The College of Physicians and Surgeons in Alberta) by July 1, 2025

**INTERNAL MATCH :**

The Calgary program is divided into Northwest, Northeast and South Divisions,
which are comprised of a number of home clinics. Incoming Residents must be
willing to be based at any of our Home Clinics. Placement at Home Clinics
occurs through an internal match prior to the start of Residency.



**TRAVEL REQUIREMENTS :**

It is expected that Residents in the Calgary Program utilize their own
transport when travelling to and from teaching sites, both within Calgary, and
when on rural rotations outside of the city. **A current driver's license and
access to a vehicle are mandatory in UofC Calgary FM due to the distances
between teaching sites.**

**LIFESAVING CERTIFICATIONS :**

Current certification in BLS and ACLS is a prerequisite and must be current as
of July 1, 2025. Costs for BLS, ACLS, as well as the ALARM and NRP courses are
reimbursed to Residents if taken within 90 days of starting residency (ALARM
and NRP are scheduled for the FM Calgary Residents during their first year of
Residency training). CMPA & CPSA memberships are mandatory and must be in
place before beginning residency.

**Alberta IMG Program (AIMG) Multiple Mini Interview (MMI) results:**

Multiple Mini Interviews (MMI) scores will be shared directly to the residency
programs by AIMG. MMI results are not submitted by applicants.  







* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English









* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Examination Part 1 results (I.e. score
reports) can be shared through physicianapply.ca. Please confirm you have
included the MCCQE 1 statement of results in your application package to our
Program.

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

These results are shared by physiciansapply.ca to your CaRMS application.
Please confirm you have included the NAC statement of results in your
application package to our Program.

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).



Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

**For CARMS 2025 (this cycle) Family Medicine Programs have adopted the
_[Family Medicine Structured Reference
Letter](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/sample-FM-structured-reference-letter-
CMG.pdf). _ **

**Traditional narrative letters will NOT be accepted. **

**Should your referee submit a traditional letter it will not be reviewed, and
your application may be deemed incomplete.**

Please direct your referees to the [example](https://www.carms.ca/pdfs/sample-
FM-structured-reference-letter-CMG.pdf) of the reference letter on the CaRMS
website. Applicants should also familiarize themselves with [how to
request](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408366069133-How-do-I-
request-a-Family-Medicine-Structured-Reference-Letter-) a Family Medicine
Structured Reference Letter on the CaRMS website.

A maximum of three (3) Structured References Letters can be submitted from
clinical supervisors/physician preceptors which may include fellows. **DO NOT
SEND MORE THAN**  **THREE (3),**  as they will not be reviewed.

Reference letters may be from physicians of the candidate's choice including
fellows, but please note references from Residents, Nurse Practitioners,
Physician Assistants, Midwives, and clerks will not be accepted. Referees
cannot be related to the applicant. File review will not take place unless all
three (3) reference letters have been received by the unmasking date.

All Structured References Letters must relate to work experiences within 2
years of the anticipated training start date and be descriptive and objective.
It is essential that the referee describe the extent of their contact with the
applicant and candidly speak to the professional attributes of the applicant.
Structured References Letters citing work with an applicant before July 1,
2023, will not be reviewed and will result in your application being deemed
incomplete.

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Please provide a Curriculum Vitae that includes the name and location of your
High School, Undergraduate, Postgraduate and Medical School Education
Information.

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

**If your transcript notes poor academic standing, course failure(s), leave(s)
of absence, or breech of professionalism, this must be addressed in your
personal letter under the title “Transcript Addendum”. This addendum will not
count towards your word limit for your Personal Letter. Failure to submit an
addendum if the above criteria apply will result in the application not being
considered.**



Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.



Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

A personal letter is required, maximum word count 1000 words. Instead of a
traditional personal letter, please answer the following 3 questions:

  1. What doesn’t jump out from your application package (CV, transcript, MSPR) that you want to ensure that the University of Calgary does not miss in reviewing you for Family Medicine postgraduate training? Some students have a background, identity, interest, or talent that is so meaningful they believe their application would be incomplete without it. Items may include skills, accomplishments, or experiences. Max 500 words.
  2. Advocacy for others is an integral part of family medicine. Share an example of when you demonstrated this quality in a clinical or non-clinical setting. Max 250 words.
  3. IMG applicants to our Program have a variety of clinical experiences. Our Program is interested in individuals who can provide hands-on care immediately. Please describe your most recent clinical experiences, and how they demonstrate your readiness for entry into residency. Max 250 words.

Please include an addendum (titled “Personal Letter Addendum”) at the end of
your Personal Letter explaining any poor academic performance, breech of
professionalism, course failure, leave of absence or gaps in medical training,
or if you did not graduate with your cohort. The addendum will not count
towards your work limits for your Personal Letter.

For applicants who have graduated from a medical school prior to June 2025, it
is imperative that you outline your clinical experiences since graduation
where you have had clinical decision making responsibility (i.e. not an
observership). Please include this information in an addendum as well.

Failure to submit an addendum, if the criteria apply, will result in your
application not being considered.

Detailed outline of medical practice experience

If applicable, please submit a **detailed outline** of your clinical medical
practice experience including as much detail as possible about the **setting
of clinical practice** , the **type of patients encountered** (i.e., in/out
patient, general medicine or specialty), a **summary of your
responsibilities** and the **dates when you were in practice**.

Documentation of prior postgraduate training

If applicable, please include **as much detail as possible** **regarding
specific rotations and degree of responsibility** (i.e. junior, senior
resident). If your transcript indicates academic difficulties, please address
this in your personal letter.

Medical Student Performance Record

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
submit your MSPR through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their CaRMS Undergraduate Portal

If your MSPR is in a language other than English or French, you are required
to have the document translated.

Optional - will be reviewed

Alberta IMG Clinical Assessment Placement

Candidates are required to submit their CAP results (if they have been
completed in the past two years) through their CaRMS portal for review and
verification.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: Details regarding interview dates:  
  
Virtual interviews will allow Calgary Family Medicine interviews to be held on
a variety of dates during the national interview period. We aim to accommodate
our applicants and interviewers as best as possible.  
  
**Calgary Virtual IMG Interview Dates:  **  
  

  * Wednesday, Janurary 22, 2025
  * Friday, Janurary 24, 2025
  * Tuesday, Janurary 28, 2025
  * Wednesday, January 29, 2025

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: **Notification/Invitation:**  
  
The Program will notify all applicants if they have been selected for an
interview before the end of the business day on December 20, 2024. If you DO
NOT hear from the program by 6:00pm MST on December 20th, 2024, please contact
carmsuc@ucalgary.ca.  
  
Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will be conducted by a
live virtual format for all candidates. The Calgary Family Medicine Program
will utilize Zoom to conduct its virtual interviews.  
  
Candidates will be able to choose their preferred interview date via email
sign up on a first come, first served basis. Interviews are conducted by two
interviewers (one faculty, one resident). Residents and faculty will be
present and eager to answer questions about the program.  
  
Should any technical issues arise using Zoom during an interview, a telephone
interview option will be available as a backup.  
  
We will hold virtual social events for candidates during the interview period
to provide an opportunity for the applicants to meet our residents and ask
questions about the Program.  
  
 **Social Sessions Q &A with Residents**  
  

  * **January 20th, 2025 - 1:00-3:00PM  **

The details of our interview process are available on our website: [DFM
website](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/departments/family-medicine/home)  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The first iteration of the 2025 R-1 Residency match in Alberta is restricted
to to Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) (who have obtained, or will obtain, a
medical degree by July 1 of the match year,) and IMGs.  IMGs who wish to apply
for postgraduate training at the University of Calgary have to participate in
the Alberta International Medical Graduate (AIMG) Program assessment process
and then apply in the designated Calgary IMG stream

In assessing the applicant's file and interview, we will be looking for
evidence of the applicant's interest in and suitability for FM training with a
future as an outstanding Family Physician serving Albertans. We are interested
in mature individuals with excellent communication and interpersonal skills
and with a commitment to FM. We seek applicants who are self-directed,
reflective learners with an attitude of service who have demonstrated an
ability to work in teams. Other applicant qualities of interest to us include
compassion, adaptability, role flexibility, and research or leadership
potential, and self-assessment skills. We seek applicants who enthusiastically
embrace the learning opportunities our Program presents.



## Program goals

**Mission**

  * Training future family physicians to serve the primary care needs of their communities.

**Vision**

  * Our graduates are ready to enter comprehensive and patient-centered practice with the ability to adapt to all settings in Canada.
  * Our residents are engaged learners and have the support and role-modelling to develop as resilient life-long learning family physicians.
  * Our preceptors are fully supported and model best family-medicine practice and foster their resident's development as family physicians.
  * Our program provides outstanding FM training, promotes and integrates continuous improvement and drives education innovation.

For more information on the Programs goals, please visit our website at
<https://calgaryfamilymedicine.ca/residency/index.php/program-info/program-
mission>

## Selection process goals

We are looking for and base our overall scoring on the following attributes:

  * Demonstrates an interest in and suitability for FM training
  * Demonstrates evidence of interest in caring for all people, ages, life stages, and presentations.
  * Exhibits ease and comfort working between different care settings and environments (including office, emergency room, home/long term care, and hospital)
  * The Calgary Family Medicine program encourages a broad range of elective experiences in which career interests can be explored. We do not require applicants to have done on site electives.
  * Exhibits a passion for outreach and advocacy in the community, such as working with community partners, diverse populations, and patients experiencing barriers to care
  * Demonstrates excellent communication skills
  * Demonstrates effective work in teams, including the ability to collaborate and share care with other health care professionals
  * Exhibits evidence of research potential; contributes & supports the scholarly environment
  * Exhibits self-awareness; manages influences on personal well-being and professional performance
  * Displays high professional standards

## File review process

Review team composition : Family Medicine Program Leadership

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 201 - 400  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Locations/timeline of education, FM leadership/volunteer activities/research & Professional memberships   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Calgary Family Medicine program encourages a broad range of elective experiences in which career interests can be explored. Electives in Family Medicine are not required for admittance to our FM program. We do not require applicants to have done on site electives.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  See exam section   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Participation in sports, music activities, entrepreneurial/previous career ventures   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  FM-related leadership and advocacy activates   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Academic standing, strength of rotation comments, evidence of course failure(s), leave(s), breeches of professionalism   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstration of suitability for training in Alberta; demonstration of adaptability   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Duration of contact with applicant, professional attributes, quality of comments relating to FM and CanMEDS   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Relevance and relationship to primary care/FM   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Location of education, previous degrees, evidence of course failure(s), and leave(s) of absence   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Elective Requirements: Calgary Family Medicine program
encourages a broad range of elective experiences in which career interests can
be explored. Electives in Family Medicine are not required for admittance to
our FM program. We do not require applicants to have done on site electives.

On Site Elective: We DO NOT REQUIRE applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  As per the CanMEDS role criteria   
Collegiality |  Assessed by Collaboration and Professionalism CanMEDS role questions   
Communication skills |  As per the CanMEDS role criteria   
Health advocacy |  As per the CanMEDS role Criteria   
Interest in the discipline |  Suitability to and the applicants’ understanding of the role of a Family Physician is considered   
Interest in the program |  Suitability to practice in the province of Alberta is considered   
Leadership skills |  As per the CanMEDS role criteria   
Professionalism |  As per the CanMEDS role criteria   
Scholarly activities |  As per the CanMEDS role criteria   
Other interview component(s) |  Punctuality: Applicant attended on time, was prepared, & provided appropriate notice of unforeseen circumstances   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  Collaboration between the Rural and Calgary programs will occur as
applicable.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**The Teaching  Experience**

  * We have a triple-C competency-based curriculum, introduced in 2012.
  * First block of Residency is devoted to an introduction to the profession by a rotation called FM Core, which consists of orientation to the program, core teaching and specific clinical skills (e.g. courses such as ALARM, participation in an Opioids Skills Day), and Family Medicine home clinic
  * Enthusiastic and consistently highly rated Preceptors at all of our teaching sites
  * Resident involvement in ongoing curriculum development and in Program leadership
  * Safe, supportive, and collaborative learning environments, including our well-established home FM clinics
  * The opportunity to follow and manage your own group of patients in home clinics
  * Weekly academic half days designed to enhance your learning experience
  * Patient-Centered Care Labs focused on communication skills and doctor-patient relationships
  * FM-focused off-service teaching and learning
  * A leading edge Resident Assessment Program with a focus on assessment **for**  learning; includes a new electronic assessment platform (FMeCAP) that allows the completion of assessment tools online (e.g. Field Notes), and includes a dashboard that shows a resident’s personal progress towards program completion
  * CCFP exam preparation sessions, including practice SOO sessions in both years (currently virtual), and access to an online SAMP study platform in second year
  * The opportunity for residents to develop their teaching skills through formal academic lectures devoted to the topic, participation with the undergraduate FM interest group, teaching clerks in FM home clinics, and medical education electives (formed in collaboration with UME)

**The Clinical Experience**

  * Two to four and half days a week in your core FM Home Clinic for 6 blocks in the first year and 6 blocks in the second year
  * Immersion rotations in Palliative Care, Pediatrics, Internal Medicine, Obstetrics/Low Risk, Hospitalist Medicine, Care of the Elderly, MSK, Adult and Pediatric Emergency, Psych Emergency Medicine
  * Focused teaching in Urgent Care, Hospice, Community Palliative Care, and Home Care in first and second year
  * Opportunities for longitudinal experiences in Indigenous Health in first year for those interested
  * Eight weeks in rural settings in Southern Alberta in second year
  * Four weeks elective time in first year and 8 weeks in second year
  * Scheduled “Plus” weeks during FM blocks designed to provide supplemental learning in specific domains of care (Adult, Child, Mental Health, Addictions)

**The Resident Experience  **

  * A 4-week FM Core Block at the start of first year, to find your feet and set you up for a successful residency
  * A Program that is supportive and prioritizes our Residents’ well-being.
  * We have resident representation on all Program leadership committees
  * Strong resident leadership opportunities, including numerous positions on our Resident Leadership Committee (RLC)
  * We have a Wellness Curriculum that teaches residents a basic skill set relating to the maintenance of wellness, and allows protected time away from clinical duties to practice those skills
  * Up to 8 days Educational leave for conference attendance and research work during residency
  * The City of Calgary and surrounding areas are your playground during training! Rivers, sunshine, snow (with chinooks which warm things up in the winter), and quick access to Rockies = we are a Program that values a healthy lifestyle and fun!

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Overview**

Our Program underwent a full Accreditation review by the CFPC in 2022 with
very positive results.

Like all FM Residency Programs in Canada, we have reviewed and redesigned our
curriculum, effective July 2012, so that it is very clearly Centered in FM,
based on Continuity of care and education, and focused on graduating
outstanding Family Physicians who can provide Comprehensive care ('Triple C').
The College of Family Physicians of Canada Triple-C curriculum model can be
found at <http://www.cfpc.ca/triple_C/>.

Our curriculum is based on competency acquisition. The Program provides you
with the learning opportunities and resources that result in the skills and
competencies you require as a practicing Family Physician. You “learn the
right thing, from the right people in the right place, at the right time”.

Your Home Clinic will be your educational home for the duration of the
Program. In this clinic you will learn with your FM Competency Coach and
associated clinic Preceptors 2 to 4.5 days per week throughout 6 blocks in
first year and 6 blocks in second year. By basing your learning in your Home
Clinic, you will develop and maintain continuing care for a group of patients
for which you are responsible – your patient panel. From the moment you begin
the Program, you start building your skills and identity as a Family Physician
and by the end of your training the patients for whom you have been
responsible, will and should recognize you as “their” Family Doctor.

We are a medium-to-large sized Residency Program with approximately 70
incoming Residents each year.  There are currently more than 160 Calgary
Program Residents.  In order to maintain a small Program feel where your
colleagues and Program staff know you, we are operationally organized into 3
Divisions.  These Divisions are geographically organized based on the
locations of our FM Home Clinics \- Northeast, Northwest, and South.  Each
Division has a Division Director and Division Coordinator to support your
learning.

**Curriculum  **

The Program is Centered in FM and focuses on providing experiences of
Continuity of care and education and on graduating outstanding Family
Physicians able to provide Comprehensive care for patients, wherever they are
('Triple C').

This Program has been in existence since 2012 when we completed a major
curriculum review and redesign. The Program is a blend of longitudinal FM
experience, ambulatory clinical experiences (ACEs), hospital immersion
rotations, and electives.

**Learning experiences have been reviewed and updated based on Resident and
Preceptor input.   We have undergone a review of our curriculum in 2020 to
ensure that the educational content we are providing to our residents remains
appropriate and high quality. We have made changes that benefit residents in
the following ways: scheduling more consecutive blocks of FM rotations,
modifying FM rotations to accommodate more days in Home Clinic, modifying our
outpatient and ambulatory care experiences, and reducing travel for our
residents. **

We have a leading edge Resident Assessment Program that has, as one of its
founding principles, the concept that assessment is **for**  learning, not
just **of**  learning. We have moved away from summative assessments at the
end of rotations to an assessment system that monitors progress of a
Resident's learning over 2 years.

**If this sounds appealing to you, then please read on. The following two
sections outline the Resident experience on a weekly basis. Detailing the type
and frequency of learning you will do during the program.   **



 **First Year  **

  1. A “FM Core” Block in the first 4 weeks of Residency  
  2. Five additional FM based blocks
  3. Six blocks of immersion rotations including Obstetrics/Low Risk, Internal Medicine, Psych EM, Adult EM, and Pediatrics 
  4. One block of electives

**Second Year**** **

  1. Six FM-based blocks, including two blocks of Rural FM at a site in Southern Alberta  
  2. Five immersion blocks –Hospitalist, Care of the Elderly, 2 weeks MSK & 2 weeks Low Risk Obstetrics Call, Palliative Care, and Pediatric Emergency 
  3. Two blocks of Electives - you may select ICU and/or CCU/cardiology for one or two of these elective blocks

## **Program Conferences and Scholarship Day**

Two Resident conferences (Fall and Spring) and a Scholarship Day are held each
year in conjunction with the Rural Family Medicine residents. Costs for the
conferences are covered by the Program.  The conferences provide opportunities
for team-building as well as providing more time to focus on specific aspects
of FM with invited speakers and different educational formats.

Scholarship Day is held each Spring and is an opportunity for residents to
showcase their QI projects.

The Conferences and Scholarship Day are also an opportunity for Residents from
all streams of the program to meet up and share experiences.





## **Research/Evidence Based Medicine/Quality Improvement/Patient Safety  **

The Program provides the clinical and didactic learning experiences around
critical appraisal, evidence-based medicine and quality improvement for you to
graduate with the skills you will need as a future Family Physician. You
complete a Quality Improvement project in both first year and second year.

## **A****c****ademics**  

**Academics  **

We provide weekly half-day academics throughout your Program. All academics
seminars supplement your clinical learning.  Topics are drawn from the 105
“Priority Topics/Learning Objectives” listed for the CCFP exam and the
CanMEDS-FM roles. To help with preparation for the CCFP exam, we provide
practice sessions for the Simulated Office Oral (“SOO”) and the Short Answer
Multiple Problem (“SAMP”) written component.

* * *

# Training Sites

## FM Home Clinics

There are 11 "Home Clinic" FM Teaching Sites associated with our Calgary
Program. Each offers a solid educational experience in FM and provides you
with an “educational home”.

All sites have enthusiastic and experienced preceptors with electronic medical
records. Almost all are located within the city of Calgary with three in
nearby communities (e.g. Airdrie and Black Diamond)

Sites represent varied “cradle to grave” patient populations - from inner
city, to ethnically diverse. Detailed descriptions of all sites are located on
our Program website:
<http://www.calgaryfamilymedicine.ca/residency/index.php/program-info/sites-
home-clinics>



## Plus Weeks

Each FM "Plus" block includes an increased amount of time in the Home Clinic.
For 3 weeks, residents spend 4.5 days per week in the FM Home Clinic and an
Academic half day. A Plus week is a themed learning experience in environments
relating to domain of care (e.g. Care of the Adult, Care of the Child)

Examples of Plus week experiences include: Community Pediatrics offices,
Dermatology, ENT, Neurology and Women’s Health Clinics.



## **Rural FM  Sites**

In the spring of your first year, you will participate in a mini-ranking
process for your second-year rotations, including your rural site. We provide
a number of teaching sites across Southern Alberta as well as the potential
for a remote northern site.

* * *

# Additional Information

During elective experiences, it is possible to travel out of province or out
of country.

The UofC Department of FM is pleased to offer a number of Enhanced Skills
Programs for those Residents who wish to expand their training upon graduation
from the 2-year Program, including Emergency Medicine, Anesthesia, Sports
Medicine, Palliative Care, Care of Elderly, Addictions Medicine, Maternal and
Newborn Care, Sexual and Reproductive Health, Health Equity and Chronic Pain.
Applications to our Enhanced Skills Programs are accepted from R2 Residents
across Canada in September/October each year.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26485?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26485