#  University of British Columbia - Urology - Vancouver  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on October 02, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Christopher Nguan  
Dr. Thomas De Los Reyes  

Address Urologic Sciences  
University of British Columbia  
Room 6109, 2775 Laurel St  
Vancouver, British Columbia, V5Z 1M9  

Work  604-675-2425

Websites of Interest [ UBC Dept of Urologic Sciences
](http://urology.med.ubc.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Timea Oroszi

Title: Ms.

Email: Timea.Oroszi@ubc.ca

Phone: 6046752425

  

* * *

# Important Information

Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada: Applying competency-based
practices to residency education

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/competence-design-e), aims to enhance
patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving
patient needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education
process.

CBD will use [time as a
framework](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e)
rather than the basis for progression. It is not anticipated that the duration
of training will change for the majority of trainees. Residency programs will
be broken down into
[stages](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/documents/cbd/cbd-competence-
continuum-diagram-legal-e.pdf), and each stage will have a series of
milestones based on required competencies. These milestones will create more
targeted learning outcomes and involve more frequent, formative assessments
within the clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving
feedback on the skills they need.

Note that UBC Urology has initiated curriculum implementation of CBD in 2018
and all new recruits to the program will enter CBD training.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and
traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification. Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs
will include the completion of a Royal College examination; however, residents
in CBD programs will also be assessed against program milestones throughout
their training. Within a CBD program, all milestones (documented within an
electronic portfolio) and the Royal College examination must be successfully
completed to achieve certification.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).

\---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Le Collège royal des médecins et chirurgiens du Canada : Intégrer l’approche
par compétences à la formation des résidents

Le Collège royal des médecins et chirurgiens du Canada a lancé une initiative
qui intègre l’approche par compétences à la formation médicale postdoctorale
spécialisée et à la pratique professionnelle pour favoriser la réussite des
médecins canadiens et améliorer la prestation de soins de qualité aux
patients. Cette initiative, [La compétence par conception
(CPC)](http://www.collegeroyal.ca/rcsite/competence-design-f), vise à adapter
la formation médicale et l’apprentissage à vie des médecins aux besoins
changeants des patients et permettre aux apprenants de s’« approprier » leur
processus d'apprentissage pour améliorer les soins aux patients.

La CPC mesurera l’acquisition progressive des compétences [dans un cadre
temporel](http://www.collegeroyal.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-f),
mais n’utilisera pas la durée de la formation comme base d’acquisition. Nous
ne nous attendons pas à ce que la durée de la formation change pour la plupart
des stagiaires. Les programmes de résidence seront divisés en plusieurs
[étapes](http://www.collegeroyal.ca/rcsite/documents/cbd/cbd-competence-
continuum-diagram-legal-f.pdf), et chaque étape sera assortie d’une série de
jalons liés aux compétences requises. Ceux-ci permettront de cibler les
résultats d'apprentissage et de procéder à des évaluations formatives plus
fréquentes en milieu clinique pour que les résidents développent les
compétences requises et reçoivent une rétroaction pertinente.

Les programmes qui adopteront la CPC seront encore soumis aux mêmes processus
d’agrément rigoureux que les programmes traditionnels. Les programmes sous la
CPC (et les programmes traditionnels) mèneront à l’obtention d’un certificat
du Collège royal. Les stagiaires inscrits aux programmes sous la CPC et aux
programmes traditionnels obtiendront leur certificat s’ils réussissent
l’examen du Collège royal; cependant, les résidents des programmes sous la CPC
seront aussi évalués en fonction des jalons établis par leur programme tout au
long de leur formation. C’est donc dire que les stagiaires inscrits à un
programme sous la CPC doivent avoir réussi tous les jalons (consignés dans un
portfolio électronique) ainsi que l’examen du Collège royal pour obtenir leur
certificat.

Pour plus d'information, écrivez à l'adresse
[cbd@collegeroyal.ca](mailto:cbd@collegeroyal.ca).





* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Please contact the Program Assistant to find out information such as UBC Open
Houses, and the Program FAQ regarding questions from previous applicants
answered by our residents and faculty.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required.

References written by senior residents will be accepted.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A compelling personal letter is required with personal statement of career
ambitions and goals. Any further pertinent information is encouraged.

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

The UBC Urology Postgraduate Training Program ("the Program"), recruits new
trainees through the CaRMS system annually and all faculty and residents are
invited to take part in providing input throughout the process.

Equity and diversity are essential to academic excellence. An open and diverse
community fosters the inclusion of voices that have been underrepresented or
discouraged. We encourage applications from members of groups that have been
marginalized on any grounds enumerated under the B.C. Human Rights Code,
including sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression,
racialization, disability, political belief, religion, marital or family
status, age, and/or status as a First Nation, Metis, Inuit, or Indigenous
person.



* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: Urology Fair held in Toronto typically the
final weekend of January or the first weekend of February.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Candidates wishing to arrange on-site
interviews in Vancouver (instead of the Urology Fair) should contact the
Education Coordinator for the UBC Department of Urologic Sciences at
604-675-2425.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Selection criteria are based on a review of academic records, letters of
reference, curriculum vitae and personal statement of career ambitions and
goals.  An outstanding academic record is required in addition to a
demonstrated interest and aptitude for urology and surgical procedures.

## Program goals

The mission of the UBC Department of Urologic Sciences Postgraduate Training
Program is to nurture leaders in Urology and launch careers. The UBC
Department of Urologic Sciences encompasses 5 main academic training hospitals
and over 30 key opinion leaders in Urology as mentors throughout the training
duration. We endeavor to develop graduates who go on to become leaders in
their communities, their hospitals, departments, associations, and globally.
This may take the form of Urology advocacy and teaching, or Hospital and
Health administration, or Health economics and business, or academic research
innovation. We mentor our trainees to become excellent Urologic Surgeons and
also support their graduation into exceptional subspecialty Fellowships and
Faculty positions thereafter.

## Selection process goals

The successful applicant to the UBC Urologic Sciences training program will
demonstrate qualities of commitment, resilience, 'grit', amicability and
teachability. We recognize that surgical training programs place stresses on
candidates lives in multiple domains including: relationships, family,
emotional/psychological/physical health and personal development. The
successful candidate must be willing and able to negotiate the oftentimes
difficult lines between external stressors of training and personal growth and
satisfaction, which can be at odds on occasion. The successful candidate will
likewise also recognize that Urologic training is an intermediate to a
lifetime of career opportunity and personal fulfillment. Amongst all traits to
be possessed by the applicant, the most treasured is that of teachabilty; the
ability to listen actively, to learn from seeing, to ask questions and remain
inquisitive, and to rapidly integrate those learnings into practice in facile
manner.  In our program, we generate excellent Urologic surgeons through
enormous clinical caseload and close mentorship in the OR and clinics, but our
emphasis is in launching careers built on CanMEDS intrinsic roles as well as
value add training including advocacy, entrepreneurship, governance, committee
work, technical/outcomes/basic research and business development. These
domains are taught with an intent to equip the UBC graduate with the skills
required to effectively launch a career and any domain of their choosing.

## File review process

Review team composition : The DUS Program Selection Committee is comprised of
3 faculty members including the Head and Program Director, and two additional
residents (1 senior, 1 junior). All faculty and residents are invited to
provide input throughout the selection process however.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  well rounded individual demonstrating high academic, leadership and teachability   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  an appropriate survey of the Urologic landscape and appreciation for the domains of Urology   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  in comparison with peer results   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  development of outside interests, leadership potential, team functioning, innovation   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  leadership of teams, leadership in innovation, in teaching, in community   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  baseline function   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  ability to craft a personal story of why Urology is a compelling career choice. As well, in UBC’s strategic plan, inclusion has been identified as one of our key priorities. We welcome colleagues with the experiences and competencies that can contribute to our principles of inclusion, equity, and diversity throughout resident life. Please tell us about your experience working within a diverse environment and your contributions to creating/advancing a culture of equity and inclusion on campus or within your discipline.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  baseline function   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  required to a certain extent   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  baseline function   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

With changes handed down from AFMC as of 2020-21 and now 2021-22 academic
years, we understand that there are restrictions on out of Province electives
that are beyond the applicant's control.  The advice of the Program is for
applicants to continue to monitor OOP elective situations closely in their
application years and be prepared to take every opportunity to complete on
site electives if it all possible. Barring this, virtual contact with faculty
and residents will also be considered ahead of the CaRMS interview.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  ability to work with disparate groups of individuals and teams   
Collegiality |  ability to maintain collegiality in demanding environments   
Communication skills |  ability to effectively communicate in succinct, clear, direct and informative manner   
Health advocacy |  an interest in promoting the holistic health and well being of Urology patients and advancing the specialty as a whole   
Interest in the discipline |  a discussion of the whys of Urology   
Interest in the program |  a good working knowledge of the UBC Urology Program   
Leadership skills |  demonstration of capacity for leadership in any domain   
Professionalism |  demonstration of professionalism without fail   
Scholarly activities |  recognition of academic / extracurricular or personal achievement is of interest   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

We acknowledge and are grateful to live and work on the unceded territory of
the Coast Salish Peoples, including the territories of the xwməθkwəy̓əm
(Musqueam), Skwxwú7mesh (Squamish), Stó:lō, and Səl ̓ílwətaʔ/Selilwitulh
(Tsleil-Waututh) Nations.

##  

## ABOUT UBC

The University of British Columbia (UBC) is a global centre for teaching,
learning and research, consistently ranked among the top 20 public
universities in the world and recently recognized as North America’s most
international university.

Since 1915, our motto, _Tuum Est_  (It is Yours), has been a declaration of
our commitment to attracting and supporting those who have the drive to shape
a better world. As a result, UBC students, faculty and staff continue to
embrace innovation and challenge the status quo, placing us at the forefront
of discovery, learning and engagement. UBC encourages bold thinking, curiosity
and initiative, so you can realize your greatest potential.



## Vision

Inspiring people, ideas and actions for a better world.

## Purpose

Pursuing excellence in research, learning and engagement to foster global
citizenship and advance a sustainable and just society across British
Columbia, Canada and the world.

##  

## Values

### Excellence

A profound and aspirational value: the quality of striving to be, and being,
outstanding.

### Integrity

A moral value: the quality of being honest, ethical and truthful.

### Respect

An essential and learned value: regard felt or shown towards different people,
ideas and actions

### Academic freedom

A unique value of the academy: a scholar’s freedom to express ideas through
respectful discourse and the pursuit of open discussion, without risk of
censure.

### Accountability

A personal and public value: being responsible for our conduct and actions and
delivering upon our respective and reciprocal commitments.

##  

##  

## ABOUT VANCOUVER



  * Vancouver is consistently ranked one the world’s most livable cities. The bustling downtown core is just minutes from world-renowned ski resorts, pristine beaches and natural forest.
  * Vancouver is called “Hollywood North” because of the large number of movies and TV shows filmed in and around the city. These have included _The X-Files_ , _Mission Impossible_ , _Twilight_ , _X-Men_ , and _Fifty Shades of Grey._ Visit Tourism Vancouver’s new [film portal](https://www.tourismvancouver.com/vancouver/filmed-in-vancouver/) for more information.
  * In January 2018 Vancouver was named among the best cities to live and work as a movie maker by [Movie Maker Magazine](https://www.moviemaker.com/archives/best_of/best-places-to-live-and-work-as-a-moviemaker-2018-big-cities/3/) _._
  * Vancouver has produced top artists, actors and musicians including Michael Bublé, Sarah McLachlan, Wanting Qu, Michael J. Fox, Ryan Reynolds, Seth Rogan, Jeff Wall, Douglas Coupland, and Jason Wu.
  * Hootsuite, Flickr, Lululemon, Plenty of Fish, and Lions Gate Films are all companies that were founded in Vancouver. Non-profit environmental organizations Greenpeace and Adbusters also started here.
  * In an age of instant global communication, Vancouver is fortunate to be in a time zone that allows access to all three centres of world commerce (London, New York, Hong Kong) in a single working day.
  * Vancouver’s award-winning airport (ranked best in North America for the tenth consecutive year) is less than half an hour from downtown and is connected by a light rail train called the Canada Line that was built for the 2010 Olympic Winter Games.
  * Vancouver has hosted major international events including Expo ’86, the Vancouver 2010 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games, the 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup, the HSBC Canada Ruby Sevens, ISU World Figure Skating Championships, the World Junior Hockey Championships.
  * The City of Vancouver has set the ambitious goal of becoming the [world’s greenest city by 2020](http://vancouver.ca/green-vancouver/greenest-city-action-plan.aspx).
  * Vancouver is well-known for urban planning and design. In fact, “Vancouverism” has become global shorthand for sustainable urban development.
  * Vancouverites’ enjoyment of the mountains and ocean has spurred development of a performance and technical apparel industry that is conquering world markets (notable companies include Lululemon, Arc’Teryx, Hershel, Native and RYU).
  * Vancouver embodies multiculturalism not as a slogan but as part of everyday life. The city is renowned for world-class cuisine that fuses cultural ingredients and influences with local sourcing and sustainable practices.



## **A SAMPLING OF RANKINGS**

  * Capital of Food: Vancouver – _The Economist_ ’s _1843_(2018)
  * Best Places to Live and Work – _Movie Maker Magazine_(2018)
  * 2nd Best Country Globally: Canada – _US News & World Report _(2017)
  * #1 Highest-Rated Destination Site for a Business Meeting – STR’s DestinationMAP (2017)
  * Best in Destinations Canada – _Travel Weekly_ Readers’ Choice Awards (2017)
  * 2017 Destination of the Year: Canada – _Travel + Leisure_(2017)
  * Best Cities in the World – _Conde Nast Traveler_(2017)
  * #1 Startup City in the World – PeoplePerHour Startup City Index (2017)
  * 3rd Most Liveable City in the World – Global Liveablity Report (2017)
  * Favourite Canadian City – Travel Press Agents’ Choice Awards (2017)
  * One of the World’s Best City Beaches: English Bay – _The Guardian_(2016)
  * Best Destination in Canada – _Travel Weekly_ Readers’ Choice Awards (2014, 2015)
  * Top 10 cities in the USA and Canada - _Travel + Leisure_ (2013)
  * Best quality of living in North America, fifth best quality of living in the world – Mercer (2012)
  * Best Airport in North America – The World Airport Awards (2011)
  * World’s most livable city – Economist Intelligence Unit (2010)

** **

**INNOVATIVE COMPANIES BORN IN VANCOUVER**

  * Hootsuite – social media management system with more than seven million users in 175 countries.
  * Arc’Teryx – technical outdoor apparel company
  * Lululemon – yoga wear company
  * Herschel Supply Co. – trendy backpacks and duffel bags (sales soared by 900 percent between 2010 and 2011)
  * Flickr – image and video hosting website
  * Slack – productivity and communication platform for organizations
  * Plenty of Fish – free online dating website employing 66 people in Vancouver
  * Mountain Equipment Co-Op – outdoor recreation apparel cooperative founded in 1971, now across Canada
  * Lions Gate Films – one of the most successful film distributors in the world, founded here in 1997
  * Greenpeace – international environmental organization, founded here in 1972
  * Indochino – online menswear company
  * Native – purveyors of foam form shoes.
  * Six Hundred Four – a boutique shoe gallery with shoes designed by local artists. A chunk of the proceeds go to charity

** **

#### VANCOUVER BY NUMBERS

  * PlentyOfFish employs over 75 staff in Vancouver, and deals with the romance of 60 million users
  * HootSuite has close to 1,000 staff located in Vancouver and worldwide, and more than 15 million users in more than 175 countries
  * Vancouver boasts more than 1,500 yoga classes a week—not bad for a city of only 600,000
  * Amazon has 50,000 square feet of office space set to open by 2020, and aims to add 1,000 tech jobs
  * Going local: 49% new local food and green jobs have been introduced since 2010
  * By 2020 the city will require all new buildings to be constructed with carbon neutral operations. Since 2007, there has been a 43% decrease in greenhouse gases (per square mile) from new buildings.



Check out the official City of Vancouver Tourism Blog here:
https://www.insidevancouver.ca/



Here's how Vancouver is becoming one of the most environmentally sustainable
cities in the world:



With soaring mountains and a glittering skyline reflecting the Pacific Ocean,
Vancouver is a  
delight for outdoor adventurers. Naturally, we’re protective of our land. All
22 kilometres of  
walkable waterfront and 230 (and counting) parks. It’s no wonder Lonely Planet
named  
Vancouver one of the world’s most sustainable cities. But we have our sights
set on becoming  
the most sustainable destination on the planet. By 2050, 100 percent of our
energy use will be  
derived from renewable sources, according to the Renewable City Strategy
(keeners that we  
are, we’ve already topped 90 percent). Zero Waste 2040 is another important
vision, which  
outlines our plan to achieve zero waste by 2040. With businesses, individuals
and government  
uniting to achieve these ambitious targets, it’s only a matter of time before
Vancouver is as  
green as the nature that surrounds it.



Electrifying ascent

Harbour Air Seaplanes, the world’s first and only fully carbon neutral  
airline, swept the world into the third era of aviation – the electric age –
when it developed and  
flew the first electric commercial aircraft in December 2019. In partnership
with magniX, the  
flight of the De Havilland Beaver seaplane soared into history books from
Harbour Air’s terminal  
at Vancouver International Airport. The next step: electrifying the entire
fleet of 40-plus  
seaplanes, and setting a(nother) global standard for electric aviation. All in
a day’s work for the  
humble seaplane service, which was founded 30 years ago with two small planes
offering  
private charters to the forest industry.



The latest buzz

Let’s be serious: we wouldn’t be here without bees (and other pollinators,
like  
butterflies, birds and even bats). In fact, they play a critical role in local
ecosystems, carrying  
pollen on their bodies in a vital dance that allows for reproduction among
flowering plants – the  
same plants that produce one-third of our food, capture carbon and prevent
soil erosion.  
Wanting to give back to the bees that keep us alive, the Vancouver-
headquartered David Suzuki  
Foundation issued a call for Canadians to become Bee-bnb hosts. By rolling out
the welcome  
mat with amenities like natural wildflower gardens, water sources and nesting
spaces,  
Vancouverites can help pollinator populations thrive. Visitors, don’t feel
left out: you can be part  
of the buzz by staying at bee-friendly hotels like The Fairmont Waterfront,
whose rooftop  
gardens are a summer home for nearly a quarter of a million honeybees.



Regenerative revolution

Seeking a sustainable stay in Vancouver? No need to leave the  
airport: Fairmont Vancouver Airport is one of the city’s greenest champions,
with eco-friendly  
initiatives designed to protect the planet and support regional producers. One
example is a  
partnership with Rehoboth Farms, an organic chicken farm that helps the hotel
divert up to 200  
kilos of coffee grinds from landfill every week (your morning joe is a
surprisingly effective  
fertilizer). The hotel is also the first in the Lower Mainland to take part in
“Soap for Hope”, a

national program that gives new life to partially used bathroom amenities:
bars of soap are

scraped and packaged, and sent to vulnerable communities in need of hygiene
products, while  
bottles of shampoo and body wash are shipped to homeless shelters, women’s
shelters and  
senior homes across the Lower Mainland and Vancouver Island. The program
diverts an  
average of 1,069 kilos from landfill per month, demonstrating the power of a
little creativity (and  
a lot of unused shampoo).



Building a greener future

Green buildings and construction is the number one employer in  
Vancouver’s green economy. And we need all hands on deck, with our city
pledging to transition  
to zero emission buildings in all new construction by 2030. Our love language
is zero emission  
infrastructure, and you’ll see these odes to the environment built into the
foundation of our most  
significant buildings and businesses:

⮚ Vancouver International Airport (YVR) has committed to achieving net zero
operations by  
2030, no small feat for one of North America’s busiest airports. But it’s no
blue-sky  
thinking: YVR is already carbon neutral, and has introduced initiatives like
Project Green  
YVR, which helps businesses in surrounding Sea Island reduce their waste,
water and  
energy use; and the Wildlife Management Program, which conserves skyborne
wildlife  
through surprising sources like trained raptors(!).

⮚ VanDusen Botanical Garden is more than a pretty face: the 55-acre oasis is
home to a  
state-of-the-art visitor centre whose striking design is almost as impressive
as its  
pioneering planet protection. The net-zero building uses renewable sources
(geothermal  
boreholes, solar photovoltaics and solar hot water tubes, for starters),
filtered rainwater,  
and plenty of wood to achieve carbon sequestration (fun fact: a hardwood tree
can  
absorb up to 48 pounds of carbon dioxide each year). Go for the gardens, stay
for the  
sustainability.

⮚ Vancouver Convention Centre (VCC) is double LEED Platinum certified, the
highest  
certification in the category (and, to set the bar higher, it’s also the first
convention centre  
in the world to earn the LEED Platinum honour). A quick scan shows why:
Canada’s  
biggest six-acre living roof, with more than 400,000 indigenous plants and
grasses; a  
restored marine habitat that improves water quality; a seawater heating and
cooling  
system; and local wood products harvested from sustainably managed forests.

⮚ Vancouver-born Mountain Equipment Co-op (MEC) is a loyal advocate for the
vast  
outdoors its gear was designed to explore. Each of the company’s Vancouver
locations  
is LEED Gold certified (now a baseline for commercial construction in
Vancouver), with  
heating and cooling achieved through geo-exchange systems, solar panels
flooding the  
interiors with natural light, and rainwater collected and stored for future
use.

⮚ When it was completed in 2017, Brock Commons Tallwood House at the
University of  
British Columbia – designed by Acton Ostry Architects Inc. – soared taller
than any wood  
building in the world. It’s a shining example of mass timber construction, on
which  
Vancouver architect Michael Green presented a TED Talk urging the global
building  
community to adopt mass timber construction using sustainable forestry. In
addition to  
offering an eco-friendly alternative to steel and reinforced concrete, mass
timber reduces  
and sequesters carbon dioxide emissions – so you can breathe easy knowing you
have  
cleaner air and a sustainable place to live and work.  
  

⮚ Bonus! Green Buildings Audio Tours shares tales of Vancouver’s greenest
buildings, told  
by architects, project managers and sustainability consultants. Download the
tours in  
podcast form, log onto the website or dial in through your phone wherever you
see a

Green Buildings Tour sign in the city.  
Spearheading sustainable tourism Destination marketing organizations (DMOs)
are well  
positioned to champion sustainable change. In fact, they have an obligation to
lead and promote  
responsible tourism. And we should know – in 2016, Destination Vancouver
introduced a new  
role that was previously unseen in DMOs, one dedicated entirely to sustainable
destination  
development. Since then, our sustainability star Gwendal Castellan has
collaborated with  
tourism businesses across the city to find ways they can reduce or eliminate
emissions, reduce  
waste and recyclables to landfill and conserve water. And that’s how we’re
helping visitors help  
us keep our city green, clean and protected for future residents (and
travellers).  
Care to share? The sharing economy (think Airbnb, Uber and the library) is
emerging as a  
powerful road to sustainability and community connection. By choosing to share
everything from  
vehicles to recreation equipment, we can help to end overproduction and
redirect society  
towards making only what’s needed (pretty simple, right?). Vancouver is home
to several  
sharing economy business models – as noted by the Vancouver Economic
Commission –  
including Quupe, an app invented by four friends who lost track of the items
they constantly  
loaned each other; Ruckify, an online marketplace that plants one tree for
every use of their  
services; Mobi by Shaw Go, a bike-share program whose fleet tops 2,000 bikes;
and Modo, a  
co-op whose members have pooled over $6 million to buy and share cars. There’s
also the  
Vancouver Tool Library and the Thingery, as well as options to borrow beyond
books at the  
Vancouver Public Library (musical instruments and people, for starters).
Affordable and  
sustainable? Sign us up.

Eco-friendly entertainment Newsflash: Vancouver is a global pioneer of
sustainable film  
production. Case in point: Vancouver Film Studios recently became the first
carbon neutral film  
studio in the world, and local company Portable Electric is powering
productions with zero  
emissions thanks to battery power stations called VOLTstacks™. There’s also
Reel Green,  
produced by provincial film organization Creative BC, which uses scientific
research to outline  
best practices for the motion picture industry to reduce environmental
impacts. Each year, the  
Sustainable Film Production Forum addresses industry sustainability, calling
for solutions to  
reduce its overall environmental footprint. And Green Spark Group is a local
consultancy that’s  
helped to green Vancouver-made movies like Disney’s Noelle and the Fifty
Shades of Grey trilogy

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Curriculum  
  

The UBC Department of Urologic Sciences provides training in all aspects of
urology including uro-oncology, renal transplantation, endo-urology, pediatric
urology, reconstructive urology, urodynamics and andrology/infertility.  The
duration of the program is five years following medical school graduation.

Strengths of the program include a very high volume of clinical material
covering all aspects of urology.  Especially strong training is available in
urologic oncology and transplantation.  Separate pediatric urological
rotations are mandatory.  A very high pass rate has been obtained on the Royal
College examinations over the past 25 years.

We do not have a mandatory rural rotation.  We offer elective time in the
PGY-4 year which can be rural, urban community, or academic.

Curriculum follows RCPSC Urology CBD format.
(<http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e>)

Research  
  

All residents have ongoing research projects under the preceptorship of the
staff Urologists.  Active research is being carried out in uro-oncology,
pediatric urology, reconstructive urology, urolithiasis, bibliometrics and
outcomes assessment.  No formal rotations are assigned to laboratory research.
Residents are well supported by the Department to attend local, national and
international meetings to present their research projects.

  
  

Seminars  
  

Academic activities include weekly grand rounds, weekly chapter review rounds
and a blend of resident seminar rounds, radiology rounds, uropathology rounds
and professor's rounds during a weekly academic half day.  The academic
schedule is prepared by the incoming PGY5 residents in conjunction with the
program director.  In addition, there are weekly case-based and indication
rounds conducted at each of the teaching hospitals.

On an annual basis mock oral and OSCE examinations are conducted for all
PGY3-5 residents and on a weekly basis for residents in the final year of
preparation for Royal College examinations.

Evaluations are carried out by in training reviews, mock oral examinations and
by the annual American Urological Association In-Service Examination.

  
  

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

-Vancouver Hospital & Health Sciences Centre (VGH Site)

-Vancouver Hospital & Health Sciences Centre (UBC Site)

-St. Paul's Hospital

-Mount St. Joseph's Hospital

-B.C. Children's Hospital/B.C. Women's Hospital

-B.C. Cancer Agency

-Community Hospitals (Richmond, Lions Gate, Royal Columbian, Surrey, Langley, Peace Arch, Chilliwack, Eagle Ridge, Ridge-Meadows, Abbotsford)

* * *

# Additional Information



Funding is available for residents to attend a number of meetings and review
courses through the five year program.

Funding is provided for the first year residents to obtain surgical loupes and
custom Program apparel.

Textbooks, journal subscriptions and society memberships are paid for by the
Department.



* * *

# FAQ

There are typically two uro-oncology fellows training at VGH site.  There may
be one endourology fellow depending on the year.  There may be one fellow in
pediatric urology depending on the year.

UBC offers a Clinical Investigator Program for residents who wish to pursue
research training or obtain a graduate degree during or after the residency.







* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27027?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27027