#  McMaster University - Cardiac Surgery - Hamilton

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Iqbal Jaffer  

Address Department of Surgery-Cardiac Surgery  
McMaster University  
1280 Main Street West  
Hamilton ON L8S 4L8, Ontario  

Work  905-521-2100 x44453

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Resident driven website ](https://www.maccardiac.com/)  
[ Department of Surgery - Division of Cardiac Surgery
](http://surgery.mcmaster.ca/divisions/cardiac-surgery)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Iqbal Jaffer

Title: Program Director

Email: iqbal.jaffer@medportal.ca

Phone: 905-521-2100 Ext. 44453

  

Name: Amanda Woolley

Title: Senior Education Program Associate

Email: cardiac@mcmaster.ca

Phone: 905-521-2100 x 44453

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/).  It is important to review the
requirements carefully.

 To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit:
<https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/>

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Examinations

Optional - will be reviewed

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 31, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held on **Friday,
January  31st **via Zoom. Applicants will be contacted directly with schedule
and zoom link details.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Candidates will be interviewed
individually by at least five members of the Residency Program Committee.
Interview duration will not exceed 30 minutes.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

An exceptional academic record, with proven interest in cardiac surgery
demonstrated by elective choices and research activities.

A strong applicant will have a demonstrated interest in basic sciences or
clinical research. While we do not require applicants to do electives at
McMaster University, we strongly encourage multiple electives within the
field.

Letters of references reflecting a candidate's strong interpersonal skills,
interests, motivation, professionalism, and learning ability.

## Program goals

Our program is a single site residency program with one of the largest volumes
in Canada. As such, there is a large degree of direct interaction between
staff and trainees, and the program is built on a foundation of mentor-mentee
system.

It is our objective and our mission, that throughout your training, you will
learn and apply the CanMEDS competencies, so that by end, you will become a
skilled consultant, capable of diagnosing and managing patients with an array
of cardiovascular diseases. You will be an expert in both surgical management
and perioperative management of your patients. Additionally, all residents are
will partake in academics and extra-curriculars beyond the surgical
requirements, and explore interests in medical education, research, and/or
administrative studies, with the eventual goal of having a career in cardiac
surgery that extends beyond the operating room.

## Selection process goals

Our program is best suited for applicants who have demonstrated a strong
interest in Cardiac Surgery. You must show a continual desire to learn and
improve, along with a thirst for knowledge. Hard-work and a strong work ethic
are highly sought after.

A keen interest in research and/or other academic endeavours are strongly
recommended. Successful applicants will also highlight extra-curricular
activities that show them to be well-rounded individuals, with interests and
hobbies beyond the cardiac sciences.  

## File review process

Review team composition : Residency selection committee -  
Three cardiac surgeons; program director/academic chair, research director,
and one attending.  
Three residents; the chief resident, one senior resident (resident lead for
CBME and curriculum committee), and one junior resident.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  
We receive 14 to 18 applications.

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  
We aim to interview 50% of the applicants, but will invite more if
applications are deemed strong.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Awards, accomplishments, and highlighted extra-curriculars.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Candidates must demonstrate that they have clinical experience to ensure they are making an informed decision about entering a surgical specialty.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Highlight activities that demonstrate hobbies and interests outside of medicine and surgery.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Experience in leading teams in a variety of settings.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Must not have any remarks of concerns or issues with professionalism.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Highlight how and why you chose cardiac surgery. Demonstrate insight into your choices and highlight them with respect to your goals.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Will be reviewed for professionalism and attestment to character.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Not mandatory, but demonstrates an interest in the field.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Must not have any failed rotations or remarks of concerns.   
Other file component(s) |  Notes on CV: We consider the awards, accomplishments and highlighted extra-curriculars to be the most important after personal letters and reference documents.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Understands the importance of working in a team, and how to interact with potentially difficult persons.   
Collegiality |  Kind, respectful, and professional. Good listening skills.   
Communication skills |  Clear and concise. Rationale and reasoning for answers verbalized.   
Health advocacy |  We do not evaluate this interview component.   
Interest in the discipline |  We do not evaluate this interview component.   
Interest in the program |  We do not evaluate this interview component.   
Leadership skills |  Demonstrate understanding of nuances of leading a group of diverse individuals. Especially in a crisis.   
Professionalism |  Dress in professional and appropriate attire. Evidence of good moral reasoning in face of difficult situations.   
Scholarly activities |  We may ask questions around difficult, but common, cardiac surgery cases.   
Other interview component(s) |  Our interview process aims to judge your ability to think on the spot, and react in a calm and collected manner in a stressful environment.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 6 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Program Overview**

For a glimpse of the McMaster Cardiac Surgery residency experience (the
accounts are run by our residents), refer to:  
IG/Twitter - @MacCVSx  
  
Our training program prides itself in direct interactions between residents
and attending staff. We are the busiest center in Ontario with an annual pump
case volume of over 1500. The large volume provides significant clinical
exposure for residents with no competition for OR time.  
Our surgeons have expertise – and residents have great exposure to – aortic
cases (including Bentalls, ascending aorta, hemi-arch, arch replacements +/-
frozen elephant trunk), Ross procedure (our center is leading the Revival
trial), minimally invasive surgeries (any valve or coronary bypass), off-pump
CABG, structural heart disease (TAVI and Mitra-clip), etc.

Our residents follow an academic-surgical pathway. Residents are encouraged to
consider their interests and all available options. In the past, residents
have taken time to do PhD or Master’s in basic sciences, clinical
epidemiology, knowledge translation, health research methodology, etc. While
the enrichment year (taken in either 3rd or 4th year) provides dedicated time
for research, additional academic productivity is a must throughout residency.
We provide support to our residents with an established team of mentors and
mentees via the in-house MiNION-CIA research group.

**Junior Years**

  
The **junior cardiac surgery**  rotation will expect the resident to learn to
perform sternotomy, cannulate the patient for cardiopulmonary bypass, harvest
conduits for coronary artery bypass such as the long saphenous vein and the
left internal mammary artery. The resident will assume a gradually increasing
role in performing parts of coronary artery bypass procedures.

The **vascular surgery**  rotation will provide additional opportunity for the
resident to perform arterial anastomoses. In addition, the resident will be
exposed to management of conditions involving venous disorders and acute
ischemia.

During **thoracic surgery** , the resident will learn to perform thoracotomy
incisions and have the opportunity to perform bronchoscopy, mediastinoscopy,
thoracoscopy, lung biopsy, apical bullectomy and tracheostomy. He/she will
assist in pulmonary and esophageal resections.



**Senior Years**

The **senior year in cardiac surgery**  will provide the resident with a large
volume of cardiac surgery. Upon its completion, the resident will be capable
of independently performing coronary artery bypass surgery and valve
repair/replacement. He/she will have gained experience in "redo" surgery.
There will be maximal resident exposure to procedures that are performed less
frequently, such as those involving aortic root enlargement, aortic arch
surgery, pericardial resection, emergency cases such as aortic dissections and
ruptured VSD repair, and specialized cases such as mitral valve repair and
pulmonary thromboendarterectomy.

The **pediatric cardiac**  surgical rotation will occur at the Hospital for
Sick Children in Toronto. He/she will take part in a large number of different
procedures, some palliative, some staged and some definitive.

**PGY-1**  
Rotations during PGY-1 year include: Transition to Practice and Foundations of
Discipline; adult cardiac surgery, vascular surgery, general surgery (trauma),
cardiology rotations (Consults, Imaging, Echo, EP).

**PGY-2**

Rotations during PGY-2 year include: Foundations of Discipline; adult cardiac
surgery, cardiac anaesthesia, ICU, cardiac catheterization, CCU.

**PGY-3**

The PGY-3 year is an academic enrichment year.

**PGY-4**

Rotations during PGY-4 year include: adult cardiac surgery, cardiac
catheterization, thoracic surgery and vascular surgery.

**PGY-5**  

Rotations during the PGY-5 year include: pediatric cardiac surgery, adult
cardiac surgery and electives based on career goals (VAD, Cath, Peds).

**PGY-6**

The final training year is spent as senior resident in adult cardiac surgery.

**Research**

The academic enrichment year (PGY-3) provides an opportunity for research.
Additional involvement in research projects is required during residency
training.

**Seminars**

The cardiac surgery service has weekly teaching rounds – didactic or hands-on
– on Friday mornings. Additionally, every Wednesday morning we host cardiac
surgery grand rounds where residents are expected to present on a rotating
basis. These rounds include – but are not limited to – mortality morbidity,
ongoing research, newly published works, etc.

Simulation

We have one of the most formalized simulation curricula in Canada. We have
institued a Mastery Learning based simulation curriculum that includes
obtaining proficiency at: ECMO cannulation, Aortic Dissection, Mitral Valve
Repair, TAVI, and aortic root procedures. We are continuing to iterate and
grow this program and are hoping to expand the curriculum to encompass the
bulk of the difficult to obtain activities within cardiac surgery.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Training Sites**

Hamilton General Hospital – Primary Site

McMaster University Medical Centre (Surgical Foundations)

St. Joseph's Hospital (Thoracic Surgery)

The Hospital for Sick Children – Toronto (Pediatric Cardiac Surgery)

University of Alberta - Edmonton - (Pediatric Cardiac Surgery & VAD/Heart
Failure)

Dalhousie University - Halifax - Pediatric Cardiac Surgery

The Cardiac Surgery program at McMaster Univ. is focused on residency training
rather than fellows which allows the learners to have more one on time with
the Cardiac Surgeons on staff and the other residents in the program. There is
a large degree of direct interaction between the staff and learner. There is
flexibility given when choosing rotations, electives and research/scholarly
choices which suits the learners career goals.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26842?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26842