#  University of British Columbia - Family Medicine - Abbotsford-Mission  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on November 08, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 8

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Joshua Greggain  

Address Faculty of Medicine – Department of Family Practice  
300-5950 University Boulevard  
Vancouver, British Columbia, V6T 1Z3  

Websites of Interest [ UBC CaRMS Website ](http://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Jana Ogdenova

Title: Program Co-manager

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Kelly Jacobs

Title: Program Co-manager

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Cindy Choi

Title: Education Coordinator

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Rhea Casis-Ignacio

Title: Site Coordinator

Email: Rhea.Ignacio@fraserhealth.ca

  

Name: Dr. Holden Chow

Title: Co-Site Director

Email: j.holden.chow@fraserhealth.ca

  

Name: Dr. Monika Wojtera

Title: Co-Site Director

Email: monika.wojtera@alumni.ubc.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Prospective residents should refer to the [Family Medicine Residency
Selection](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/) website for ongoing updates,
deadlines and detailed information.  
  

FMProC: Important timelines

For the 2025 residency selection cycle ALL FM residency programs in Canada
require applicants to sit FMProC for those applying in both rounds of CaRMS.



FMProC test window for CaRMS first Iteration is from **October 28 (8AM ET) to
November 11, 2024 (10AM ET).  **

Registration opens from **September 11 (12 noon ET) and closes on November 07,
2024 (10AM ET).  **

** **

To register and find out more about the test please go to**
****[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/)**. All test related updates will
be posted on the website.

Requests to register or to sit the test outside of the posted deadlines will
not be considered.



**Upon completion of FMProC,  you must upload** your FMProC result letter to
CaRMS for your application to be considered complete.

** **

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Resident selection for the UBC Family Medicine program is a collaborative
process between all of our sites. Logistics and administration of resident
selection is managed by our central program office in Vancouver, located at
the UBC Point Grey Campus.

As the UBC Family Medicine Program is distributed into 23 unique sites and
locations, candidates should apply to each site they are interested in.  
Applicants must submit same application package to all sites to which they
apply.  

Regardless of the number of sites applicants apply to and rank, **only one
interview will be conducted**.

A variety of virtual information sessions will be held to provide prospective
residents with the opportunity to learn more about the programs and discuss
the training experience with faculty and current residents. Please visit
[Program Events](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/interviews-and-program-
events/) for upcoming events.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



Examinations

Required

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required.

  * Regardless of reference source, reference letters should speak to an interest in Family Medicine and aptitude for the discipline.
  * Using anecdotal narrative if possible, letters should provide evidence of attributes and abilities well suited for a career in Family Medicine.
  * These attributes and abilities are also evaluated in our interview process (see interview criteria and components).

Note: Traditional narrative letters will **NOT**** ** be accepted.  
Please note that should your reference submit a traditional letter it will not
be reviewed and your application may be deemed incomplete.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360018302672-What-documents-can-and-cannot-be-shared-transferred-from-physiciansapply-ca) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

_Provide a biographical letter (max. 750 words) that includes answers to the
following questions:_

_1.__    What life skills or lived experience do you have that demonstrate
your suitability for family medicine residency training?_

_2.     Why would a career in Family Medicine be a good fit for you?_

_3._    Why UBC? Why British Columbia? _Please elaborate with specific
examples of any connections you might have with the province of B.C., like
community connections, education, work experience, etc.  
  
_

_ _      _**Note: The same letter must be submitted with each site
application.**_

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 18, 2025
  * January 19, 2025
  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025
  * January 25, 2025
  * January 26, 2025
  * January 27, 2025
  * January 28, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: 2025 R-1 match interviews will continue to
be in a virtual format.  
  
The national interview period is January 18- February 09, 2025.  
**UBC interviews** will take place between the dates of **January 18-28, 2025.
**  
  
Please note that candidates will be interviewed once, regardless of number of
training sites you apply to.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All interviews will be conducted in a
live, synchronous MMI format. The UBC Family Medicine (FM) program will
contact the selected applicants by email to provide program-specific interview
details and interview links.  
  
If you wish to add a new program/site to your rank list after your interview,
you must update your CaRMS application by our **Program deadline, January 29,
2025**. This date will be posted here as soon as it is determined.  
  
Any additional sites added to your application after this date will not be
considered for ranking.  
  
  
**Important** : you must also link your documents to any newly ranked site.  
  
Regardless of the number of sites to which you apply, one final score will be
generated after the interview.  
If you are matched, the program will be unable to facilitate transfer from one
site to another.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Applicants must submit an application to each site they are interested in and
should assign the same set of documents to each site. Selection is based on
file review and one set of MMI interviews. Each file is reviewed and given a
score. This file review score determines whether a candidate is offered an
interview. The file review score is then combined with the interview score and
FMPROC score to create a total score for each applicant. **The file review
score will contribute to 20%, interview score will contribute to 75%, and
FMProC  will contribute to 5% of the overall global score**. A recommended
rank list based on the total score is submitted to each site for
consideration. The sites retain discretion to adjust the recommended rank list
based on local site selection committee input.

## Program goals

  1. To graduate residents who have developed the competencies needed to begin independent family practice in diverse community settings
  2. To deliver an effective academic, clinical and scholarly educational program
  3. To graduate residents who are inspired, resilient, and balanced
  4. To graduate residents who demonstrate evidence-based and reflective practice
  5. To provide working and learning environments that ensure residents, faculty and staff feel respected and supported

## Selection process goals

  1. Identify individuals with an aptitude for family medicine who are most likely to thrive in our diverse residency sites and in the unique context of British Columbia communities
  2. Identify individuals with a demonstrated solid foundation of clinical skills and clinical approach which equips them for Postgraduate Education training.
  3. Identify individuals who have consistent professional behavior; who interact appropriately with patients, colleagues and staff.
  4. Identify mature, motivated individuals with a broad range of life experience which they can draw upon to adapt to the demands of residency training.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is composed of faculty leadership
from across our distributed program, the program director and senior
administration.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 601 +  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership skills are considered in the context of the personal letters and reference letters   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Taken into consideration only if professionalism issues are identified   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstrated suitability to Family Medicine and training in BC through experience and life skills   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Demonstrated suitability through attributes, abilities and interest in the discipline   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
Other file component(s) |  Note: The MSPR and transcripts are required supporting documents by CaRMS but are not scored as part of the UBC Family Practice file review process.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We do not evaluate this component

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Yes: with patients and colleagues   
Collegiality |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Communication skills |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Health advocacy |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Interest in the discipline |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Interest in the program |  Yes: UBC in general, and in specific programs (rural, under-served populations, inner-city context etc.)   
Leadership skills |  Yes: assessment of leadership of self and others   
Professionalism |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Other interview component(s) |  Ability to handle Ambiguity/Uncertainty  
Advocacy/Compassion  
Resilience  
Patient centeredness  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  Connection with Abbotsford/Mission community.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  • File does not support interest in family medicine  
• Interview suggests lack of non-cognitive family medicine skills  
  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

### **Uniquely B.C:  UBC Family Medicine**

[Family Medicine training in BC](https://postgrad.familypractice.ubc.ca/)
presents you with many unique opportunities. We are a fully accredited
distributed program with 23 training sites and multiple training communities.
In an effort to meet the evolving needs of our society, each site provides a
solid foundation in the knowledge and clinical skills of Family Medicine so
that our graduates are prepared to practice in a variety of settings. While
our program offers diversity of training, it is based on [common goals,
learning objectives, and assessment
standards](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/program-info/).

All residents are required to do a [mandatory 2-month rural
rotation](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/resident-resources/rural-
rotation/) in Family Medicine in their second year. Residents in the Coastal,
or rural programs in the Okanagan or the North complete longer rural
placements. Residents can also apply to participate in Enhanced Rural training
for a total of 4-6 months in rural communities.

There is extensive [academic and administrative
support](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/about/program-matrix/) for the
entire residency program. Our central program administrative team is based in
Vancouver on UBC campus. At the site level, leadership teams are made up of a
Site Director, Site Faculty, Lead Residents and administrators. Lead Program
Faculty provide provincial education support in the areas of curriculum,
assessment, faculty development, scholarship and behavioral medicine.

The Family Practice Postgraduate Education Committee has representation from
all sites to ensure a connected, distributed program that fully meets
accreditation standards. Residents are represented at all levels of
governance.

A wide range of amazing recreational and cultural opportunities are at your
doorstep, as well as a collegial community of residents and physicians with
whom you can learn, grow, and play. We want your experience to be in BC to be
a positive and enjoyable one.

### **Training Sites: Overview**

Visit the [UBC Family Medicine Postgraduate website
](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/)for a detailed overview of each of the 23
sites and their surrounding communities.  Each site provides opportunities to
experience Family Medicine in their unique context, offering special
opportunities to gain experience and skills unique to the area where you are
training.

The following is a list of our sites and their base community/hospital. Each
site serves the surrounding community (see [training
sites](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/training-sites/interactive-map/) for
full details):



**Greater Vancouver / Lower Mainland**

  * Abbotsford-Mission
  * Coastal (North Vancouver, Lion’s Gate Hospital)
  * Chilliwack
  * Indigenous (Greater Vancouver and rural Indigenous communities)
  * St. Paul's (Downtown Vancouver, Inner City)
  * Surrey South Fraser (Surrey Memorial Hospital)
  * Vancouver Fraser (New Westminster, Royal Columbian)



**Interior Region**

  * Kootenay Boundary (Trail, Nelson, Rossland, Castlegar)
  * Kelowna Rural (Kelowna R1 year; rural communities across BC in R2 year)
  * Kelowna Regional
  * North Okanagan (Vernon)
  * Okanagan South (Penticton)
  * Kamloops



**Vancouver Island**

  * Indigenous (Victoria, Ladysmith and rural Indigenous communities including Pacheedaht, Penelakut, ‘Namgis)
  * Quw'utsun (Duncan)
  * Nanaimo 
  * Strathcona (Comox, Campbell River and Courtenay)
  * Victoria



**Northern**

  * Fort St. John (Northeast)
  * Northern Rural (Prince George R1 year; rural communities across BC in R2 year)
  * Prince George
  * Rural Immersion (Hazelton, Smithers, Vanderhoof, Mackenzie, Valemount/McBride, Chetwynd/Tumbler Ridge)
  * Terrace (Rural Northwest)



**IMG positions are offered at the following sites:**

  * Abbotsford-Mission
  * Chilliwack
  * Coastal
  * Fort St. John
  * Kamloops
  * Kootenay Boundary
  * Nanaimo
  * North Okanagan
  * Okanagan South
  * Kelowna Rural
  * Kelowna Regional
  * Prince George
  * Strathcona
  * St. Paul’s
  * Surrey South Fraser
  * Vancouver Fraser
  * Victoria

### **Resident Support**

Resident resilience and wellness is our top priority. Important
[resources](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/resident-resources/resident-
wellness-and-safety/) have been developed by our program to support our
residents throughout the course of the training.

All UBC programs are allocated a fixed amount of funding per resident for
Resident Activities.  This funding is used to provide educational support to
residents during their 2 years of training. This includes funding for
residents to attend program-wide courses and events. Additionally, residents
may identify conferences and educational materials that would supplement their
training experience. A discretionary, per resident funding will also be
allocated to the sites for a similar purpose at the site level.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Welcome to the Abbotsford-Mission Site!  **

Are you looking for a residency program that allows you to cater your learning
to your personal areas of weakness – or areas of interest? One that prepares
you to work in ANY community? What about a program that gives you a chance to
work side-by-side with preceptors who want you to become their colleagues?

Well – you will find that (and more!) in our program, located in the
neighbouring cities of Abbotsford and Mission, BC.  We hope you will consider
our site, which is known for its great teaching, innovation, and supportive
community. Our graduates have moved on to work in all aspects of Family
Practice serving communities across the country.

The majority of training occurs at the Abbotsford Regional Hospital and Cancer
Center (ARH), a 300-bed facility, and your home Family Practice community
clinic located in either Abbotsford or Mission.

Family Physicians are the main healthcare providers in this region. You will
be placed in a community clinic which will be your home base for two years.
You will also be trained in acute care at Abbotsford Regional Hospital.
Training at ARH includes a Hospitalist Rotation covering 160 beds (FP
Hospitalists), a busy Maternity ward with over 2,500 births per year (FP
Obstetrics), a tertiary Palliative Care unitand one of the province’s busiest
Emergency Departments run by FP-EM colleagues. Residents also receive
specialty teaching from preceptors in Cardiology, Internal Medicine,
Pediatrics, Surgery, Orthopedics and Psychiatry. Additional community
educational opportunities include Youth Clinic, Prison Medicine, and
Addictions.

Most importantly, we have a group of dedicated family doctors and specialists
who are committed to your education. Because we have a small number of
learners and do not compete with other resident disciplines, you get one-on-
one teaching, lots of opportunities to perform procedures, and see a large
number of patients. Residents have a lot of responsibility!

** **

**Purpose/Objectives**

The goal of our program is to make sure we graduate competent, committed,
happy, and healthy family doctors.  We look forward to seeing you here!  



**PGY-1 Overview**

We use a ‘partially integrated’ model. This means that in your first year, you
will rotate through core rotations, but will be back in your FP offices for a
half-day each week, as well as for dedicated FP blocks. This ensures that you
stay well-grounded in Family Practice and develop continuity with your
patients. This ability to stay connected with one’s Family Practice office is
one of the strengths of this program.  

**Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location / Notes**  
---|---|---  
Family Practice Community |  16 weeks  |  Community Family Practice offices in Abbotsford and Mission  
Pediatrics  |  4 weeks  |  ARH and community   
Emergency Medicine * |  4 weeks  |  ARH   
Surgery  |  4 weeks  |  ARH    
FP Obstetrics/Gynecology  |  4 weeks  |  ARH and community  
Internal Medicine * |  4 weeks  |  ARH    
Cardiology Consult |  4 weeks  |  ARH and community  
Psychiatry |  4 weeks  |  ARH and community  
FP Hospitalist |  4 weeks |  ARH  
Anesthesiology |  2 weeks |  ARH  
Nephrology |  2 weeks |  ARH  
  
*Includes Nephrology

Residents have 4 weeks of vacation annually; 2 weeks taken in each 6-month
period. Vacation weeks can only be taken in rotations of 4-weeks or more.

Thursday mornings are dedicated to core academic curriculum.

Residents will spend a half-day per week in Family Practice offices.



**PGY-2**

**Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location / Notes**  
---|---|---  
Family Practice  |  12-16 weeks  |  Community Family Practice offices in Abbotsford and Mission  
Rural Family Practice  |  8 weeks  |  Approved rural sites in B.C.   
Electives  |  12-16 weeks  |     
FP/ MSK/Orthopedics |  4 weeks |  Community / ARH  
 Palliative |  4 weeks |  ARH  
Addictions |  2 weeks  |  Surrey   
Pediatrics  |  2 weeks  |  ARH and Community   
Emergency Medicine |  2 weeks  |  ARH, Mission, or Hope  
  


**Academic Half Day**

We pride ourselves in our Academic Half Day program. We take advantage of this
time to reinforce, supplement, and emphasize topics that are of importance to
Family Medicine. These sessions are designed to be interactive, and there is
always a Family Physician present to and maintain relevance to residents. We
also use these days for simulation, teaching procedures, wellness sessions,
and resident-led lectures. Attendance is mandatory, and resident participation
is expected.



**Scholar**

In the first year, residents complete a quality improvement project.
Throughout the two years, residents complete a scholar project and present
their work at a local Scholarship event.



**Out of Province and International  Electives**

Residents can do one month of out-of-province or international electives
during their training, subject to the guidelines set by the Program.



**Enhanced Skills Opportunities**

Third-year training positions are available in the areas of Emergency
Medicine, Anesthesia, Palliative Medicine, Sports and Exercise Medicine, Care
of the Elderly, Obstetrical Surgical Skills, Clinician Scholars program, and a
wide range of other Category 2 Enhanced Skills programs.

* * *

# Training Sites

Abbotsford is a city located in [British
Columbia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/British_Columbia), near the
[Canada–United States
border](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canada%E2%80%93United_States_border),
the [Greater Vancouver](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greater_Vancouver)
region, and the [Fraser River](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fraser_River).
With an estimated population of 176,000
people[[2]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abbotsford,_British_Columbia#cite_note-
www12.statcan.gc.ca-2) it is the largest municipality in the province outside
[Metro
Vancouver](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greater_Vancouver).[[4]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abbotsford,_British_Columbia#cite_note-
www12.statcan.ca-4) Abbotsford-Mission has the third highest proportion of
visible minorities among census metropolitan areas in Canada, after the
[Greater Toronto Area](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greater_Toronto_Area) and
the [Greater Vancouver](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greater_Vancouver). It
is home to the [University of the Fraser
Valley](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_the_Fraser_Valley) and
[Abbotsford International
Airport](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abbotsford_International_Airport).​

Abbotsford has direct access to the Trans-Canada Highway, and is minutes from
the Sumas US border crossing.  Known as the "City in the Country", Abbotsford
blends urban amenities with rural comforts. City of Abbotsford:
[http://www.cityinthecountry.ca/](https://owa.fraserhealth.ca/owa/redir.aspx?REF=MExTaTonv4MNYQ-4yPn-
VNZcOac126iz2iXsxjZDVD0FMNI5SHbYCAFodHRwOi8vd3d3LmNpdHlpbnRoZWNvdW50cnkuY2Ev)

Mission (population: approx. 38,000) is a short 15-minute drive from
Abbotsford across the Fraser River.  
District of Mission:
[http://www.mission.ca/](https://owa.fraserhealth.ca/owa/redir.aspx?REF=Btp2Zk3tDX6Y8s6iGTbxAzXyPTx1_GeZ6eZUJQy81jYFMNI5SHbYCAFodHRwOi8vd3d3Lm1pc3Npb24uY2Ev)



**Resources:**

[Abbotsford Regional Hospital and Cancer
Centre](http://www.fraserhealth.ca/about_us/building_for_better_health/abbotsford_regional_hospital_and_cancer_centre/)
is a publicly-funded acute care hospital with 300 beds. As a regional
hospital, this world-class medical centre provides services to the Eastern
Fraser Valley communities including renal and cardiac care units, a NICU, a
trauma service, nuclear medicine, both CT and MRI capabilities, and a six-bed
adolescent mental health treatment centre.



* * *

# Additional Information

Check out the Abbotsford-Mission Residency website here:

<https://abbotsfordfamilymed.com/>



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26723?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26723