#  University of British Columbia - Ophthalmology - Vancouver  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 20, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Nawaaz Nathoo  

Address Ophthalmology  
Eye Care Centre  
2550 Willow Street  
Vancouver, British Columbia, V5Z 3N9  

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences
](http://ophthalmology.med.ubc.ca/education/residency/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Parul Simon

Title: UBC Ophthalmology Residency Training Program Administrator

Email: opth.education@ubc.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

In fall 2023, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada completed
a review of our Residency Program. This process provided our program with
accreditation status of 'Accredited program with follow-up by Action Plan
Outcomes Report'. We welcome this endorsement of the progress that our program
has made over the past few years and look forward to continuing towards an
even stronger program in collaboration with our departmental stakeholders,
residents, faculty and administration.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. We prefer that references are from
faculty who know the candidate in a meaningful manner; letters from outside of
our discipline **are** acceptable (e.g. from a non-ophthalmologist), but we
strongly prefer letters who are from _clinical_ faculty.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  550

Maximum :  600

  

A personal letter outlining the reason the candidate has chosen to apply to
ophthalmology is required.  At UBC Ophthalmology, we value equity and
inclusion, as well as diversity of thought, ideas and experiences.  Although
not mandatory, applicants may choose to use this section to make the selection
committee aware of lived experiences not covered in other areas of their
application.  In total, the personal letter is typically 550 - 600 words.

Ophthalmological Report

An ophthalmologist report stating candidate's visual status is required.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 31, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: The interview date for all applicants to
the UBC Ophthalmology program will be on Friday, Jan 31, 2025. The interviews
will take place virtually.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The Resident Selection Committee will
contact short-listed candidates for personal interviews. A personal interview
is mandatory for selection to this program. The interview date will not be
flexible.  
  
2025 CARMS interviews will be conducted virtually. Each candidate will rotate
through two or three interview teams. The interviews will be 15 - 20 minutes
per team.  We expect to interview between 15 - 20 candidates.   In addition,
virtual tours of the facility will be available.  There will also be an
opportunity to spend time with some of our current Ophthalmology faculty and
residents.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

All the application packages are reviewed by the residency selection
committee. The applications are graded and the candidates achieving the
highest score are short-listed for an interview. Usually, we interview 15 - 20
candidates.

## Program goals

At UBC, we are committed to training physicians who will ultimately be
providing the highest quality, patient-centered ophthalmologic care and become
engaged members of our program, department, profession, and communities.

  
Residents in our program are expected to demonstrate clinical and academic
excellence, exceptional  
interpersonal and teamwork skills, research experience, and a sense of
responsibility and dedication to the medical  
profession & humanity at large.  Residents are expected to be active community
members and demonstrate balance as  
evidenced by engagement in volunteer, extracurricular or other types of
activities.

At UBC, we rely on the entire province for training. Therefore, the ability to
complete rotations 'away'  
from your home base is expected.

Please see <https://ophthalmology.med.ubc.ca/education/residency-update-
playground/> for further information.  

## Selection process goals

1) To identify applicants interested in ophthalmology & visual sciences, and
those who will develop into exceptional ophthalmologists.

  
2) To identify applicants who have demonstrated ability to interact
appropriately with patients, colleagues,  
and healthcare team members alike.

3) To identify applicants who have demonstrated attributes highlighted in the
Royal College CanMEDS roles.

  
4) To identify applicants who have demonstrated ability and enthusiasm to
learn and are able to adapt to the  
various demands of residency training.

5) To identify applicants who have a strong track record of enhancing the
communities in which they live, learn, and practice.

## File review process

Review team composition : Our review team is composed of the residency program
director, associate program director, and a variety of staff & resident
ophthalmologists from our program representing diverse individual and
professional backgrounds.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Leadership/community engagement, research, teaching, elective experiences   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Clinical evaluations   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering (medical and non-medical) and other extra-curricular activities   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Holding office in a paid or volunteer capacity in organizations within or outside of medicine   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstration of interpersonal skills, clinical evaluations   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in discipline   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive interactions with colleagues and patients. We encourage letters from clinical supervisors (whether from an ophthalmologist or from a different discipline) who have had meaningful interactions with the student.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest and ability to participate in future research projects   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance, clinical evaluations   
Other file component(s) |  Any MCC exam results   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high-quality patient care through working in a team environment.   
Collegiality |  Behaviour, attitude and the ability to work well with others.   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak and write in English.   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrate commitment to promoting health and well-being of patients.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrate interest and ability in the speciality. Evidence for compassion.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrate interest in UBC program, setting and serving British Columbians.   
Leadership skills |  Ability to initiate programs, lead organizations or groups, and make an impact.   
Professionalism |  Correspondence with staff and residents. Behaviour during interview.   
Scholarly activities |  Critical thinking and problem solving.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**To produce a high-quality Ophthalmologist, a multi-faceted individual who
has:**

  * The ability to exercise sound clinical judgment and skills in dealing with ophthalmic medical, surgical and optical problems.
  * the ability to communicate with patients
  * the ability to recognize their limitations and has the desire to continue to update their knowledge
  * the highest ethical standards of the profession.
  * the opportunity to develop strong research skills
  * the opportunity to develop teaching skills.
  * the ability to adequately prepare for professional examination.

Competence by Design (CBD) is the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Canada’s major change initiative to reform the training of medical specialists
in Canada. It is based on a global movement known as Competency-based medical
education (CBME), and is led by the medical education community. The objective
of CBD is to ensure physicians graduate with the competencies required to meet
local health needs. It aims to enhance patient care by improving learning and
assessment in residency.

In 2023, all post-graduate ophthalmology programs across Canada have begun the
transition to CBD.  Residents will progress through 4 stages of training over
the 5 years of their ophthalmology residency at UBC:

  1. Transition to Discipline: Provides an orientation to the program, the clinical learning environment, etc. In this stage, residents in our program spend 1 month in various adult and pediatric ophthalmology clinics.
  2. Core: Develops the resident’s fundamental knowledge and skills in medicine and surgery to assess and provide initial management of patients presenting with a broad range of common presentations relevant to Ophthalmology. In this stage, residents rotate through a variety of non-ophthalmology rotations (e.g. internal medicine, emergency, neurology, etc). They also spend some time in ophthalmology clinics, both through regular call-back days and through a dedication ophthalmology block. In addition, residents attend the TORIC course during the Core stage.
  3. Foundations: Provides experience in all aspects of Ophthalmology with patients of all ages. Residents build on the broad base of knowledge and skills acquired in Foundations to add abilities related to the assessment and diagnosis of the breadth of ophthalmic presentations and management using all available treatment modalities. Residents will also perform the procedural skills required for practice in Ophthalmology. This stage spans the majority of residency training, encompassing approximately 3.5 years and includes exposure to areas such as retina, cornea, glaucoma, oculoplastics, pediatrics ophthalmology, neuro-ophthalmology, uveitis, oncology, low vision, and emergency clinics. There are also dedicated OR blocks where residents gain experience in cataract and other surgical procedures.
  4. Transition to practice: Consolidates skills required to manage a practice, including an outpatient clinic and ophthalmic procedures. This stage also serves to prepare residents for independent practice, with instruction and experience in areas of administrative and professional responsibility, including implementing a plan for lifelong learning and continuing professional development. In this stage, residents spend time in a variety of clinical settings relevant to their personal practice goals.

Research  
  

The program requires that residents actively participate in/lead research
projects throughout residency.  Residents have time set aside in the schedule
for this purpose during many rotations.  The department has a Resident
Research Director and is closely affiliated with many visual scientists and
clinical researchers with an interest in working with residents.  UBC also
allows for residents to take part in its Clinical Investigator Program which
allows individuals to suspend their residency program for a period of two
years while completing requirements for an advanced degree.
(http://www.cipubc.ca/).  Residents present at our annual research day and
funds are also available to present original research at academic meetings

* * *

# Training Sites

The main training sites for our residency are:**  
**

\- British Columbia Children's Hospital

\- St. Paul's Hospital

\- Vancouver General Hospital & Eye Care Centre

\- Mount St. Joseph's Hospital



During the Foundations stage, residents may be assigned to one of 3 hospital
sites:

\- St Paul's Hospital (Vancouver

\- Royal Columbian Hospital (New Westminster)

\- Royal Jubilee Hospital (Victoria)



There is also a mandatory ophthalmology rotation in the senior years in Fort
St John.

  

* * *

# Additional Information

In addition to a strong academic curriculum, high-quality clinical & surgical
experiences, our residency training program provides further support with
strong connections to the UBC Resident Wellness office (see
https://postgrad.med.ubc.ca/resident-wellness), with a developed program
mentorship program, as well as active resident & staff wellness advocates.  

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27120?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27120