#  University of Toronto - Orthopedic Surgery - Toronto

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 8

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Jeremy Hall  

Address Division of Orthopaedic Surgery  
Stewart Building  
149 College Street, Room 508A  
Toronto, Ontario M5G 1L5, Ontario, M5T 1P5  

Work  (416)946-7957

Fax  (416)978-3928

Websites of Interest [ Orthopaedic Surgery
](https://uoftorthopaedics.ca/education/residency/)  
[ PGME at U of T ](http://www.pgme.utoronto.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Jeremy Hall

Title: Program Director

Email: orthopaedics.admin@utoronto.ca

Phone: (416)946-7957

  

Name: Polina Mironova

Title: Program Administrator

Email: orthopaedics.admin@utoronto.ca

Phone: 416-946-7957

  

Name: Joanna Ascenzi

Title: Program Administrator

Email: orthopaedics.admin@utoronto.ca

Phone: 416-946-7957

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Temerty Faculty of Medicine’s Commitment to Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion**  
All postgraduate training programs at the Temerty Faculty of Medicine of the
University of Toronto are committed to create, support, and maintain a
learning and working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment,
intimidation, bullying, and disrespectful behaviour. We also strive to recruit
and retain learners, staff and faculty that reflect the diversity of Canadian
society, and assure that our programs and curricula prepare our graduates to
meet the needs of the diverse communities they will serve in their careers in
Canada and around the world. We are committed to working with all
underrepresented/minoritized populations (including 2SLGBTQIA+ people,
Indigenous Peoples of Canada, people of African ancestry and other racialized
groups, people with disabilities, the economically disadvantaged, those from
rural or remote communities, and more) in order to advance all forms of
equity, and in particular, health equity.

  
**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)  
** The University of Toronto is actively evaluating how and if the CaRMS Self-
Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) will be used in our application and
selection processes.  We believe it is critical to have a fair, transparent,
and robust process established prior to integrating the CSIQ into our
selection processes.  
  
_For the 2025 R1 Match,  if you assign the CSIQ to any University of Toronto
program, the program will NOT be able to view the content of your CSIQ
response. There are programs that provide applicants other opportunities to
self-identify as a member of an equity-seeking group. Please see individual
program descriptions for details._  

**Electives**  
While elective experiences in our discipline are highly encouraged, as this
helps demonstrate your interest and aptitude in the field, an elective at the
University of Toronto is not required. We recognize that not all candidates
have the opportunity to arrange and complete electives outside of their home
institution and would like to reassure you this will not negatively impact
your application to the University of Toronto.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

  * The University of Toronto’s orthopaedic residency training program underwent a regular Royal College accreditation site survey in 2020 and received full approval by the Accreditation Committee.
  * Resident in-patient load varies from service to service. Some services for example may have no in-patients (sports rotations). The heaviest rotations for in-patient responsibilities are typically the spine service and the trauma service.  Everyone attempts to make the load on any given resident reasonable so that service is balanced with education on the service.  These issues are best discussed with the residents during the informal part of our interview system.

We offer the ability to perform elective rotations within the University of
Toronto network (such as at St. Joseph's Hospital, William Osler Etobicoke
site, North York General Hospital, Southlake Hospital, and Trillium Hospital
in Mississauga), as well as outside the University network.

All hospitals have internet access and many hospitals have subscriptions to
electronic journals.  All residents are supplied with a University of Toronto
e-mail address, which is utilized as their primary contact.

In addition to the application requirements outlined in this program
description, applicants must ensure they meet all Provincial Eligibility
Criteria. To review the Ontario Eligibility Requirements, please visit:
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/>

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Legal Status**

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Orthopedic Surgery structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Custom Résumé / CV

Documentation of prior postgraduate training (if applicable)

Detailed Outline of medical practice experience (if applicable)

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

Your personal letter should outline your academic and career goals in
Orthopaedic Surgery. Highlight your leadership activities and any other
information relevant to your application.

Maximum word count: 1000 (no minimum)

_Important Note: Please address any gaps in training or remediation periods in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count._

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All applications are screened by a
subcommittee of the Residency Program Committee.  
  
The candidates that are considered to have a reasonable opportunity for
acceptance are contacted for interview.  
  
The interview process is by a panel of orthopedic surgeons with resident
representation. The candidate will meet with the Program Director and Chair as
well. The members of the panel are briefed on each applicant before the
interview and have access to the applicant's complete file. The 15-minute
interview is informal and allows the members of the panel to meet the
applicant and ask questions that are not covered by the formal application.
The applicant in turn may ask the panel about the program. At the end of the
day, the panel meets to short-list the candidates and rank them.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The University of Toronto Orthopaedic Surgery Program is looking for
candidates who are bright, have excellent interpersonal skills, good clinical
judgment, high ethical and professional standards and have a real interest in
community Orthopaedic Surgery. Given the large number of applicants expected,
we will be unable to offer an interview to all candidates.  Personal
interviews will be offered to a limited number of candidates based on the
selection criteria and are mandatory for admission to the program.

## Program goals

In July of 2009, the Division of Orthopaedic Surgery at the University of
Toronto implemented a pilot program for a subset of trainees in the residency
training program that used a competency-based framework.

This was done as a pilot project in anticipation of an emerging movement to
restructure postgraduate training across specialty education in Canada. The
pilot training program, referred to as the Competency-Based Curriculum (CBC),
responded to the changing demands in postgraduate medical education and a
growing understanding of the limits of a strictly time-based postgraduate
system.

The CBC was designed to not only meet the current accreditation and
educational requirements of the postgraduate medical education accreditation
body in Canada, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
(RCPSC), but also in anticipation of meeting the requirements for an
initiative in Canada to transition all training programs to competency-based
medical education (CBME).  Approval for this initiative was provided by the
RCPSC through a FIRE (Fundamental Innovations in Residency Education)
application, which continues until 2020.

Based on the experience with the pilot, the Division of Orthopaedic Surgery
fully transitioned to the CBC in the 2013-14 academic year. That year, the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada announced a Competence by
Design (CBD) initiative, which mandated that all postgraduate specialty
programs in Canada are to adopt a competency-based framework by the year 2022.
The Division is well underway and with our past CBC program experiences, has
allowed for ease in transition into the CBD initiative.

## Selection process goals

All applications are screened by a subcommittee of the Residency Program
Committee.

The candidates that are considered to have a reasonable opportunity for
acceptance are contacted for interview.

The interview process is by a panel of orthopedic surgeons with resident
representation. The candidate will meet with the Program Director. The members
of the panel are briefed on each applicant before the interview and have
access to the applicant's complete file. The 15-minute interview is informal
and allows the members of the panel to meet the applicant and ask questions
that are not covered by the formal application. The applicant in turn may ask
the panel about the program. At the end of the day, the panel meets to short-
list the candidates and rank them.

Skills and attributes of a successful applicant include:

\- a strong academic record which demonstrates special proficiency in those
subjects related to our specialty

\- candidates should have a proven interest in surgery.  This can be
demonstrated by electives in any of the surgical specialties, if possible.

\- If possible, references should be obtained from academic specialists in
orthopedic surgery.  Referees should be able to attest to interest and
proficiency in the specialty as well as comments on interpersonal skills,
motivation, work ethic, etc.

-candidates with an interest in research, both in basic science and clinical research are encouraged to apply

-special accomplishments either within medicine or outside of medicine are a strong endorsement.

All applications are screened by a subcommittee of the Residency Program
Committee.

The candidates that are considered to have a reasonable opportunity for
acceptance are contacted for interview, which will be held according to the
schedule set by the Orthopaedic Specialty Committee of the Royal College and
CaRMS.

## File review process

Review team composition : junior, senior residents, faculty, associate program
directors and program director

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  very important   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  a demonstration of clear intent in Orthopaedics as a career should reflect on elective choices   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  very important   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  very important   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  very important   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  very important   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  very important   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  very important   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  very important   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  very important   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  very important   
Collegiality |  very important   
Communication skills |  very important   
Health advocacy |  very important   
Interest in the discipline |  very important   
Interest in the program |  very important   
Leadership skills |  very important   
Professionalism |  very important   
Scholarly activities |  very important   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Program Highlights

  * As of July of 2013, all new PGY-1 residents have been trained using a Competency-Based Curriculum (CBC). This is based on the very successful pilot CBC that commenced in July of 2009.
  * As of July, 2020, all incoming residents will be trained along the “Competence By Design paradigm”, which all Orthopaedic surgery residency training programs will be implementing as per the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons mandate.
  * All PGY-1 residents spend the first month of training in the "Prep” and “Surgical Boot Camps", intensive courses that teach fundamental surgical skills including suturing, casting, bone drilling, basic Orthopaedic surgical approaches and AO principles
  * The Surgeon-Scientist Program (SSP) is available and encouraged for residents wishing to pursue a graduate degree (i.e., MSc, PhD) after the second year of training
  * There are currently a total of 56 residents at University of Toronto and 66 full time academic staff at 7 core teaching hospitals
  * Community electives are available at various hospitals around the Greater Toronto Area
  * Residents may undertake rural electives through the Rural Ontario Medical Program
  * The University of Toronto Program underwent a Royal College accreditation site survey in April of 2015 and received full approval with no major weaknesses noted
  * There is an excellent track record at the Royal College exams, with over 95% of our graduates passing the exam on the first attempt. 

  


* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The duration of the residency program is 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College standard.

Curriculum

The University of Toronto orthopaedic training program has as its major
objective not only clinical excellence but also academic excellence.  We
believe that a formal research experience is an essential component of
orthopaedic training, and furthers our mandate to train the academic leaders
of tomorrow.  

In July of 2009, our program commenced a pilot competency-based education
stream.  This novel curriculum follows several basic principles including:

- early and frequent surgical skills sessions to maximize technical performance at an early stage of training

- frequent examination and feedback: each module utilizes knowledge-based, technical, and communication assessments to provide ongoing feedback to the residents

- individualized, flexible progress through the program 

Based on the immense success of this program to date, we extended the current
pilot to include all new PGY-1 residents entering the program as of July,
2013.   As of July, 2020, all incoming residents will be trained and assessed
as per the “Competence By Design (CBD)” paradigm of the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons.  The CBD curriculum is differentiated from the CBC
program by having slightly different and more frequent EPAs completed in each
training module.

The training modules within the curriculum are:

  * Prep Camp/Surgical Boot Camp
  * Transition to Residency
  * Basic Fractures
  * Emergency Orthopaedics
  * Basic Arthroplasty
  * Basic Sports
  * Basic Pediatrics
  * Spine
  * Foot and Ankle
  * Hand and Upper Extremity
  * MSK Medicine
  * Oncology
  * Advanced Trauma
  * Advanced Arthroplasty
  * Advanced Sports
  * Advanced Pediatrics
  * Research (integrated throughout the clinical training years)

Residents spend the first month of PGY-1 in the Surgical Prep/Boot Camp, which
is an intensive surgical skills course held at the Surgical Skills Centre at
Mount Sinai Hospital.  Under the direction of faculty, fellows and senior
residents, residents practice skills such as prepping and draping, soft tissue
handling, instrument identification, suturing, bone drilling and sawing, basic
AO principles and casting.  Time is also spent practicing basic orthopaedic
surgical approaches.  This course allows residents to quickly achieve
competence in these technical skills, which enhances their early experience in
the operating room.

The remaining PGY-1 year is spent working through their early stage modules.
In subsequent years, residents will rotate through the other base hospitals to
achieve competence in the other subspecialties.  Because of the rapid
acquisition of technical competency, residents are able to undertake basic
procedures such as hip fracture fixation and primary hip and knee arthroplasty
in the first year of training.

Each resident is required to conduct a research project throughout their
residency training years and submit a manuscript of publishable quality by
November 30 of their last year in the program, and to present this project at
Research Day in the autumn of their last year.  The manuscript and
presentation must be a new project or continuation of their research day
project.

For residents who wish to pursue a graduate degree (Masters or Ph.D.), support
can be obtained from the Department of Surgery’s Surgeon-Scientist Program.
Residents take time out of their clinical training to complete their graduate
studies and return to it once their studies have been successfully completed.

All University of Toronto Residents entering PGY-1 will be required to
complete the web-based PGCorEd core competency modules as part of their
residency program certification.  These modules provide the foundation for the
intrinsic CanMEDS Roles for the Royal College of Physician and Surgeons of
Canada Specialty Programs.  Completion of these modules will be required
before the end of the PGY-2 year.  Failure to complete the modules will delay
processing of Final In-Training Evaluation Reports (FITERs) and may constitute
professional misconduct.

In addition to initiating the CBD curriculum in PGY-1, all residents must
complete the Surgical Foundations curriculum in their first academic year.
The Surgical Foundations curriculum is a separate Royal College specialty that
all surgical, ENT and obstetrics/gynaecology residents in Canada must
complete.  The program director for Surgical Foundations is Dr. Mark
Wheatcroft.  Once admitted into the orthopaedic surgery residency training
program, all in-coming residents will be contacted by the Surgical Foundations
office about what the objectives of training are, what learning resources will
be provided, and what assessments must be completed.

Research

As mentioned, residents may participate in the Surgeon-Scientist Program after
second year of training, which will lead to a graduate degree. Although not
required, this program is strongly suggested to those who wish to pursue an
academic career.

As mentioned, all residents are required to conduct a research project
throughout their residency training years and submit a manuscript of
publishable quality by November 30 of their PGY-5 year, and to present this
project at Research Day in the autumn of their final year of training.  The
manuscript and presentation must be a new project or continuation of their
research day project.



Seminars:

There is centralized teaching held the first and last Wednesdays of each month
from 14:30 – 17:30 hrs, which all residents must attend.  The teaching
consists of a 2.5 year curriculum.  

There is also a separate Surgical Foundations didactic and technical skills
curriculum, which takes place in the Surgical Skills Centre for all PGY-1
surgical residents.  Attendance at these sessions is mandatory and all
residents are excused from clinical duties for these sessions.  

In addition, each hospital runs its own academic program, which enriches the
central program.  The University of Toronto is privileged to have a very
frequent program of visiting professors and fellows, which also adds to the
academic program.  The curriculum has been redesigned to meet the CanMEDS
objectives.





* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

There are presently seven core orthopedic hospital divisions through which
trainees rotate.  There are also various community sites around the Greater
Toronto Area.  The hospital divisions comprise the University Division of
Orthopedic Surgery.  The Division’s/faculty strengths are listed below:

  * The Hospital for Sick Children: pediatric orthopedics, regional trauma center, sports medicine
  * Mount Sinai Hospital: lower extremity reconstructive surgery, oncology, sports medicine
  * St. Michael's Hospital: upper and lower extremity reconstructive surgery, trauma, spine, sports medicine, foot & ankle surgery
  * Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre: trauma, upper and lower extremity reconstructive surgery, spine, sports medicine
  * University Health Network - Toronto Western Hospital: upper and lower extremity reconstructive surgery, sports medicine, spine
  * Michael Garron Hospital (formerly Toronto East General Hospital): community orthopedics trauma and fracture care, lower extremity reconstructive surgery, sports medicine
  * Women's College Hospital: sports medicine, foot and ankle surgery

All hospitals are equipped with computers which allow internet access and many
hospitals have subscriptions to electronic journals.  All residents are
required to have a University of Toronto e-mail address, and will have
electronic access to all major Orthopaedic journals through the University of
Toronto library.  A resident-led review course takes place prior to the
Orthopaedic In-Training Exam (OITE) each fall.  There is a resident mentor
program for all new residents entering the program.  
  

For additional information regarding the University of Toronto’s fully
affiliated and community affiliated training sites, please visit:
<https://temertymedicine.utoronto.ca/vice-provost-relations-health-care-
institutions>







* * *

# Additional Information

  1. **Permanent Residents** : Successful applicants who hold Permanent Resident status in Canada will be required to disclose their Country of Citizenship to the postgraduate medical education office in order to comply with current reporting requirements of the Ontario Ministry of Colleges and Universities
  2. **Matched applicants** : CaRMS will provide their electronic data file to the matched university’s postgraduate education office. The postgraduate office will share the information as needed, but not limited to, the Ontario Physician Human Resource Data Centre, Canadian Post-MD Education Registry, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, the Professional Association of Residents of Ontario, teaching hospitals and other training sites, Touchstone Institute and the Ontario Ministry of Health.
  3. **Changes:**  The Ontario Faculties of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health reserve the right to make changes to the information published on the CaRMS website pertaining to Ontario postgraduate training without prior notice.
  4. **Failure to meet or provide proof**  of any of the stated requirements may result in applicant file being removed at any point during the match.



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26962?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26962