#  Dalhousie University - General Surgery - Halifax  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 5

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Christopher Kenyon  

Address General Surgery  
QEII Health Sciences Centre, Victoria General Site  
Rm 828, 1276 South Park St.  
Halifax , Nova Scotia, B3H 2Y9  

Work  (902) 473-2810

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Division of General Surgery
](http://generalsurgery.medicine.dal.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Lucy Helyer

Title: Program Director

Email: lhelyer@dal.ca

Phone: (902) 473-2810

  

Name: Chantelle Brown

Title: Program Administrator

Email: chantellem.brown@nshealth.ca

Phone: (902) 473-2810

  

* * *

# Important Information

To obtain a postgraduate training license after the conclusion of the match,
Canadian Medical Graduates (CMG's) must have registered and challenged the
Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Exam Part 1 (MCCQE 1) by July 1, 2025.
Those unsuccessful in the exam are subject to the decision of the regulatory
authority regarding licensure.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

The main strength of the program is the wealth of clinical and operative
experience. The first two years comprise the "core program" years and are
divided into four week and eight week rotations. The final three years focus
on mastery of general surgical knowledge and skills.

a. Interprovincial electives are available.

b. The ratio of residents to faculty is 1:1

c. Average patient load is 10 patients per resident.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

####  

You must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident _**at the time of
application**_.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three reference letters are required. References are preferably written by
staff.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

A personal letter is required. State reasons for applying to this program,
career goals, and any further supporting personal information such as extra
curricular areas of achievement. Maximum word count of 750.

Custom Résumé / CV

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 4, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held virtually on
February 4, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Upon invitation, the candidate will
be interviewed via Zoom (MMI format), and to meet residents and other house
staff informally.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The ideal candidate is mature, with good clinical and interpersonal skills.
Motivation, problem solving, and self assessment skills are also assessed.

## Program goals

  * To train general surgeons skilled in clinical care of surgical patients.
  * To equip them with a strong foundation of basic and complex surgical skills.
  * To introduce them to the plethora of surgical sub-specialties such as ICU, transplant, surgical oncology, colorectal, HPB, laparoscopic and endoscopic surgeries.
  * To support our trainees on their career choices whether community or urban sub specialty.
  * To encourage the development of an enquiring mind and critical appraisal of the literature.

## Selection process goals

  * To select mature, well-grounded medical students who would like to train in the Maritimes to become a general surgeon.
  * We look for self-motivated, responsible applicants who have rudimentary technical skills.
  * We identify applicants who have demonstrated the ability to interact with collegues and patients appropriately.
  * We identify applicants who have demonstrated the ability and enthusiasm to learn and are able to adapt to the varius demands of general surgery residency training.
  * Our program and university value the importance of equity, diversity and inclusion (EDI) in residency education, and achieving a diverse and inclusive group of residents is a goal in our selection process.

## File review process

Review team composition : Each file is reviewed for completeness by the
program administrator. Complete files are then reviewed an score by 2 members
of the division, they are then ranked using these criteria:  
Electives  
Letters of reference  
Academics  

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  
Final interviews are given out to the Top 50+ applicants, with tie breakers
being reviewed by both the program director and the associate program
director.

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Content, publications   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Clinical evaluations   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteer, interests, talents   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Organizations   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Grades   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Different programs   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Interactions with colleagues and patients   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest in research   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Providing patient care in team environment   
Collegiality |  Ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak and write in English   
Health advocacy |  Ability to identify and respond to a range of issues that influence the health and well-being of individual patients, communities, and populations.   
Interest in the discipline |  Ability to be a compassionate physician   
Interest in the program |  Interest in rural/community setting   
Leadership skills |  Type of leadership experience   
Professionalism |  Correspondence with staff and other residents   
Scholarly activities |  Do not evaluate   
Other interview component(s) |  A series of MMI are held with most members of the division participating as well as a short exit interview with either our PD or APD. All applicants are ranked based on their interviews.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

**General surgery at Dalhousie  **

Maritime based residency training General Surgeons for community or
subspecialty practice.  

Over the course of 5 years of training, the resident has a great exposure to
multi-organ transplant, minimally invasive/endoscopic surgery, surgical
oncology, colorectal surgery but also becomes proficient at acute
care/community surgery.  

Some residents join the Clinical Investigator Program (CIP) which is fully
funded and over a 2 year period to obtain a Masters Degree.

All staff involved with colonoscopy training have the CSI certification and
all resident proficiency at endoscopy is tracked.

Surgical Skills Center is open 24 hrs a day for resident practice. 6-8 wet
labs are held per year with cadaver/simulation involving the entire residency
program.

Community rotations are based in New Brunswick for PGY1-3. Electives and extra
opportunities are available in Cape Breton and the rest of the Province. New
Brunswick rotations are based in Saint John, Fredericton and Moncton in
furnished apartments.  

Nova Scotia is best known for its rich cultural heritage and its beautiful
beaches and coves. There is an endless supply of hiking, camping and kayaking
adventures for you to enjoy. Halifax is defined by its rich history, boasting
many heritage buildings and National Historic sites. There are plenty of
festivals, art galleries, fine dining and, pubs to be enjoyed.  



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The majority of rotations are in Halifax.  In the PGY1 year 2 months are spent
in Saint John, NB for general surgery.

In the PGY2 year 2 months are spent in Fredericton, NB for GI/Endoscopy.

In the PGY3 year 3 to 6 months are spent in Moncton, NB for general surgery.

**PGY 1**

**a.** General Surgery - 28 weeks (approximately 20 weeks will be spent in
Halifax, and 8 weeks in Saint John)

**b.** Medical Specialties - 8 weeks (Halifax)

**c.** Emergency Medicine - 4 weeks (Halifax)

**d.** Surgical Specialties - 8 weeks (Halifax)



**PGY 2**

**a.** GI Endoscopy - 8 weeks (Fredericton)

**b.** Vascular - 8 weeks (Halifax)

**c.** Trauma and Acute Care Surgery - 8 weeks (Halifax)

**d.** Transplant - 8 weeks (Halifax)

**e.** Thoracic - 8 weeks (Halifax)

**f.** Critical Care - 8 weeks (Halifax)



**PGY 3-4**

PGY3 and 4 offer 12 months of General Surgery rotations in Halifax, 3 to 6
months of General Surgery rotations in Moncton, and up to 6 months of
"electives" including Research, Community Surgery, Gynecology, Thoracic, etc.
See Royal College training guidelines for General Surgery:
http://rcpsc.medical.org



**PGY 5**

This is a Senior Residency Chief year in General Surgery in Halifax.

**Research**

Residents are expected to present at least two abstracts for Research Day
during their five year program.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Resources**

Community surgery experiences are available in Fredericton NB, Moncton NB,
Sydney NS, Charlottetown PEI, Dartmouth NS, and other sites.

**NOTE:** All residency programs are required to have 10% of their residency
training outside of Halifax Regional Municipality as stipulated in the most
recent Academic Funding Plan set out by the Department of Health and Wellness.
Please be aware that if matched to Halifax, as part of your training you may
be expected to complete rotations outside central zone but within the maritime
provinces.

* * *

# Additional Information

All incoming PGY1's will participate in a one month Surgical Foundations Boot
Camp in July.  Also, the ATLS Course will be offered during Boot Camp.

The ATLS Course is two full days and the subsidized fee is approximately
$300.00.    Incoming PGY1's will receive ATLS registration information in late
May or early June.



* * *

# FAQ

  * **Community or academic destination of the grads?**  This is hard to predict but ½ to ¾ of the graduates go on to Fellowships such as Transplant, MIS, Surgical Oncology, Thoracic, ICU-Trauma or Vascular Surgery. 



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26385?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26385