#  Queen’s University - Radiation Oncology - Kingston

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on February 19, 2025

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Catherine de Metz  

Address Radiation Oncology  
Cancer Centre of Southeastern Ontario  
25 King Street West  
Kingston, Ontario, K7L 5P9  

Work  613.548.3232 x6647

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Queens Radiation Oncology Website
](https://oncology.queensu.ca/academics/postgraduate-programs/radiation-
oncology)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Mallory Walker

Title: Program Administrator

Email: OncEdCoord@kingstonhsc.ca

Phone: 613-548-3232 ext 6647

  

* * *

# Important Information

Residents attending the Queen’s Radiation Oncology residency training program
have been immersed in Compentency Based Medical Education since July 2017.

**Electives**

Residents are encouraged to arrange elective on site to learn more about our
program. Given the limited opportunities for electives afforded to medical
students, they are not required for application. General elective time in the
discipline of Radiation Oncology is encouraged for all applicants.

COVID-19 vaccination requirements:

Please refer to the 'Restrictions' section of the [Ontario eligibility
criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/) for messaging regarding COVID-19 vaccination requirements.

**EDIIA Institutional Statement:**

The goal of resident selection is to identify trainees likely to succeed both
in training and, once out in practice, in meeting the health care needs of
patients and Canadian society.  We know that having a physician workforce that
reflects the demographics of the patients that they serve improves health care
outcomes.  There are many populations within Canada under-represented in
medicine (UIM) with a paucity of health care practitioners who are Black,
Indigenous, Persons of Colour, 2SLGBTQ+, from lower socioeconomic backgrounds
and/or with disabilities, and other under-represented in medicine (UIM)
groups. Diversity within training programs has also been shown to improve
training environments.  Queen’s University PGME is strongly committed to
diversity and inclusion within its community for these reasons as well as
being part of the solution to address historic and contemporary inequities.

**Equity and diversity**

We welcome diversity among our trainees and seek to foster an environment that
is welcoming to all, regardless of gender identity, race, religion, or sexual
orientation.

We are committed to advancing equitable and inclusive practices.  Please refer
to the [PGME website](https://meds.queensu.ca/academics/postgraduate/faculty-
staff/applicant-selection) for additional information / resources including
[QHS EDIIA Initiatives](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi) and [EDIIA
statements](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi/accessibility-
statements) (Indigenous Land Acknowledgement, Anti-Discrimination Statement,
Inclusion Statement, and Statement on Social Accountability)

**Gaps in Training, Remediation, or Professionalism issues**

Please address any gaps in training, remediation, or professionalism issues in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count.

* * *

# Return of Service

If you have a ROS agreement in another province please ensure you aware of the
commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Please note that due to the volume of applications our program receives we are
not able to provide individual feedback to applicants who are not successful
in the match.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Applicants are advised to only provide the documents requested by the program.
No other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. If possible, one or more letters from
a faculty member in Radiation Oncology is helpful, but not required.

Additional documents

Required

Custom Résumé / CV

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

Please provide a personal statement providing insight into your character and
your desire and interest to secure a residency position in Radiation Oncology
at Queen's University. Background about your knowledge and interest in the
specialty and what makes you a strong candidate will be helpful in reviewing
your application.

Please address any gaps in training, remediation, or professionalism issues in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

USED FOR MEMORY AID ONLY

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Conditionally required

Undergraduate Transcript (Bachelor's Degree)

Undergraduate Transcript

Medical School Diploma

Documents that are not in English must be accompanied by a notarized
translation. Students applying in the last year of medical school will need to
submit their most recent marks/transcripts, and will need to provide proof of
their MD to CPSO prior to the start of residency training.

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

All applications will be reviewed by members of the selection committee using
a standardized, objective, predefined process. All applicants will be assessed
by multiple members of the selection committee in a blinded fashion.
Interviewers will not have access to file review to maintain a fair and
objective process. The program director will review and meet with all
candidates offered an interview, but will not score applicants.

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates:

## Interviews will be held Monday, January 27 via Zoom

The interview will be conducted in a Multiple Mini Interview Format and the
date has been coordinated with other Radiation Oncology training programs in
Canada. One interview station will consist of meeting the Program Director,
while the next stations will consist of a combincation of Radiation Oncology
attending physicians, Medical Physicist and/or a senior resident from our
program.

Each station group will ask structured interview questions covering
communication, collaboration and professionalism. Residents will be prompted
at the begining of each station. Each station will take no longer than 10-12
minutes with an opportunity for questions/additional comments at end of each
station (time permitting).

If your application is selected for an interview, the Department of Oncology's
Education Program Coordinator will contact you by email with the specific
information regarding your interview, including date and time as well as a
schedule for each station.

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process:

### Candidates who do not interview are not ranked. If you are unable to
attend the interview due to extenuating circumstances, please contact the
Educational Program Coordinator to try and schedule an alternate interview
time and date. Every attempt will be made to accomodate applicants, but will
be reviewed on a case by case basis.

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

The purpose of the Radiation Oncology Program is to develop the highest
standard of independent practitioners within our field with a well-rounded
training experience focused on clinical excellence, research, leadership, and
continuous professional development. We aim to train residents to become
proficient and compassionate radiation oncologists capable of delivering high-
quality, patient-centered care for a diverse patient population with cancer.
We encourage strong collaboration with other oncology disciplines, including
medical and surgical oncology, radiology, pathology, and palliative care, to
promote comprehensive cancer care.

We welcome diversity among our trainees, and seek to foster an environment
that is welcoming to all, regardless of gender identity, race,
religion/spirituality, ability, or sexual orientation.

During training, residents will demonstrate a curiosity about medicine,
education and research.  We will provide a stimulating academic environment
that promotes critical thinking, evidence-based practice, and lifelong
learning in radiation oncology. Individuals must be coachable and receptive to
feedback, recognize their personal and professional limits and not be afraid
to ask for help.

Our program aims to cultivate strong communication skills, leadership, and
teamwork abilities essential for delivering effective care and advancing as
leaders in the oncology community. They will be informed advocates for their
patients and community and will aspire to be leaders in Health Care.

## Selection process goals

Applicants with the following attributes will be considered favorably:

  * An excellent academic record
  * Knowledge of and prior interest in radiation oncology
  * Strong communication and interpersonal skills
  * Demonstrated interest in scholarly activity including research and education
  * A personal letter is mandatory, highlighting interest in Radiation Oncology at Queen's University
  * Reference letters should demonstrate the following:  

    * Interest in Radiation Oncology and/or related disciplines
    * Strength in clinical skills, knowledge and problem-solving abilities
    * Communication and ability to work in a multi-disciplinary team environment
    * Dedication, strong work ethic, personal character and integrity

## File review process

Review team composition : The File Review Team consists of the Program
Director, 2 staff physicians and 2 residents

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  yes; provides an overall picture of the applicant   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  yes; recognizing electives at our institution may not have been possible given COVID-19 restrictions   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  yes; speaks to the applicant's personality and career objectives   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  yes; speaks to the applicant's interests outside of medicine   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  yes; speaks to the applicant's strengths as a team member   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  yes; speaks to the applicant's general academic proficiency   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  yes; speaks to the applicant's personality and career objectives   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  yes; speaks to the applicant's skills in the CanMEDSs roles   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  yes; speaks to the applicant's area of research interests   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  yes; speaks to the applicant's academic strength   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  how well the applicant manages in a multi-disciplinary environment?   
Collegiality |  how well the applicant interacts with their peers?   
Communication skills |  how well the applicant can articulate and provide important and/or sensitive information?   
Health advocacy |  is the applicant aware of important societal health issues?   
Interest in the discipline |  how much time has been invested in the consideration of a career in Radiation Oncology?   
Interest in the program |  did the applicant research Queen's University or the City of Kingston?   
Leadership skills |  does the applicant have any experience in a leadership role?   
Professionalism |  how does the applicant conduct themselves?   
Scholarly activities |  we do not evaluate this interview component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

### 1\. **Strong Academic Foundation and Competency-Based Curriculum**

  * The program is structured around the Competence by Design (CBD) model, ensuring that residents receive targeted, stage-specific training and assessments that align with the Royal College standards.
  * Comprehensive academic half-days with didactic sessions and case-based learning ensure a well-rounded education in both the science and practice of radiation oncology.

### 2\. **Hands-On Experience with Cutting-Edge Technology**

  * Residents gain extensive experience with advanced radiation therapy techniques, including stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT), stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS), intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT), and brachytherapy.
  * Access to state-of-the-art facilities, including modern linear accelerators, high-precision imaging modalities, and a brachytherapy suite, supports both clinical and research excellence.

### 3\. **Collaborative and Supportive Learning Environment**

  * The program fosters a close-knit and collegial atmosphere where residents work closely with approachable faculty who are dedicated to teaching and mentorship.
  * Residents benefit from a highly collaborative, team-based approach to oncology care, participating in multidisciplinary tumor boards, joint rounds, and integrated care pathways.

### 4\. **Research Excellence with Tailored Support**

  * A dedicated Research Committee provides structured guidance and mentorship, ensuring that residents receive the support needed to complete high-impact research projects.
  * Residents have opportunities to engage in diverse research domains, from clinical trials and translational research to health systems research and education studies, with access to funding and resources.
  * Strong research program with ties to the[ Queen's Cancer Research Institute](https://qcri.queensu.ca/ "QCRI") (QCRI) which houses: [Canadian Cancer Trials Group](https://www.ctg.queensu.ca/ "CCTG") (CCTG), [Cancer Biology and Genetics](https://qcri.queensu.ca/cancer-biology-genetics-cbg "CBG") (CBG) and [Cancer Care and Epidemiology](https://qcri.queensu.ca/cancer-care-epidemiology "CCE") (CCE)

### 5\. **Leadership and Advocacy Training**

  * The program integrates leadership development into its curriculum, with opportunities for residents to take on leadership roles, participate in quality improvement initiatives, and engage in advocacy efforts at local and national levels.
  * Strong emphasis on health advocacy, equity, and social accountability, encouraging residents to address health disparities and contribute to initiatives that improve access to care for vulnerable populations.

### 6\. **Comprehensive Exam Preparation and Success**

  * The program is structured to thoroughly prepare residents for their Royal College exams through in-training assessments, mock exams, and a focused curriculum that aligns with exam objectives.
  * Graduates consistently achieve high success rates on examinations and move on to prestigious fellowships and positions in academic and community practice.

### 7\. **Multidisciplinary Exposure and Holistic Care**

  * Regular involvement in multidisciplinary rounds and tumor boards provides residents with a broad perspective on cancer care, allowing them to collaborate with experts across medical, surgical, and palliative care disciplines.
  * This multidisciplinary exposure ensures that residents are well-versed in holistic patient management and can effectively coordinate complex care plans.

### 8\. **Resident Wellness and Resilience Focus**

  * The program prioritizes resident well-being with access to wellness initiatives, peer support, and resources that help maintain work-life balance and prevent burnout.
  * Flexible training schedules, supportive faculty, and a positive learning environment contribute to resident satisfaction and overall well-being.

### 9\. **Tailored Career Development and Mentorship**

  * Personalized mentorship is offered to residents from early in their training, guiding them in career planning, fellowship applications, and academic and leadership opportunities.
  * The program’s graduates have gone on to pursue diverse career paths, including academic positions, community practice, and leadership roles within national organizations.

### 10\. **Engagement in Community and Global Health Initiatives**

  * Residents have opportunities to participate in outreach and advocacy programs, community education, and global health initiatives that align with their interests in improving cancer care beyond the local context.



We are very proud of our residents and their accomplishments!  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Program Overview:**

The Queen’s University Radiation Oncology residency program offers a dynamic
and comprehensive training experience designed to prepare residents for a
successful career in academic or community-based oncology practice. Our
program is committed to delivering high-quality, patient-centered education
through a balanced curriculum that integrates clinical excellence, research,
leadership, and professional development.

Our program provides an enriching academic environment with ample
opportunities for research, mentorship, and professional growth. Residents
have access to state-of-the-art facilities, including advanced imaging and
radiation therapy technologies, and are supported by a multidisciplinary team
of experts. Regular academic half-days, simulation sessions, and
interdisciplinary rounds complement hands-on clinical learning.

Community experience and Pediatric Oncology will be provided outside of our
training facility



**OVERALL GOALS OF THE PROGRAM**  


  * **Develop Clinical Competence in Radiation Oncology** : Train residents to deliver comprehensive and patient-centered care using evidence-based practices across the full spectrum of radiation oncology, including advanced techniques such as IMRT, brachytherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS), and stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT).

  * **Foster Critical Thinking and Problem-Solving Skills** : Equip residents with the ability to critically assess clinical scenarios, apply diagnostic reasoning, and make informed decisions that enhance patient outcomes.

  * **Cultivate Research and Scholarly Excellence** : Promote active engagement in clinical and translational research, with the goal of advancing the field of radiation oncology and contributing to peer-reviewed publications and scientific presentations.

  * **Advance Professionalism and Ethical Practice** : Instill a commitment to professionalism, ethical decision-making, and respect for diverse patient populations and interdisciplinary teams.

  * **Promote Leadership and Advocacy Skills** : Develop residents into leaders who can effectively advocate for their patients, contribute to public health initiatives, and lead quality improvement efforts within their practices and communities.

  * **Ensure Competency in Technological Advancements** : Provide hands-on experience with state-of-the-art radiation therapy equipment and software, ensuring residents are proficient with the latest technological innovations and can integrate them into clinical practice.

  * **Encourage Multidisciplinary Collaboration** : Train residents to work collaboratively within multidisciplinary oncology teams, participating actively in tumor boards and shared decision-making to optimize holistic cancer care.

  * **Support Health Advocacy and Social Accountability** : Promote resident engagement in addressing health disparities, improving access to cancer care, and advocating for public policy changes that enhance the delivery of radiation oncology services.

  * **Prepare for Lifelong Learning and Certification** : Equip residents with the skills, knowledge, and habits necessary to excel in their certification exams and to pursue continuous professional development throughout their careers.

  * **Promote Well-Being and Resilience** : Encourage the development of personal resilience and well-being strategies that support a sustainable and rewarding career in radiation oncology.





To prepare candidates for examination in Radiation Oncology by the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada the program will provide:

  * didactic teaching in basic sciences: Physics, Radiobiology, Tumor Biology, Epidemiology and Statistics;
  * clinical teaching in assessment, clinical decision making, radiotherapy treatment planning and management and follow-up of both ambulatory and hospitalized patients;
  * meaningful educational objectives with formative feedback based on stage of training and in accordance with the EPAs developed by the Royal College;
  * the opportunity to participate in clinical research, audit and multi-disciplinary case conferences (tumour boards)
  * in collaboration with Queen's University and the Kingston Health Sciences Centre, workshops and seminars directed at enhancing skills in communication, teaching and management.

**See the  [Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons](https://www.royalcollege.ca/en/standards-and-
accreditation/information-by-discipline?specialty=royal-
college%3Aibd%2Fspecialty%2Fradiation-oncology&subspecialty=&special-
program=&afc-diploma=) \- Information by Discipline (Radiation Oncology) and
associated documents**

**Program Structure:**

Our residency program follows the Competence By Design (CBD) framework,
aligning with the principles of competency-based medical education (CBME)
introduced by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. The
training is structured into four distinct stages:

  1. **Transition to Discipline (TTD):** Residents are introduced to the fundamentals of radiation oncology, focusing on key principles of patient assessment, basic radiation techniques, and safe clinical practices. This stage emphasizes the transition from general medical training to specialty-specific learning. This interactive program allows new residents to transition from medical student to resident with confidence. Students will transition from didactic teaching sessions meant to familiarize the resident with the training program, staff and site as well as provide training in fundamental Radiation Oncology principles and background on resident responsibilities. The trainees will transition to a clinical setting where they will work one-on-one with a variety of supervisors and have exposure to common treatment sites.

  2. **Foundations of Discipline (FOD):** Residents build on their foundational knowledge, gaining competency in core clinical skills and beginning to manage more complex cases under supervision. The focus is on developing a broad understanding of the radiation oncology field and related disciplines. During this stage, residents will rotate through medical and surgical specialties related to the practice of Radiation Oncology including: Respirology, Pathology, Medical Oncology, Palliative Care, Hematology/Oncology, Gynecological Oncology. 

  3. **Core of Discipline (COD):** During this stage, residents refine their clinical judgment and technical expertise while managing a diverse range of cancer cases with increasing autonomy. Rotations include specialized areas like brachytherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS), and multidisciplinary tumor boards, allowing residents to deepen their expertise across subspecialties.  Upon completion of Core, residents will have the necessary knowledge, skills and clinical experience to attend the Royal College Examination.

  4. **Transition to Practice (TTP):** As residents near the end of their training, they assume near-independent responsibility in patient care, preparing for the demands of unsupervised practice. This stage emphasizes leadership, practice management, and readiness for certification exams/independent practice. During this stage, residents will attend individual consultation/follow-up clinics and be involved with all aspects of patient care management including: triage, initial consultation and staging, treatment plan development, collaboration with related disciplines for the multidisciplinary management of cancer, overseeing patient treatment and management of toxicities as well as survivorship/surveillance management post-treatment.



**Academic Program Overview**

The academic curriculum at Queen’s University Radiation Oncology Training
Program is designed to provide residents with a comprehensive education that
balances clinical expertise, research, and professional development. Our
structured academic program incorporates formal teaching sessions,
interdisciplinary learning, and hands-on skills development, all aligned with
the Competence by Design (CBD) framework.

**Academic Half-Days:**

Dedicated academic half-days are held weekly, providing a structured forum for
didactic lectures, and case-based learning. Topics cover a broad range of
subjects including radiation physics, radiobiology, treatment planning,
contouring, and site-specific oncology. Sessions are led by faculty experts,
guest lecturers, and residents, with a focus on integrating the latest
evidence-based practices.

**Competency-Based Medical Education (CBME):**

The curriculum is delivered through the CBME model, which emphasizes mastery
of key competencies across different stages of training. Educational
activities are tailored to each stage, from foundational knowledge in early
training to advanced clinical reasoning and leadership in the later stages.
Residents receive regular assessments through Entrustable Professional
Activities (EPAs) and formative feedback to guide their learning and
professional growth.

**Equity, Diversity and Inclusiveness Learning:**

The Queen’s University Radiation Oncology program takes methods to ensure
equitability and diversity. Diversity within training programs is shown to
improve training environments.  Queen’s University PGME and Radiation Oncology
is strongly committed to diversity and inclusion within its community for
these reasons as well as being part of the solution to address historic and
contemporary inequities.  

**Multidisciplinary Learning:**

Residents are active participants in multidisciplinary tumor boards and case
discussions, fostering collaboration with medical oncologists, surgeons,
pathologists, and other healthcare professionals. These sessions provide
valuable insights into the decision-making process for complex cancer cases
and the importance of a team-based approach to patient care.

**Simulation and Hands-On Training:**

Simulation-based learning is a key component of our academic program.
Residents engage in contouring exercises, treatment planning scenarios, and
mock treatment planning/clinical exams to build technical skills and
confidence in clinical practice.

**Research and Scholarly Activity:**

Our program places a strong emphasis on research and scholarly activity.
Residents are supported in pursuing clinical, translational, and educational
research projects, with access to mentors, resources, and funding
opportunities. The academic program includes Grand Rounds, Journal Clubs, and
opportunities to present findings at local, national, and international
conferences.

**Leadership and Professional Development:**

Leadership training is integrated into the academic curriculum, with sessions
focused on communication skills, ethics, advocacy, and healthcare systems
management. Residents are encouraged to take on leadership roles within the
department, engage in quality improvement initiatives, and participate in
committees at the institutional and national levels.

**Exam Preparation:**

The academic program is aligned with Royal College objectives to ensure
residents are well-prepared for their certification exams. Regular mock oral
exams, in-training assessments, and review courses are part of the program,
providing residents with the tools they need to succeed in their exams and
beyond.

**Mentorship and Support:**

Residents receive personalized mentorship from faculty members who provide
guidance on career planning, research opportunities, and professional
development. Regular progress reviews and a supportive learning environment
ensure residents achieve their academic and career goals



**Research Objectives:**

Research is a core component of the Queen’s University Radiation Oncology
Training Program, with the goal of cultivating residents’ ability to
critically evaluate evidence, contribute to the advancement of radiation
oncology, and develop skills in clinical and translational research. Our
research objectives are designed to ensure that residents are well-equipped to
conduct high-quality studies that can impact patient care and oncology
practice.

**Research Objectives:**

  1. **Develop Research Competence and Skills** : Equip residents with the foundational skills necessary to design, conduct, and analyze research studies, including clinical trials, retrospective reviews, quality improvement initiatives, and translational research.

  2. **Foster a Culture of Scientific Inquiry** : Encourage residents to engage in continuous inquiry, promoting innovation and exploration of new ideas that can drive progress in cancer care and treatment approaches.

  3. **Integrate Research with Clinical Practice** : Support residents in developing research projects that are directly relevant to clinical practice, focusing on improving patient outcomes, optimizing treatment techniques, and enhancing radiation therapy protocols.

  4. **Promote Scholarly Dissemination** : Enable residents to present their research at national and international conferences, and to publish their work in peer-reviewed journals, contributing to the broader oncology community.

  5. **Cultivate Mentorship and Collaboration** : Facilitate strong mentorship and collaboration between residents and faculty researchers, fostering a supportive environment for project development, data analysis, and manuscript preparation.

**Research Committee and Support Structure:**

Our program includes a dedicated **Research Committee** composed of faculty
members with diverse research expertise in clinical trials, translational
science, and health services research. The committee plays a central role in
guiding residents’ research activities and includes the following functions:

  1. **Project Proposal Review and Approval** : Residents are required to submit their research proposals to the committee early in their training. The committee evaluates project feasibility, scientific merit, and relevance to the field of radiation oncology, providing constructive feedback to help refine research questions and methodologies.

  2. **Mentorship and Resource Allocation** : The Research Committee connects residents with faculty mentors whose expertise aligns with their project interests. The committee also helps residents access institutional resources such as biostatistical support, research ethics board guidance, and funding opportunities.

  3. **Progress Monitoring and Feedback** : The committee holds regular meetings with residents to assess the progress of ongoing projects, provide guidance on overcoming challenges, and ensure timely completion of research milestones. This includes evaluating data collection, analysis, and manuscript preparation phases.

  4. **Scholarly Output and Recognition** : The Research Committee encourages and facilitates opportunities for residents to present their findings at departmental rounds, research days, and conferences, and to pursue publication in high-impact journals.

  5. **Research Skill Development** : The academic curriculum includes dedicated research seminars and workshops focusing on study design, biostatistics, critical appraisal, grant writing, and scientific communication, ensuring that residents gain comprehensive research training.

**Outcome Expectations:**

By the completion of their residency, each resident is expected to have
conducted and completed at least one significant research project, with the
goal of presenting at a national or international meeting and publishing in a
peer-reviewed journal. The program’s structure is designed to produce
graduates who are confident and capable of integrating research into their
clinical practice and who can contribute meaningfully to the advancement of
radiation oncology.

* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

  * Cancer Centre of Southeastern Ontario at Kingston Health Sciences Centre
  * Kingston Health Sciences Centre (Kingston General Hospital and Hotel Dieu Hospital)
  * University of Toronto

* * *

# Additional Information

## **RADIATION ONCOLOGY RESIDENCY PROGRAM OPEN HOUSE**



**Please join us for the Radiation Oncology at Queen's University Virtual Open
house on**

**November 7, 2024, at 7:30 PM via Zoom.  **

**Please use the link below to sign up. The meeting information will be
emailed to you before the open house.  **

**https://forms.office.com/r/6ij1kUR0p6  **

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27162?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27162