#  University of British Columbia - Family Medicine - Quw'utsun  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on November 08, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 4

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Joshua Greggain  

Address Faculty of Medicine – Department of Family Practice  
300-5950 University Boulevard  
Vancouver, British Columbia, V6T 1Z3  

Websites of Interest [ UBC CaRMS Website ](http://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Jana Ogdenova

Title: Program Co-manager

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Kelly Jacobs

Title: Program Co-manager

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Cindy Choi

Title: Education Coordinator

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Selena Martin

Title: Site Coordinator

Email: selenam@uvic.ca

  

Name: Dr. Kirsten Yip

Title: Co-Site Director

Email: kirsten.yip@ubc.ca

  

Name: Dr. Tom Rimmer

Title: Co-Site Director

Email: tom.rimmer@ubc.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Prospective residents should refer to the [Family Medicine Residency
Selection](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/) website for ongoing updates,
deadlines and detailed information.  
  

FMProC: Important timelines

For the 2025 residency selection cycle ALL FM residency programs in Canada
require applicants to sit FMProC for those applying in both rounds of CaRMS.



FMProC test window for CaRMS first Iteration is from **October 28 (8AM ET) to
November 11, 2024 (10AM ET).  **

Registration opens from **September 11 (12 noon ET) and closes on November 07,
2024 (10AM ET).  **

** **

To register and find out more about the test please go to**
****[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/)**. All test related updates will
be posted on the website.

Requests to register or to sit the test outside of the posted deadlines will
not be considered.



**Upon completion of FMProC,  you must upload** your FMProC result letter to
CaRMS for your application to be considered complete.

** **

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Resident selection for the UBC Family Medicine program is a collaborative
process between all of our sites. Logistics and administration of resident
selection is managed by our central program office in Vancouver, located at
the UBC Point Grey Campus.

As the UBC Family Medicine Program is distributed into 23 unique sites and
locations, candidates should apply to each site they are interested in.  
Applicants must submit same application package to all sites to which they
apply.  

Regardless of the number of sites applicants apply to and rank, **only one
interview will be conducted**.

A variety of virtual information sessions will be held to provide prospective
residents with the opportunity to learn more about the programs and discuss
the training experience with faculty and current residents. Please visit
[Program Events](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/interviews-and-program-
events/) for upcoming events.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**CMG / USMG**

**If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada (including McGill)
or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.**

Candidates who attended medical school in Quebec or the University of Ottawa
where the language of instruction or the primary language of patient care was
not English, must fulfill the English Language Proficiency requirements of the
College of Physicians of Surgeons of BC as identified below.   This
requirement is the same for IMGs and is required by the start of the Ranking
Period.



Examinations

Required

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required.

  * Regardless of reference source, reference letters should speak to an interest in Family Medicine and aptitude for the discipline.
  * Using anecdotal narrative if possible, letters should provide evidence of attributes and abilities well suited for a career in Family Medicine.
  * These attributes and abilities are also evaluated in our interview process (see interview criteria and components).

Note: Traditional narrative letters will **NOT**** ** be accepted.  
Please note that should your reference submit a traditional letter it will not
be reviewed and your application may be deemed incomplete.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

_Provide a biographical letter (max. 750 words) that includes answers to the
following questions:_

_1.__    What life skills or lived experience do you have that demonstrate
your suitability for family medicine residency training?_

_2.     Why would a career in Family Medicine be a good fit for you?_

_3._    Why UBC? Why British Columbia? _Please elaborate with specific
examples of any connections you might have with the province of B.C., like
community connections, education, work experience, etc. _



_ _      _**Note: The same letter must be submitted with each site
application.**_

Optional - will be reviewed

Family Medicine rural addendum/questionnaire

**Rural Questionnaire:**

  * Candidates are **strongly encouraged** to include this supporting document when they apply to a rural site.
  * Completion of the rural questionnaire will identify the applicant as someone with a special interest in rural training and practice.
  * If you apply to both urban _and  _rural sites, completion of the rural questionnaire will not prevent applicants from being considered for an urban placement.
  * A score attributed to the questionnaire will be provided to Site directors at rural sites for consideration _after  _the interview period. This will be a stand-alone metric and does not contribute to the total file review score.
  * The following sites are considered rural and will use the rural questionnaire score when generating their site rank list: 
    * Kelowna Rural
    * Kootenay Boundary
    * Northern Rural
    * Northwest - Terrace
    * Northeast - Fort St. John
    * Okanagan South
    * Prince George
    * Strathcona
    * Rural Immersion
    * Quw'utsun
  * _Note:  _Training at the Indigenous sites include about 50% rural training, but will _not_  use the rural questionnaire in their ranking



**Rural Questionnaire:**

_(Answer the following questions. Please write your responses under each
question; 250 words max per question)_

  1. **_Describe your personal rural background and/or rural involvement and experience, both prior to and during medical school._**
  2. **_What has led you to apply for a residency in rural Family Medicine and why would you value a rural residency position?_**
  3. **_Describe the type of future rural practice that would fit you best._**



**Note :** You must upload your responses under 'Family Medicine Rural
addendum/questionnaire'. Any responses submitted to 'Program questionnaire' or
any other sections not relevant to Rural addendum/questionnaire will not be
considered.



* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 18, 2025
  * January 19, 2025
  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025
  * January 25, 2025
  * January 26, 2025
  * January 27, 2025
  * January 28, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: 2025 R-1 match interviews will continue to
be in a virtual format.  
  
The national interview period is January 18- February 09, 2025.  
**UBC interviews** will take place between the dates of **January 18-28, 2025.
**  
  
Please note that candidates will be interviewed once, regardless of number of
training sites you apply to.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All interviews will be conducted in a
live, synchronous MMI format. The UBC Family Medicine (FM) program will
contact the selected applicants by email to provide program-specific interview
details and interview links.  
  
If you wish to add a new program/site to your rank list after your interview,
you must update your CaRMS application by our **Program deadline, January 29,
2025**. This date will be posted here as soon as it is determined.  
  
Any additional sites added to your application after this date will not be
considered for ranking.  
  
  
**Important** : you must also link your documents to any newly ranked site.  
  
Regardless of the number of sites to which you apply, one final score will be
generated after the interview.  
If you are matched, the program will be unable to facilitate transfer from one
site to another.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Applicants must submit an application to each site they are interested in and
should assign the same set of documents to each site. Selection is based on
file review and one set of MMI interviews. Each file is reviewed and given a
score. This file review score determines whether a candidate is offered an
interview. The file review score is then combined with the interview score and
FMPROC score to create a total score for each applicant. **The file review
score will contribute to 20%, interview score will contribute to 75%, and
FMProC  will contribute to 5% of the overall global score**. A recommended
rank list based on the total score is submitted to each site for
consideration. The sites retain discretion to adjust the recommended rank list
based on local site selection committee input.

## Program goals

  1. To graduate residents who have developed the competencies needed to begin independent family practice in diverse community settings
  2. To deliver an effective academic, clinical and scholarly educational program
  3. To graduate residents who are inspired, resilient, and balanced
  4. To graduate residents who demonstrate evidence-based and reflective practice
  5. To provide working and learning environments that ensure residents, faculty and staff feel respected and supported

## Selection process goals

  1. Identify individuals with an aptitude for family medicine who are most likely to thrive in our diverse residency sites and in the unique context of British Columbia communities
  2. Identify individuals with a demonstrated solid foundation of clinical skills and clinical approach which equips them for Postgraduate Education training.
  3. Identify individuals who have consistent professional behavior; who interact appropriately with patients, colleagues and staff.
  4. Identify mature, motivated individuals with a broad range of life experience which they can draw upon to adapt to the demands of residency training.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is composed of faculty leadership
from across our distributed program, the program director and senior
administration.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 601 +  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership skills are considered in the context of the personal letters and reference letters   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Taken into consideration only if professionalism issues are identified   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstrated suitability to Family Medicine and training in BC through experience and life skills   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Demonstrated suitability through attributes, abilities and interest in the discipline   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
Other file component(s) |  Note: The MSPR and transcripts are required supporting documents by CaRMS but are not scored as part of the UBC Family Practice file review process.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We do not evaluate this component

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Yes: with patients and colleagues   
Collegiality |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Communication skills |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Health advocacy |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Interest in the discipline |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Interest in the program |  Yes: UBC in general, and in specific programs (rural, under-served populations, inner-city context etc.)   
Leadership skills |  Yes: assessment of leadership of self and others   
Professionalism |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Other interview component(s) |  Ability to handle Ambiguity/Uncertainty  
Advocacy/Compassion  
Resilience  
Patient centeredness  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  Indigenous Applicants  
The Quw'utsun Family Practice Residency Program acknowledges the deeply
important connection that Indigenous Peoples have to their home territories
and communities. We recognize and aspire to uphold Indigenous Peoples’
inherent right to live and work on their traditional lands, as supported by
section 35 of the Constitution Act, section 25 of the Charter of Rights and
Freedoms and articles 25 and 26 of the United Nations Declaration on the
Rights of Indigenous Peoples. As such, our site undergoes a rank adjustment
process that prioritizes self-identified Indigenous applicants who come from a
Nation within our site’s region. The rank adjustment process is contingent on
the submission of an additional letter by the applicant, which is reviewed
against the site-specific criteria outlined within the CaRMS description by
local Knowledge Keepers and an advisory committee. Applicants who self-
identify as Indigenous and have ties to any of the local First Nations
community are invited to submit a letter introducing themselves and detailing
their connection to the community. The letter can be emailed to the site
coordinator Selena Martin selenam@uvic.ca.  
  
Please note, all applicants who do not identify as Indigenous, or who do not
submit a letter, will be ranked per the usual UBC ranking protocol.  
  
Below is the scoring system used in the rank adjustment of applicants. The UBC
central program sends the site the list of students who selected our site and
completed the application process. Applicants on this list who have submitted
a letter, and as such have indicated their interest in being rank adjusted per
the Indigenous specific criteria below, will have their files reviewed by the
selection committee and be ranked with scores ranging from 0-2. The selection
committee may elect not to rank candidates if they feel that they are not
suited to the site based on red flags (generally related to culturally unsafe
language or behaviour).  
  
0 points:  
Does not self-identify as an Indigenous person or uses language that is
culturally unsafe to describe their lived Indigenous experiences (i.e.
perpetuating stereotypes or prejudices)  
  
1 point:  
Self-identifies as Indigenous from one or more of the local First Nation
communities AND  
\- Does not demonstrate strong connection to one or more of the local First
Nation communities  
OR  
\- Self-identifies as Indigenous (First Nation from any Nation, Métis or
Inuit) AND demonstrates a strong connection to one or more of the local First
Nation communities  
  
2 points:  
Self-identifies as Indigenous from one or more of the local First Nation
communities AND demonstrates a strong connection to one or more of the local
First Nation communities  
  
*This criteria may not encapsulate everyone’s lived experience and we apologize if you do not see yourself in these descriptions. If you would like to connect with site leadership and/or residents in the program to discuss your unique story/lived experience please reach out.   
  
Please email your letter to site coordinator Selena Martin selenam@uvic.ca  
  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  • File does not support interest in family medicine  
• Interview suggests lack of non-cognitive family medicine skills  
  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

### **Uniquely B.C:  UBC Family Medicine**

[Family Medicine training in BC](https://postgrad.familypractice.ubc.ca/)
presents you with many unique opportunities. We are a fully accredited
distributed program with 23 training sites and multiple training communities.
In an effort to meet the evolving needs of our society, each site provides a
solid foundation in the knowledge and clinical skills of Family Medicine so
that our graduates are prepared to practice in a variety of settings. While
our program offers diversity of training, it is based on [common goals,
learning objectives, and assessment
standards](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/program-info/).

All residents are required to do a [mandatory 2-month rural
rotation](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/resident-resources/rural-
rotation/) in Family Medicine in their second year. Residents in the Coastal,
or rural programs in the Okanagan or the North complete longer rural
placements. Residents can also apply to participate in Enhanced Rural training
for a total of 4-6 months in rural communities.

There is extensive [academic and administrative
support](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/about/program-matrix/) for the
entire residency program. Our central program administrative team is based in
Vancouver on UBC campus. At the site level, leadership teams are made up of a
Site Director, Site Faculty, Lead Residents and administrators. Lead Program
Faculty provide provincial education support in the areas of curriculum,
assessment, faculty development, scholarship and behavioral medicine.

The Family Practice Postgraduate Education Committee has representation from
all sites to ensure a connected, distributed program that fully meets
accreditation standards. Residents are represented at all levels of
governance.

A wide range of amazing recreational and cultural opportunities are at your
doorstep, as well as a collegial community of residents and physicians with
whom you can learn, grow, and play. We want your experience to be in BC to be
a positive and enjoyable one.

### **Training Sites: Overview**

Visit the [UBC Family Medicine Postgraduate website
](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/)for a detailed overview of each of the 23
sites and their surrounding communities.  Each site provides opportunities to
experience Family Medicine in their unique context, offering special
opportunities to gain experience and skills unique to the area where you are
training.

The following is a list of our sites and their base community/hospital. Each
site serves the surrounding community (see [training
sites](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/training-sites/interactive-map/) for
full details):



**Greater Vancouver / Lower Mainland**

  * Abbotsford-Mission
  * Coastal (North Vancouver, Lion’s Gate Hospital)
  * Chilliwack
  * Indigenous (Greater Vancouver and rural Indigenous communities)
  * St. Paul's (Downtown Vancouver, Inner City)
  * Surrey South Fraser (Surrey Memorial Hospital)
  * Vancouver Fraser (New Westminster, Royal Columbian)



**Interior Region**

  * Kootenay Boundary (Trail, Nelson, Rossland, Castlegar)
  * Kelowna Rural (Kelowna R1 year; rural communities across BC in R2 year)
  * Kelowna Regional
  * North Okanagan (Vernon)
  * Okanagan South (Penticton)
  * Kamloops



**Vancouver Island**

  * Indigenous (Victoria, Ladysmith and rural Indigenous communities including Pacheedaht, Penelakut, ‘Namgis)
  * Quw'utsun (Duncan)
  * Nanaimo 
  * Strathcona (Comox, Campbell River and Courtenay)
  * Victoria



**Northern**

  * Fort St. John (Northeast)
  * Northern Rural (Prince George R1 year; rural communities across BC in R2 year)
  * Prince George
  * Rural Immersion (Hazelton, Smithers, Vanderhoof, Mackenzie, Valemount/McBride, Chetwynd/Tumbler Ridge)
  * Terrace (Rural Northwest)



**IMG positions are offered at the following sites:**

  * Abbotsford-Mission
  * Chilliwack
  * Coastal
  * Fort St. John
  * Kamloops
  * Kootenay Boundary
  * Nanaimo
  * North Okanagan
  * Okanagan South
  * Kelowna Rural
  * Kelowna Regional
  * Prince George
  * Strathcona
  * St. Paul’s
  * Surrey South Fraser
  * Vancouver Fraser
  * Victoria

### **Resident Support**

Resident resilience and wellness is our top priority. Important
[resources](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/resident-resources/resident-
wellness-and-safety/) have been developed by our program to support our
residents throughout the course of the training.

All UBC programs are allocated a fixed amount of funding per resident for
Resident Activities.  This funding is used to provide educational support to
residents during their 2 years of training. This includes funding for
residents to attend program-wide courses and events. Additionally, residents
may identify conferences and educational materials that would supplement their
training experience. A discretionary, per resident funding will also be
allocated to the sites for a similar purpose at the site level.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Located on the traditional unceded territory of Quw’utsun Hwulmuhw (Cowichan
Tribes), this new family medicine residency site,  aims to set a new precedent
for providing a comprehensive family medicine curriculum rooted in the
principles of equity, diversity, and inclusion with particular focus on our
local Indigenous population. Acknowledging our history of harm, we recognize
anti-racism is an active ongoing process to which we remain committed. All
preceptors in addition to our residents will be provided with cultural safety
training through various resources including our local Indigenous Elders.

The Cowichan medical community is close-knit and collegial with multiple group
family practice clinics. Physicians from all specialties casually catch up
during rounds in the hospital where “hallway consults” occur and clinical
information is exchanged in a friendly and collaborative manner.  With healthy
engagement in the Cowichan Valley Division of Family Practice (CVDFP) and the
Cowichan District Medical Society (CDMS) most practitioners are on a first-
name basis.

As a long-standing successful location of one the UBC Integrated Community
Clerkship programs for 3rd year medical students, and as a UBC Indigenous
Residency site, the Cowichan medical community is well poised to take on its
own family medicine residency program.



**Purpose/Objectives**

The vision of the Quw’utsun Family Practice residency site is to provide
residents a supportive and expansive learning experience that produces
curious, community-engaged, and compassionate family physicians.

The mission of the Quw’utsun Family Practice residency site will be built on
the strong tradition of collegiality and cohesiveness for which the Cowichan
medical community is well known. The site will offer a learner-focused
comprehensive interdisciplinary and collaborative educational experience
incorporating multiple medical specialties, allied health professionals, and
community members in a supportive and respectful learning environment. This
site will partner with local Indigenous communities and Elders to build a
trauma-informed and culturally sensitive curriculum that honours the expanded
tenants of equity, diversity, and inclusivity. Graduates will be highly
skilled, confident, community minded physicians who have a deep sense of
compassion for patients and themselves.



**PGY1 & PGY2 Overview**

A hybrid model which includes longitudinal and block curricula will ensure
consistent exposure to the many facets of family medicine. In addition to
dedicated weeks, residents will also spend a full day per week at their family
practice offices to maintain continuity during most off-service rotations.

Residents will have four weeks of vacation per year.



**R1 year**

**Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location/notes**  
---|---|---  
Intro to FM |  4 weeks |  Settle in at FP preceptor’s office, academic sessions, procedural bootcamp  
Family Practice |  10 weeks |  With FP preceptor, hospitalist, urgent care, maternity clinic  
Indigenous |  Longitudinal |  Dedicated academic and experiential time engaging with local Indigenous communities  
IM |  4 weeks |  At Cowichan District Hospital (CDH) ward consults, cardiology lab, and ICU  
Emergency |  4 weeks |  CDH  
Ob |  4 weeks |  Low-risk deliveries  
Peds |  4 weeks |  2 weeks at Victoria General Hospital (VGH) and 2 weeks in outpatient clinics  
Psych |  2 weeks |  At CDH and outpatient clinic  
Gen Surg |  2 weeks |  CDH  
Addictions |  2 weeks |  1 week at VGH, and 1 week at Duncan OPS  
Anesthesia |  1 week |  CDH  
Ortho |  2 weeks |  CDH  
Electives |  6 weeks |     
  
  
**R2 year**

**Rotation** |  **Duration** |  **Location/notes**  
---|---|---  
Family Practice |  16 weeks |  With FP preceptor, hospitalist, palliative, includes transition to independent practice  
Rural |  8 weeks |  As part of rural selective match  
Indigenous |  Longitudinal |  Dedicated academic and experiential time engaging with local Indigenous communities  
IM |  2 weeks |  CDH  
Gyne |  2 weeks |  Outpatient Gyne clinics  
Psych |  2 weeks |  Nanaimo Regional General Hospital (NRGH) ER Psychiatric Emergency Service  
Surg selective |  2 weeks |  CDH  
Addictions |  2 weeks |  At VGH, and Duncan OPS  
Anesthesia |  1 week |  CDH  
Electives |  10 weeks |     
  


**Academic Weeks**

Academic weeks are an interactive time to strengthen experience and knowledge
in components of family medicine. These may include didactic sessions,
simulation, procedural skills workshops, and wellness sessions.



**Scholar**

In the first year, residents complete a quality improvement project and
academic curriculum in patient safety and evidence-based healthcare.
Throughout the two years, residents complete a scholar project and present
their work at a local Scholarship event.



**Electives**

With 16 weeks of elective time available, a resident can dedicate more time to
various interests according to their educational preferences.



**International Electives**

Residents may take one month of interprovincial or international electives as
part of their elective time. This has to meet the standards required by the
UBC Faculty of Medicine, Postgraduate Programs.



**Further Training**

Third year training positions are available in the area of Emergency Medicine,
Care of The Elderly, Anesthesia, Palliative Medicine, Sports and Exercise
Medicine, Clinician Scholars program and a wide range of other category 2
Enhanced Skills programs.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Duncan/Cowichan Tribes:**   Duncan is the heart of the Cowichan Valley,
located midway between Victoria and Nanaimo on Vancouver Island. It has a
population of 5,000 and a larger catchment area population of 38,000.
Cowichan Tribes is the largest First Nation in BC. Cowichan Tribes are part of
a larger group of First Nations, the Coast Salish people.

Cowichan District Hospital (CDH) is an acute care facility with 148 beds. It
serves a population of 84,000 people. In February 2018, there was approval for
a new hospital which began construction in 2023 and is projected to be
completed by 2027. The new facility will have 204 beds. For UBC learners,
there will be a state-of-the-art simulation centre, innovation lab, learner
lounge, private call rooms, study space, meeting rooms, and kitchen.

Cowichan Hospice House is a beautiful facility in Duncan that opened in 2022
equipped with volunteers, palliative care nurses, palliative physicians, and
community family physicians who follow their patients through their sacred end
of life journey.

**Chemainus/Stz'uminus/Snuneymuxw:  ** Chemainus is located on the east coast
of Vancouver Island with a population of ~4000. Stz'uminus First Nation’s
traditional territory on east Vancouver Island includes four reserves of more
than 1,200 hectares, much of it bordering the Strait of Georgia and Ladysmith
Harbour. Stz'uminus First Nation has 1,300 members.

The Snuneymuxw are a vibrant First Nation of the Coast Salish People, residing
in the centre of Coast Salish territory on the eastern coast of Vancouver
Island, with villages on the Fraser River and waterways in the Gulf Islands.
Snuneymuxw territory encompasses one of the most productive and resource rich
areas at the heart of the Salish Sea.

The Chemainus Health Care Centre is an Urgent Care Unit open 8am-8pm with 5
beds staffed with nurses and one family or ER physician. Since the COVID-19
pandemic, the unit has seen patients from the entire Cowichan Valley and even
from Nanaimo. The level of acuity and volume of patients has expanded
accordingly.

* * *

# Additional Information

Number of Residents: 4 CMG

Location: Duncan, Cowichan Valley, Chemainus, Ladysmith, Penelakut Island

Communities: 38,000

Hospitals: Cowichan District Hospital, Chemainus Health Care Centre

Curriculum Type: a hybrid model including longitudinal and block curricula

R1 Elective Time: 6 weeks

R2 Elective Time: 10 Weeks

  
Contacts: Co-Site Directors, Dr. Tom Rimmer
[tom.rimmer@ubc.ca](mailto:tom.rimmer@ubc.ca) &  Dr. Kirsten Yip
[Kirsten.yip@ubc.ca](mailto:Kirsten.yip@ubc.ca)

Site Coordinator: Selena Martin [selenam@uvic.ca](mailto:selenam@uvic.ca)

Expansion Manager: Nicole Cullen
[nicole.cullen@ubc.ca](mailto:nicole.cullen@ubc.ca)

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26307?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26307