#  Western University - Neuropathology - London  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 05, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Qi Zhang  

Address Pathology and Laboratory Medicine  
University Hospital, LHSC  
Room A3-222  
London, Ontario, N6A 5C1  

Work  519-661-2111 x86389

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Pathology and Laboratory Medicine
](http://www.schulich.uwo.ca/pathol/)  
[ Western NP
](https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/pathol//postgraduate/residency_programs/neuropathology.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Ms. Cheryl Campbell

Title: Program Coordinator, Neuropathology

Email: ccampbel@uwo.ca

Phone: 519-661-2111 X86389

  

* * *

# Important Information

The Neuropathology training program at Western's Schulich School of Medicine &
Dentistry received full accreditation (2019).  We are schedule for our next
review in Spring 2025.

All programs at Western commence on July 1.

There will be a one-day orientation in London (date TBA) that all residents
are strongly encouraged to attend.





* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

There are no additional general instructions beyond those described by CaRMS.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

Must be a Canadian Citizen/Permanent Resident. Proof of valid current
citizenship or permanent resident status must be provided (by submitting one
of the following verifications to CaRMS by the Rank Order List deadline.
Failure to provide valid proof will result in your application being removed.
No other forms of verification are acceptable.  

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  2. Notarized/certified photocopy of Canadian Passport, or
  3. Notarized/certified photocopy of confirmation of permanent residence accompanied by a photo ID (must be a Canadian government issued photo ID), or
  4. Notarized/certified photocopy of Permanent Resident Card/Canadian Citizen Card - copies of both sides of card must be provided and legible.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three reference letters are required and should be written by staff
physicians/faculty members who know the applicant well and who can speak to
the applicant's aptitude for Neurosciences in general and Neuropathology in
particular. All reference letters will be reviewed.  In applying to the
program, the applicant gives permission for us to contact referees directly.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Required.

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

All applicants must submit a personal letter of application of approximately
1,000 words. This should include a description of your interest in
Neuropathology, why you are well-suited to the specialty, and what makes you a
good candidate for our training program. Please include any other pertinent
information which may be helpful in the selection process.  

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Any members of the Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine may be
involved in the review process.  The review of applications is independent
(not by consensus) and considers all aspects of the application.  

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 3, 2025
  * February 4, 2025
  * February 5, 2025
  * February 6, 2025
  * February 7, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Virtual interviews will be arranged as per
the dates above (February 3-7, 2025).  
  
Additional interview dates may be available and arranged on an individual
basis by contacting the Neuropathology Program Coordinator, Ms. Cheryl
Campbell ([ccampbel@uwo.ca](mailto:cheryl.campbell@schulich.uwo.ca)).  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: After review of their files,
candidates may be invited for interview.  We reserve the right to adjust the
interview process so as to be fair to all eligible applicants.  
  
The interview process consists of a series of one-on-one interviews, each
approximately 30 minutes in length.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates will be selected on the basis of their academic record, proven
interest in and aptitude for Neuropathology, letters of recommendation and
interviews.

Superior communication and interpersonal skills and a strong desire for
scholarship, collaboration, mentorship and teamwork are essential.  

## Program goals

The goal of the Neuropathology (NP) program is to provide residents with
excellent training in all areas of NP.  In addition, residents should have a
good understanding of basic and clinical neurosciences, acting as a resource
in clinical practice and research.  After completion of training, the
residents will have the knowledge and skills to pass the Royal College
Examination and to function as consultant neuropathologists and possess the
foundation to become leaders in the field.  As neuropathologists typically
practice in large academic institutions, graduates should embrace both
teaching and research as integral aspects of the specialty.

## Selection process goals

Skills and attributes of a successful applicant will be considered by the RPC,
file reviewers and the Program Director.  These skills and attributes are
designed to give residents the greatest opportunity for success in the
program:

  * Demonstrated interest in / commitment to Pathology
  * Effective communication and interpersonal skills
  * Academic ability
  * Suitability for training
  * Ability to work independently and in a team
  * Research interest and ability

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is comprised of the Program Director
and designated members of the Residency Program Committee.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Effective balance between personal and professional activities   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Evidence of academic success   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Varied activities which promote balance in personal development   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership potential in professional and personal endeavours   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evidence of academic success   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstrated interest in Neurosciences and/or the specialty of Neuropathology   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  CanMEDS domains   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Interest and aptitude in scholarly work   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evidence of academic success, including Neurosciences and Pathology   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We do not consider elective choice as a screening
measure for interviews

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due
to weather, technology failure or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Insight, mindfulness and awareness of collaborative opportunities   
Collegiality |  Aptitude to work harmoniously with others   
Communication skills |  Ability to communicate effectively in spoken English   
Health advocacy |  Awareness of impact of Neuropathology diagnoses on patient health   
Interest in the discipline |  Awareness of skills and abilities required   
Interest in the program |  Familiarity with Western, Clinical Neurosciences and Pathology at Western and elsewhere   
Leadership skills |  Aptitude and ability to lead   
Professionalism |  Professionalism during interview   
Scholarly activities |  Interest in research   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Neuropathology training program at Western is one of the country's oldest
(since 1972) and most productive.  Our graduates have been highly successful
in the Royal College examinations and their careers in Canada and around the
world in clinical work, research, education and administration.

Our program enjoys strong partnerships with programs in Diagnostic and
Molecular Pathology (formerly known as Anatomical Pathology) and Clinical
Neurological Sciences (with training programs in Neurology, Neurosurgery and
Neuroradiology).  These close working relationships extend through patient
care, consultations, teaching, shared rounds and research collaborations each
enhancing the training environment for Neuropathology Residents.

Our teaching hospitals, affiliated with the Schulich School of Medicine &
Dentistry, provide tertiary care for over 2.5 million people in Southwestern
and Central Ontario.  Our colleagues in Neurology, Neurosurgery and
Neuroradiology have an even larger referral base (estimated to be over 3.5
million), providing Neuropathology trainees with broad and deep exposure.

Western University, founded in 1878, hosts close to 30,000 undergraduate
students, making it one of Canada's largest.  Our trainees are part of a large
and highly integrated centre dedicated to health care and health care
education.  With the country's highest entrance average in the Sciences,
Western is a leader in undergraduate training and in healthcare fields
including Medicine, Dentistry, Public Health, Nursing, Physiotherapy,
Occupational Therapy and Speech Therapy.  Western's campus and our teaching
hospitals, clinics and research facilities are enriched by more than 1000
Medical and Dental students and a similar number of Residents and Fellows from
our various specialty training programs.  Western remains a key element in
London's history and prosperity, boasting a long and rich tradition of
prominent alumni that continues to expand thanks to world-class students,
faculty and facilities.

http://www.uwo.ca/

https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Neuropathology**

The goal of the Neuropathology (NP) program is to provide residents with
world-class training in all areas of NP.  Residents should also have a good
understanding of basic and clinical neurosciences to act as a resource person
in clinical practice and research. After completion of training, graduates
will have knowledge and skills to pass the Royal College Examination, function
as consultant neuropathologists and possess the foundation to become leaders
in the field. As neuropathologists usually practice in large academic centers,
they should also embrace the roles of teaching and research in this specialty.

The Neuropathology program at Western University received full accreditation
(2019). The program transitioned to competency based medical education
curriculum (CBME) in July 2022.

The transition to discipline and the foundational stages are designed to
provide a broad based medical training and build a foundation for
Neuropathology training. It includes rotations in Internal Medicine,
Pediatrics, Neurology, Neurosurgery, Neuroradiology, Anatomical Pathology and
Neuropathology.

During the core training, trainees in the NP work closely with the staff
neuropathologists on a daily basis helping to prepare, study, diagnose and
report on the surgical and autopsy material that comes to the Division.
Trainees are also exposed to technical procedures that are special to NP and
additional laboratory management considerations. In addition to general adult
surgical and autopsy NP, residents gain cumulative exposure to neurocytology,
developmental NP, perinatal and pediatric NP, forensic NP and neuromuscular
pathology. A two-month rotation in Pediatric Neuropathology at the University
of British Columbia or the University of Toronto is mandatory. Residents are
also required to gain experience in cytogenetics, molecular pathology and
electron microscopy. Residents are required to participate and present in
academic rounds and conferences.

At the stage of transition to practice, NP residents are expected to provide
supervisory, teaching, and leadership roles for the more junior NP residents
and off-service residents.



**Education Program**  

A weekly academic half day (Tuesday mornings) incorporates a number of
elements including case presentations, basic/clinical topic reviews and
journal reviews.  Unknown microscopic slide sessions are another key element
where selected cases are examined by residents who learn to derive a
histopathological diagnosis based on a step-by-step Socratic analysis of the
histopathological findings.  Attendance in the Neuroscience Grand Rounds is
also part of the education program for NP residents. A large number of
additional high-quality educational rounds (Neuroradiology, Neuromuscular,
Stroke, Epilepsy, Surgical Pathology, Forensic Pathology, etc.) and academic
half-day curricula (Anatomic Pathology, City-wide Academic half-day) are
available. Additional teaching sessions relevant to wider groups (all
Neuroscience residents as well as AP and NP residents) are interspersed.  

The program is enriched by the constant stream of Neurology, Neurosurgery and
Anatomical Pathology residents rotating through providing different
perspectives to the subject of Neuropathology. Appraisal and critical reading
of journals and research papers is acquired through participation at the
Pathology Journal Club Seminar Series run by the Pathology Graduate Medical
Education.  At PGY4/PGY5, residents are required to participate in a self-
assessment program in which each resident will formulate a customized study
plan covering all the topics in the NP curriculum and assignments on the
individual topics will be posted for the resident for completion on a regular
basis.  The program director will oversee the implementation of this program
but the individual residents will be responsible for completing the
assignments in a timely fashion.  A weekly series of practical examinations
with microscopic slides and powerpoint presentations is instituted to prepare
PGY5 residents for the fellowship examination.



**Electives**

There is a period up to 12 months available for each resident for elective
rotations. Common elective rotations include Neurology, Neurosurgery, Neuro-
oncology, and Pediatric Neuropathology.  Residents could also take a research
elective on a project related to Neuroscience or Pathology.



**Research**

Opportunities for research are innumerable and our trainees are regularly
published and frequent awardees at departmental, local, national and
international scientific conferences. Residents are encouraged to participate
in clinical and bench research and there exists an abundance of retrievable
pathological material available for residents to use for case reviews and
reports.   Residents have access to funding to attend scientific conferences.



**Evaluations**

Resident evaluations at end of rotation are based on the CanMEDS Roles -
Medical Expert, Communicator, Collaborator, Manager, Health Advocate, Scholar
and Professional.  In addition, short-answer question exams, practical (glass
slide and image-based) exams and oral examinations are given periodically each
year. Continuation in the program is contingent upon satisfactory performance
in these areas.

https://www.schulich.uwo.ca/pathol/postgraduate/residency_programs/neuropathology.html



* * *

# Training Sites

**Neuropathology Resources**

The Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Department is centralized at London
Health Sciences Centre, University Hospital.  All pathologists and residents
work together, on one site, in a new and modern department.  The department is
equipped with digital imaging equipment and residents have dedicated computer
access to the internet and to word processing and Powerpoint software as well
as a digital camera attached to a microscope.  On-line acess to medical
journals is standard.

https://www.lib.uwo.ca/

The department serves as a referral centre for over 2,500,000 people in
Southern Ontario ensuring exposure to a wide range of pathological material
(approximately 600 autopsies, 55,000 surgical and 30,000 cytological
specimens).  The department is equipped for Electron Microscopy,
Immunopathology and Molecular Pathology/Cytogenetics, and there are complete
services in Medical Biochemistry, Medical Microbiology, and Hematology.
Regional cytogenetics and clinical immunology laboratories are located in
London.  The Clinical Neurological Sciences brings together Neurology,
Neurosurgery, Neuroradiology and Neuropathology in a deeply collaborative
environment of patient care, teaching and research.

http://www.schulich.uwo.ca/pathol/

http://www.cnsuwo.ca/



* * *

# Additional Information

**About London**

London was first inhabited in the early 1800s and incorporated as a city in
1855.  With its abundant trees and parks, "The Forest City" is a pleasant home
to more than 350,000 located in Southwestern Ontario, midway between Toronto
and Windsor/Detroit. London offers many of the amenities of a larger city
without the .  A sizable proportion of London's population works at Western
University or in one of the several health care or research facilities.
London is also home to several large corporations creating a strong economic
base.   outstanding restaurants, markets, a vibrant visuaul art and performing
arts scene and many community-oriented events.  The London International
airport facilitates regional, national and international travel.

For sports fans, London has much to offer including top amateur and
professional sports teams.  Individual and team summer and winter sports
facilities and leagues are extensive for all levels of expertise. Water sports
are available at Fanshawe Lake (in the city), Lake Huron (30 minutes northwest
of the city) and Lake Erie (30 minutes south).  The city also boasts extensive
manicured and paved pathways along the Thames River and tributaries,
connecting the grounds of Western University and various city parks for
walking, running, cycling and rollerblading. In the short winter months, cross
country skiing is available throughout the city in parks and on groomed
trails.  Although we have no Rockies, downhill skiing is avialable at the
London Ski Club with larger elevations near Collingwood and Barrie.  Mountain
biking, hiking, golfing, racquet sports and other recreational activities are
abundantly available.

London also hosts a variety of summer festivals that celebrate our diversity
of music, food and culture.  For big-city entertainment, Toronto and Detroit
are a convenient 2 hours from London by car or train.  The town of Stratford,
home of the renowned Stratford festival (Shakespearean and other live theater)
is a 40 minute drive from London.

**<http://www.londontourism.ca/>**



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27158?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27158