#  University of British Columbia - Family Medicine - Kootenay Boundary  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 08, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Joshua Greggain  

Address Faculty of Medicine – Department of Family Practice  
300-5950 University Boulevard  
Vancouver, British Columbia, V6T 1Z3  

Websites of Interest [ UBC CaRMS Website ](http://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Jana Ogdenova

Title: Program Co-manager

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Kelly Jacobs

Title: Program Co-manager

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Cindy Choi

Title: Education Coordinator

Email: residency@familymed.ubc.ca

  

Name: Leah McInnes

Title: Site Coordinator

Email: leah.mcinnes@ubc.ca

  

Name: Dr. Megan Taylor

Title: Site Director

Email: megan.taylor@ubc.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Prospective residents should refer to the [Family Medicine Residency
Selection](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/) website for ongoing updates,
deadlines and detailed information.  
  

In order to apply for a residency position in the CaRMS match, International
Medical Graduates (IMG’s) must be selected through the [UBC Clinical
Assessment Program (CAP)](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/resource/clinical-
assessment/). The [IMG BC website](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/) provides key
information regarding this process.

IMG residents matched into a UBC program are required to attend a [mandatory
multi-day orientation](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/path-to-
residency/orientation/) prior to the start of their residency.

####  

FMProC: Important timelines

For the 2025 residency selection cycle ALL FM residency programs in Canada
require applicants to sit FMProC for those applying in both rounds of CaRMS.



FMProC test window for CaRMS first Iteration is from **October 28 (8AM ET) to
November 11, 2024 (10AM ET).  **

Registration opens from **September 11 (12 noon ET) and closes on November 07,
2024 (10AM ET).  **

** **

To register and find out more about the test please go to**
****[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/)**. All test related updates will
be posted on the website.

Requests to register or to sit the test outside of the posted deadlines will
not be considered.



**Upon completion of FMProC,  you must upload** your FMProC result letter to
CaRMS for your application to be considered complete.

** **

* * *

# Return of Service

The IMG stream is subject to a Return of Service (ROS). Successfully matched
applicants are required to sign a contract with the Ministry of Health as a
condition of accepting a medical residency position. Templates of the ROS
contract and allocation details can be reviewed on the MOH ROS website here:
[International Medical Graduates -
BC](https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/health/practitioner-professional-
resources/physician-compensation/return-service-programs/pgme-img-program "
International Medical Graduates - BC")

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Resident selection for the UBC Family Medicine program is a collaborative
process between all of our sites. Logistics and administration of resident
selection is managed by our central program office in Vancouver, located at
the UBC Point Grey Campus.

As the UBC Family Medicine Program is distributed into 23 unique sites and
locations, candidates should apply to each site they are interested in.  
Applicants must submit same application package to all sites to which they
apply.  

Regardless of the number of sites applicants apply to and rank, **only one
interview will be conducted**.

A variety of virtual information sessions will be held to provide prospective
residents with the opportunity to learn more about the programs and discuss
the training experience with faculty and current residents. Please visit
[Program Events](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/interviews-and-program-
events/) for upcoming events.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

**Required documents for applicants submitting Citizenship documentation via
CaRMS (and not participating in third party verification)**

**Canadian Citizenship**

The province of British Columbia will accept one of the following
notarized/certified documents as proof of the citizenship/permanent residency
and is required for all types of applicants. Photocopies are accepted but,
citizenship documents other than what is listed below are not accepted.  Proof
of citizenship/permanent residency must be submitted to CaRMS by the File
Review deadline.  No allowances for late submission.

  * Canadian Birth Certificate
  * Canadian Passport
  * Canadian Citizenship Certificate
  * Canadian Citizen Card (both sides)
  * Current Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides)

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**IMG applicants:**

IMG applicants need not provide evidence of English language testing if the
primary language of medical education or patient care was in English. If the
primary language of medical education or patient care was NOT in English then
applicants must fulfill the English language proficiency requirements by the
start of Ranking Period.



See CPSBC English Language Proficiency Requirements here for more information:
<https://www.cpsbc.ca/files/pdf/REG-ELP.pdf>

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

MCCQE Part 1 Exam Information: <https://mcc.ca/examinations/mccqe-part-i/>

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).



NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required.

  * Regardless of reference source, reference letters should speak to an interest in Family Medicine and aptitude for the discipline.
  * Using anecdotal narrative if possible, letters should provide evidence of attributes and abilities well suited for a career in Family Medicine.
  * These attributes and abilities are also evaluated in our interview process (see interview criteria and components).

Note: Traditional narrative letters will **NOT**** ** be accepted.  
Please note that should your reference submit a traditional letter it will not
be reviewed and your application may be deemed incomplete.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

_Provide a biographical letter (max. 750 words) that includes answers to the
following questions:_

_1.__        What life skills or lived experience do you have that demonstrate
your suitability for family medicine residency training?_

_2.__        Why would a career in Family Medicine be a good fit for you?_

_3.__        Why UBC? Why British Columbia? Please elaborate with specific
examples of any connections you might have with the province of B.C., like
community connections, education, work experience, etc. _

_4.__        What clinical experience have you had in Canada?_

_5.__        What experience do you have in community-based family medicine?_

_ _

_**Note:   The same letter must be submitted with each site application.**_

Custom Résumé / CV

IMG-BC Clinical Assessment Program

The UBC Clinical Assessment Program (CAP) Letter is provided to CaRMS by UBC
IMG Office.

Applicants should only provide the documents requested by the program. No
other documents submitted will be reviewed.

Optional - will be reviewed

Family Medicine rural addendum/questionnaire

**Rural Questionnaire:**

  * Candidates are **strongly encouraged**  to include this supporting document when they apply to a rural site.
  * Completion of the rural questionnaire will identify the applicant as someone with a special interest in rural training and practice.
  * If you apply to both urban _and  _rural sites, completion of the rural questionnaire will not prevent applicants from being considered for an urban placement.
  * A score attributed to the questionnaire will be provided to Site directors at rural sites for consideration _after  _the interview period. This will be a stand-alone metric and does not contribute to the total file review score.
  * The following sites are considered rural and will use the rural questionnaire score when generating their site rank list: 
    * Kelowna Rural
    * Kootenay Boundary
    * Northern Rural
    * Northwest - Terrace
    * Northeast - Fort St. John
    * Okanagan South
    * Prince George
    * Strathcona
    * Rural Immersion
    * Quw'utsun
  * _Note:  _Training at the Indigenous sites include about 50% rural training, but will _not_  use the rural questionnaire in their ranking



**Rural Questionnaire:**

_(Answer the following questions. Please write your responses under each
question; 250 words max per question)_

  1. **_Describe your personal rural background and/or rural involvement and experience, both prior to and during medical school._**
  2. **_What has led you to apply for a residency in rural Family Medicine and why would you value a rural residency position?_**
  3. **_Describe the type of future rural practice that would fit you best._**



**Note:**  You must upload your responses under 'Family Medicine Rural
addendum/questionnaire'. Any responses submitted to 'Program questionnaire' or
any other sections not relevant to Rural addendum/questionnaire will not be
considered.





* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 18, 2025
  * January 19, 2025
  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025
  * January 25, 2025
  * January 26, 2025
  * January 27, 2025
  * January 28, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: 2025 R-1 match interviews will continue to
be in a virtual format.  
  
The national interview period is January 18- February 09, 2025.  
**UBC interviews** will take place between the dates of **January 18-28, 2025.
**  
  
Please note that candidates will be interviewed once, regardless of number of
training sites you apply to.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: All interviews will be conducted in a
live, synchronous MMI format. The UBC Family Medicine (FM) program will
contact the selected applicants by email to provide program-specific interview
details and interview links.  
  
If you wish to add a new program/site to your rank list after your interview,
you must update your CaRMS application by our **Program deadline, January 29,
2025**. This date will be posted here as soon as it is determined.  
  
Any additional sites added to your application after this date will not be
considered for ranking.  
  
  
**Important** : you must also link your documents to any newly ranked site.  
  
Regardless of the number of sites to which you apply, one final score will be
generated after the interview.  
If you are matched, the program will be unable to facilitate transfer from one
site to another.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Applicants must submit an application to each site they are interested in and
should assign the same set of documents to each site. Selection is based on
file review and one set of MMI interviews. Each file is reviewed and given a
score. This file review score determines whether a candidate is offered an
interview. The file review score is then combined with the interview score and
FMProC score to create a total score for each applicant. **The file review
score will contribute to 50%, interview score will contribute to 45%, and
FMProC score will contribute to 5% of the overall global score.** This total
score informs the creation of a rank list which is submitted to each site for
consideration. Some sites will use this as the final rank list while some
sites will apply their own adjustments to this list based on local site
selection committee input.

** **

## Program goals

  1. To graduate residents who have developed the competencies needed to begin independent family practice in diverse community settings.
  2. To deliver an effective academic, clinical and scholarly educational program.
  3. To graduate residents who are inspired, resilient, and balanced.
  4. To graduate residents who demonstrate evidence-based and reflective practice.
  5. To provide working and learning environments that ensure residents, faculty and staff feel respected and supported.

## Selection process goals

  1. Identify individuals with an aptitude for family medicine who are most likely to thrive in our diverse residency sites and in the unique context of British Columbia communities.
  2. Identify individuals with a demonstrated solid foundation of clinical skills and clinical approach which equips them for Postgraduate Education training.
  3. Identify individuals who have consistent professional behavior; who interact appropriately with patients, colleagues and staff.
  4. Identify mature, motivated individuals with a broad range of life experience which they can draw upon to adapt to the demands of residency training.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is composed of faculty leadership
from across our distributed program, the program director and senior
administration.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 201 - 400  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Clinical experiences gained through electives are considered   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership skills are considered in the context of the personal letters and reference letters   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Taken into consideration only if professionalism issues are identified   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Demonstrated suitability to Family Medicine and training in BC through experience and life skills   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Demonstrated suitability through attributes, abilities and interest in the discipline   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
Other file component(s) |  1\. Graduation Year  
2\. BC Clinical Assessment Program Quartile Rank  
3\. MCQQE Part I  
  
Note: A CV, the MSPR and transcripts are required supporting documents by
CaRMS but are not scored as part of the UBC Family Practice file review
process.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Clinical experiences gained through electives are
considered

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Yes: with patients and colleagues   
Collegiality |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Communication skills |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Health advocacy |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Interest in the discipline |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Interest in the program |  Yes: UBC in general, and in specific programs (rural, under-served populations, inner-city context etc.)   
Leadership skills |  Yes: assessment of leadership of self and others   
Professionalism |  Yes we evaluate this criteria   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component   
Other interview component(s) |  Ability to handle Ambiguity/Uncertainty  
Advocacy/Compassion  
Resilience  
Patient centeredness  
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  
Other :  Demonstrated community engagement or community connection to the
Kootenay Boundary region may be considered in the final rank list.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
Other :  • File does not support interest in family medicine  
• Interview suggests lack of non-cognitive family medicine skills  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

### **Uniquely B.C:  UBC Family Medicine**

[Family Medicine training in BC](https://postgrad.familypractice.ubc.ca/)
presents you with many unique opportunities. We are a fully accredited
distributed program with 23 training sites and multiple training communities.
In an effort to meet the evolving needs of our society, each site provides a
solid foundation in the knowledge and clinical skills of Family Medicine so
that our graduates are prepared to practice in a variety of settings. While
our program offers diversity of training, it is based on [common goals,
learning objectives, and assessment
standards](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/program-info/).

All residents are required to do a [mandatory 2-month rural
rotation](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/resident-resources/rural-
rotation/) in Family Medicine in their second year. Residents in the Coastal,
or rural programs in the Okanagan or the North complete longer rural
placements. Residents can also apply to participate in Enhanced Rural training
for a total of 4-6 months in rural communities.

There is extensive [academic and administrative
support](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/about/program-matrix/) for the
entire residency program. Our central program administrative team is based in
Vancouver on UBC campus. At the site level, leadership teams are made up of a
Site Director, Site Faculty, Lead Residents and administrators. Lead Program
Faculty provide provincial education support in the areas of curriculum,
assessment, faculty development, scholarship and behavioral medicine.

The Family Practice Postgraduate Education Committee has representation from
all sites to ensure a connected, distributed program that fully meets
accreditation standards. Residents are represented at all levels of
governance.

A wide range of amazing recreational and cultural opportunities are at your
doorstep, as well as a collegial community of residents and physicians with
whom you can learn, grow, and play. We want your experience to be in BC to be
a positive and enjoyable one.

### **Training Sites: Overview**

Visit the [UBC Family Medicine Postgraduate website
](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/)for a detailed overview of each of the 23
sites and their surrounding communities.  Each site provides opportunities to
experience Family Medicine in their unique context, offering special
opportunities to gain experience and skills unique to the area where you are
training.

The following is a list of our sites and their base community/hospital. Each
site serves the surrounding community (see [training
sites](https://carms.familymed.ubc.ca/training-sites/interactive-map/) for
full details):



**Greater Vancouver / Lower Mainland**

  * Abbotsford-Mission
  * Coastal (North Vancouver, Lion’s Gate Hospital)
  * Chilliwack
  * Indigenous (Greater Vancouver and rural Indigenous communities)
  * St. Paul's (Downtown Vancouver, Inner City)
  * Surrey South Fraser (Surrey Memorial Hospital)
  * Vancouver Fraser (New Westminster, Royal Columbian)



**Interior Region**

  * Kootenay Boundary (Trail, Nelson, Rossland, Castlegar)
  * Kelowna Rural (Kelowna R1 year; rural communities across BC in R2 year)
  * Kelowna Regional
  * North Okanagan (Vernon)
  * Okanagan South (Penticton)
  * Kamloops



**Vancouver Island**

  * Indigenous (Victoria, Ladysmith and rural Indigenous communities including Pacheedaht, Penelakut, ‘Namgis)
  * Quw'utsun (Duncan)
  * Nanaimo 
  * Strathcona (Comox, Campbell River and Courtenay)
  * Victoria



**Northern**

  * Fort St. John (Northeast)
  * Northern Rural (Prince George R1 year; rural communities across BC in R2 year)
  * Prince George
  * Rural Immersion (Hazelton, Smithers, Vanderhoof, Mackenzie, Valemount/McBride, Chetwynd/Tumbler Ridge)
  * Terrace (Rural Northwest)



**IMG positions are offered at the following sites:**

  * Abbotsford-Mission
  * Chilliwack
  * Coastal
  * Fort St. John
  * Kamloops
  * Kootenay Boundary
  * Nanaimo
  * North Okanagan
  * Okanagan South
  * Kelowna Rural
  * Kelowna Regional
  * Prince George
  * Strathcona
  * St. Paul’s
  * Surrey South Fraser
  * Vancouver Fraser
  * Victoria

### **Resident Support**

Resident resilience and wellness is our top priority. Important
[resources](https://postgrad.familymed.ubc.ca/resident-resources/resident-
wellness-and-safety/) have been developed by our program to support our
residents throughout the course of the training.

All UBC programs are allocated a fixed amount of funding per resident for
Resident Activities.  This funding is used to provide educational support to
residents during their 2 years of training. This includes funding for
residents to attend program-wide courses and events. Additionally, residents
may identify conferences and educational materials that would supplement their
training experience. A discretionary, per resident funding will also be
allocated to the sites for a similar purpose at the site level.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**Introduction**

The Kootenay Boundary Program is ideal for a highly motivated and independent
resident who is comfortable living and working in rural, isolated sites. It is
located 630 km from Vancouver. Travel between several of the training
locations and communities is required, and so experience in mountain winter
driving conditions and having a 4-wheel/AWD drive vehicle is essential. The
area is remote and often difficult to access by air, especially in the winter,
so an understanding of the difficulties in traveling to and from the site must
be appreciated. The site attracts residents who are motivated to practice in
isolated areas, who enjoy what rural life has to offer, and who seek the
challenges of experiential, independent, self-directed learning. Our residents
thrive on trying new things and being flexible and willing to adapt. While the
area excels in offering premier recreational and outdoor activities, as well
as artistic and musical events, it may not suit those who are more comfortable
with greater cultural opportunities and more diverse social networks.

The first year of the program delivers the majority of the curriculum in the
two communities of Trail and Nelson (70 km distance), and so significant
driving is involved. This involves having to stay away from a primary
residence to participate in on-call responsibilities. The residents are
attached to family practice clinics clustered around Nelson and Trail but must
travel between the two sites for structured learning opportunities delivered
in both Kootenay Boundary Regional Hospital and Kootenay Lake Hospital. At the
end of the first year, a two-month remote rural rotation is undertaken in the
communities of Grand Forks and Nakusp, and residents will need to live in
these communities during this time. The second year gives residents the
opportunity to customize their learning opportunities to each site, but
realistically significant travel will still be involved.

Residents who do well in our program enjoy self-directed learning, meaning
they are comfortable working in a hospital where they need to take the
initiative to get involved with patient care to meet their personal learning
needs. In the R1 year, because we are not a full service-based hospital, the
level of responsibility may be less on some rotations compared to other
programs, but in the R2 year, responsibility is closer to the level of a
practicing rural physician, with the support of preceptors. Residents need to
be able to motivate themselves in the R1 year so that they are not overwhelmed
in the R2 year.

Residents who struggle in our program tend to be those who have difficulty
being away from their partner or family. Travel to and from a larger center is
often arduous and complicated by weather conditions, and so weekend trips away
are difficult to arrange. Due to the remote locations and travel involved, it
is preferable that a resident’s partner or family be mobile and able to move
with them.

Our program delivers curriculum in a longitudinal and integrated manner over
two years with the first year involving more structured learning in acute
presentations and management and the second year allowing more flexibility for
electives and focuses on individual learning requirements for competency.

Family physicians primarily deliver the program in their private offices, and
in several rural, community and regional hospital settings and a variety of
other outpatient community healthcare clinics and facilities, e.g., Primary
Maternity Care, Mental Health and Chronic Pain Clinics, and Geriatrics in
residential care centers. The specialty core content is delivered by a
supportive contingent of specialists who work directly with family physicians.

The resident will be based in a family practice clinic with one or two
preceptors for the full two years and will be rotated through more rural
family practice clinics during scheduled rural elective blocks to broaden
their experience. After an initial two months based in family practice, on a
weekly basis, the resident will spend a one day every two weeks in the family
practice office and will be encouraged to develop their own “mini-practice.”
The remainder of the week is allocated to specialty exposure or tailored
learning needs.

**Purpose/Objectives**

As reflected in the Department's Mission Statement, we welcome applicants who
are committed to meeting the rural medical needs of British Columbia and
Canada. We train residents to be prepared for full-service family practice
including obstetrics and inpatient care. This site specifically trains
residents to practice in rural areas, utilizing experienced and community-
based faculty as mentors.

**Principles**

  * We provide community-based training.
  * We encourage experiential learning in an academically monitored environment. 
  * We foster self-confidence and skills necessary to allow graduates to function effectively in a rural practice setting.
  * We encourage residents to learn how to balance their personal needs with the demands of rural practice.
  * We are committed to ongoing evaluation of the outcome and effectiveness of a rural training program.



**Rural Training Program**

**A rural training program is ideal for you if you have:**

  * Motivation to practice in rural, remote locations;
  * Commitment to meet the medical needs of these types of communities;
  * Understanding of and an interest in family medicine;
  * Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, and also the ability to be self-directed;
  * Reference letters which attest to your ability and interest in family medicine, as well as your specific interest in rural medicine;
  * A willingness to live in a geographically isolated region of the province and to travel to several remote rural sites for training;
  * The ability to adapt to learning in a non-traditional non-academic center;
  * The ability to function psychologically and socially in remote settings;
  * The ability to take rational risks ('Rational Risk Takers'), while maintaining a sense of professionalism; and
  * A strong sense of social justice and accountability.

**PGY1 and PGY2 Overview**

**Core Rotations** ***click on the name of each rotation to go to the handbook** |  **Resident A**  
**Resident B** |  **Resident C**  
**Resident D**  
---|---|---  
[Home Clinic](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sN1XPNBEwlxdAPLfDxuMU0rzeyTjIMQvmaIzHPSxmoQ/pub) (8 weeks in Sep/Oct, 2 weeks mid residency, 10 weeks at the end of R2) |  _20 weeks_ |  _20 weeks_  
[ER](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qU2hcaMeeJIB_Tki6xz8KJFyW1KvlULxCLNlsiCimW8/pub)[ (Castlegar)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qU2hcaMeeJIB_Tki6xz8KJFyW1KvlULxCLNlsiCimW8/pub) |  _2 weeks_ |  _2 weeks_  
[ER](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PGFQPsfsh8cyKCvcW8dm4piaNTy1d-6hUemKumEDCpY/pub)[ Nelson](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PGFQPsfsh8cyKCvcW8dm4piaNTy1d-6hUemKumEDCpY/pub)  |  _2 weeks_ |  _4 weeks_  
[ER ](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GV1W_xglRmmv9amptnjjNtJYzdNRgOXNiaT30n4WOiA/pub)[Trail](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GV1W_xglRmmv9amptnjjNtJYzdNRgOXNiaT30n4WOiA/pub) |  _4 weeks_ |  _2 weeks_  
[IM](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vOybOC_ONSHwljL_f6DLlP71upjXq2wpS03_dAKC8iU/pub)[ (Trail)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vOybOC_ONSHwljL_f6DLlP71upjXq2wpS03_dAKC8iU/pub) |  _2 weeks_ |  _2 weeks_  
[Hospitalist](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1vOybOC_ONSHwljL_f6DLlP71upjXq2wpS03_dAKC8iU)[ (Trail)](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1vOybOC_ONSHwljL_f6DLlP71upjXq2wpS03_dAKC8iU) |  _4 weeks_ |  _4 weeks_  
[Outpatient IM](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1ts4W59gMRmo1jlvadjnLI1tflvjjvveKHwaWG0O45Pw)[ (Nelson)](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1ts4W59gMRmo1jlvadjnLI1tflvjjvveKHwaWG0O45Pw) |  _4  weeks (2 wks focus on inpt IM)_ |  _4 weeks  (2 wks focus on inpt IM)_  
[ICU](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v58rCPzbnjctOhWDWKQSC3JehRcsiqiILsCBephyRSI/pub)[  (Trail)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v58rCPzbnjctOhWDWKQSC3JehRcsiqiILsCBephyRSI/pub) |  _4 weeks_ |  _4 weeks_  
[Surgery](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14D49F9tfkvZnolUoz4lYL28iv57OptZT7eN3zykjNdk/pub)[ (2 wks Ortho, 2 wks Anaesthesia/Mixed Surg, 4 wks Gen Surg) (Trail)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14D49F9tfkvZnolUoz4lYL28iv57OptZT7eN3zykjNdk/pub) |  _6 weeks_ |  _6 weeks_  
[Gyne](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13JD1dA_V4a-AC4eODyatcQnUmH0SqoAE0D1OXz_MSR8/edit?usp=sharing)[ (Trail)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13JD1dA_V4a-AC4eODyatcQnUmH0SqoAE0D1OXz_MSR8/edit?usp=sharing) |  _2 weeks_ |  _N/A_  
[Family Practice OB (Aspen – Trail)](https://www.one45.med.ubc.ca/admin/pages/serveObject.php?lo_id=23639&token=a0fab43a2ea81afe8f34085b586fe47512c7d935) |  _4 weeks_ |  _4 weeks_  
[Obs/ Gyne](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1Eiczo0eyocRVLxfoiy_mxInN5Z1n5HaYuFcotq7HNxI)[ (Nelson)](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1Eiczo0eyocRVLxfoiy_mxInN5Z1n5HaYuFcotq7HNxI) |  N/A |  2 weeks  
[Obs (](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1uborx5GynMbfJUARZxc705ytaeTUsw4VQKNLsjTGuTs)[High Volume](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1uborx5GynMbfJUARZxc705ytaeTUsw4VQKNLsjTGuTs)[) (](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1uborx5GynMbfJUARZxc705ytaeTUsw4VQKNLsjTGuTs)[OOR](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1uborx5GynMbfJUARZxc705ytaeTUsw4VQKNLsjTGuTs)[)](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1uborx5GynMbfJUARZxc705ytaeTUsw4VQKNLsjTGuTs) |  _2 weeks_ |  _2 weeks_  
[Peds ICN](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GInuhrlBS_NnKQ-0tOgVBn1Vd1daWrwoT1BGupuiJkc/edit?usp=sharing)[  (BCCH)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GInuhrlBS_NnKQ-0tOgVBn1Vd1daWrwoT1BGupuiJkc/edit?usp=sharing)  Peds ER (BCCH) |  _2 weeks_ _2 weeks_ |  _2 weeks_ _2 weeks_  
[Pediatrics (Trail/Nelson)](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1IXTA4uPye6ioAEDy9jmdwnG6s26cgZzKafeiM_-XfjM) |  _*4 weeks_ |  _*4 weeks_  
[Pain Management (Nelson)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Xhg4-npaMcRGNDdD91kI9zVTTeieyX3zambInFR7GQg/edit?usp=sharing) |  _2 weeks_ |  _2 weeks_  
[Mental Health](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14Y8jOhhYdEWIURHpj-99D7iPsQUS3BnRT2eLruvLWzc/pub)[ (Trail)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14Y8jOhhYdEWIURHpj-99D7iPsQUS3BnRT2eLruvLWzc/pub) |  _4 weeks_ |  _4 weeks_  
FP Oncology (Nelson/Trail) |  _2 weeks_ |  _2 weeks_  
[Rural Remote](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12VNoeDGEF0T542VMOmNXykWViFc-b0nwOT29kJ1itok/pub)[ (Grand Forks)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12VNoeDGEF0T542VMOmNXykWViFc-b0nwOT29kJ1itok/pub) [Rural Remote](https://drive.google.com/open?id=12CbC3KCl0sk-12khw_ckwe5e0uQF6ajQpVgv5v7tXMQ)[ (Nakusp)](https://drive.google.com/open?id=12CbC3KCl0sk-12khw_ckwe5e0uQF6ajQpVgv5v7tXMQ) |  _8 weeks_ |  _8 weeks_  
[First Nations ](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZUXOx8bCF2ItiBSrTVBiKNu-9S6732cJwoA0MSMZKVM/edit?usp=sharing) |  _1  week, 1 month, or 2 months_ |  _1  week, 1 month, or 2 months_  
*Procedures Course (yearly for R2s) |  _1 week_ |  _1 week_  
*Academic Week (2 per year) (KB) |  _4 weeks_ |  _4 weeks_  
*Exam Prep |  _1 week_ |  _1 week_  
*Practice Management (KB) |  _1 week_ |  _1 week_  
Elective (4 wks can be out of province) |  _17 weeks_ |  _17 weeks_  
Total Weeks |  104 |  104  
  |    |     
Half day back home clinic (consistent day if possible) |  _1 day every 2 weeks_ |  _1 day every 2 weeks_  
*Academic Day (Site varies) |  _Full day once a month_ |  _Full day once a month_  
*Research and Scholarship |  6 Half day sessions in R1 |  6 Half day sessions in R1  
[Long Term Care](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1z-w8FtuBS1Z8J-Dg7RvSh0ZQ6EPXmzT2zL2wpg8M3ZM) |  _To round on 2-4 patients once 2-4 weeks. To be part of inpatient rounds.  _ |  _To round on 2-4 patients once 2-4 weeks. To be part of inpatient rounds.  _  
On Call (1 in 4 while in KB) |   _In hospital 18:00-23:00_ |   _  In hospital 18:00-23:00_  
On Call/ER |  _All residents will be doing ER shifts in their home community and hospital call at KBRH (Trail)._  
  
  * Each rotation, longitudinal element and on call is described in more detail in the orientation document
  * OOR=Out of Region
  * *Academic/Non-Clinical Content

**Academic Days and Research**

Residents attend mandatory academic activities – usually 1 full day per month.
This includes academic teaching which is a mix of clinical case discussions
and core topics. Residents are also expected to do presentations. Throughout
the program, we stress "Evidence-Based Medicine" in both academic and clinical
areas.

In the first year, residents will be expected to complete a quality
improvement project. Throughout the two years, residents must complete a
scholar project and present their work at Scholarship Day.



**International Electives**

Residents can do one month of interprovincial or international electives
during their training.



**Further Training**

Third year training positions are available in the area of Emergency Medicine,
Care of The Elderly, Anesthesia, Palliative Medicine, Sports and Exercise
Medicine, Clinician Scholars program and a wide range of other category 2
Enhanced Skills programs.



* * *

# Training Sites

The Kootenay Boundary area has a total population of approximately 80,000 and
is located about 650 kms east of Vancouver and 650 Km west of Calgary in the
West Kootenay Boundary Region of South Eastern B.C. It is nestled between the
Selkirk and Monashee mountain ranges and is close to numerous rivers and
lakes.

The very scenic West Kootenay is renowned for being an outstanding outdoor
recreational area and is a destination site for all types of skiing with two
well- known Ski Resorts (Red Mountain and Whitewater), extensive cross country
ski trails and it is a mountain biking mecca. Road cycling, kayaking, fishing
and a water sports are also major recreational sporting activities as is
backcountry hiking –e.g. The Seven Summits Hike is listed as one of the top
ten things to do in BC. This vacation paradise is appreciated for a multitude
of other recreational activities such as paddling, fishing, rafting, hockey,
softball, hiking, golfing, or simply relaxing at the lake or soaking in
natural hot springs and attending many popular music festivals.



**Resources**

The Family Practice Residency Program is supported by all the of The Kootenay
Boundary, 4 hospitals, one being a regional referral hospital, three community
hospitals, and three community health care centers with ED facilities. There
are several extended care and long term care facilities.

Primary care is delivered in Family Practice Clinics, Primary OB Clinics and
there are Mental Health and Addictions Clinics and a variety of Chronic
Disease Management Clinics. The Site and program are supported and endorsed by
the local Divisions of Family Practice.



**Kootenay Boundary Regional Hospital** (KBRH - Greater Trail Area –
population 19,000)

  * 75 acute care beds and the regional referral hospital with 25,000 inpatient visits per year
  * Six bed ICU/CCU
  * 50 medical/surgical beds and 5 active ORs
  * 12-bed Psychiatric Unit, 4 Pediatric, and 3 Birthing rooms with 4- bed special care nursery, regional 6-bed Renal Dialysis Unit



**Kootenay Lake General Hospital** (KLH – Nelson – population 26,000)

  * 36 acute care beds with 1700 inpatient visits per
  * Maternity Unit with three delivery suits and birthing tub, and 24/7 obstetrical and anesthesia consultation support with more than 320 births a year.
  * Emergency Department with two resuscitation bays, four fast-track chairs, eight assessment beds, one seclusion room, one reverse isolation room, one ENT room, and one gyne room with 11,000 visits per year



**Boundary & District Hospital** (BDH – Grand Forks – population 8,791)

  * 12 acute care beds with 600 in patient visits per year
  * A busy emergency department with 8,500 visits per year
  * A community hospital staffed by family physicians with advanced skill



**Arrows Lake Hospital** (ALH – Nakusp – population 4,866)

  * Six acute care beds with 240 in patient visits per year
  * An emergency department located in an isolated rural area that provides urgent care and often stabilization for transfer of critically ill patients with 2500 visits per year



**Castlegar Community Health Center** (Castlegar – population 13,725)

  * A busy emergency department with over 11,000 visits per year
  * Services provided by family physicians with advanced skills

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26828?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26828