#  University of Alberta - Pediatrics - Edmonton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 10

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Jessica Foulds  

Address Department of Pediatrics  
General Pediatric Residency Training Program  
11405 - 87 Avenue Edmonton Clinic Health Academy  
Edmonton , Alberta, T6G 2J3  

Work  (780) 248-5510

Websites of Interest [ General Pediatrics Residency Program
](https://www.ualberta.ca/pediatrics/pediatric-education-
programs/postgraduate-medical-education/general-pediatrics-residency-
program.html)  
[ Department of Pediatrics ](https://www.ualberta.ca/pediatrics/index.html)  
[ Stollery Children's Hospital Foundation ](http://www.stollerykids.com/)  
[ City of Edmonton ](http://edmonton.ca/)  
[ University of Alberta ](http://www.ualberta.ca/)  
[ Alberta Health Services ](https://www.albertahealthservices.ca/)  
[ Training Researchers in Pediatrics - TRIP ](https://www.wchri.org/members-
and-trainees/strategic-opportunities/training-researchers-in-pediatrics-trip/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Jessica Foulds

Title: Program Director

Email: jwylie@ualberta.ca

Phone: 780-248-5538

  

Name: Dr. Anna Serebrin

Title: Assistant Program Director

Email: serebrin@ualberta.ca

Phone: 780-248-5538

780-248-5544

  

Name: Dr. Troy Turner

Title: Assistant Program Director

Email: twturner@ualberta.ca

  

Name: Cassie Rivait

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: genpeds@ualberta.ca

Phone: 780-248-5538

780-248-5544

  

Name: Jodi Gartner

Title: Program Coordinator

Email: genpeds@ualberta.ca

Phone: 780-248-5544

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Welcome!  **

Thanks for your interest in our pediatric training program here at the
University of Alberta. We are a collaborative and tight-knit community
striving for excellence in clinical care, education, advocacy, research, and
setting learners up for success in their future careers. Our program
encourages and embraces a growth mindset, and is always looking to improve the
learning journey and care provision. We are excited to learn more about you,
and your interest in pediatrics. Please let us know if you have additional
questions after reviewing our program description and accompanying links here,
including our program website.

The University of Alberta recognizes the importance of diversity, equity,
inclusivity, decolonization, and indigenization (EDIDI), particularly in
medical education, clinical practice, and delivery of care to patients. The
pursuit of diversity and equitable opportunities are core values guiding us in
our selection practices, which will result in safe and supportive environments
and improved outcomes for learners, clinicians, and the communities we strive
to serve.

The University encourages applications from underrepresented groups, including
but not limited to Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized
persons, women, persons of a minority gender identity or sexual orientation,
and individuals who would contribute to the diversity of the medical
community. The CaRMS self-identification questionnaire (CSIQ) is an optional
form that candidates can fill out. Our program recognizes the importance of
EDIDI and anti-racism in residency selection, but is currently not using the
CSIQ as part of our application process. We are actively using other methods
to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable opportunities for all applicants.



**CaRMS Townhall Information Session:**  If you would like more information
about our program or would like to interact with our program leadership and
residents please join us for one of our sessions at 6pm MST. Event details can
be found on [Canprepp.ca](https://canprepp.ca/#jet-tabs-control-1531). Our
information sessions are being held:

  * Tuesday, October 15, 2024
  * Tuesday, November 12, 2024



CASPER Requirement

All applicants to our residency program at the University of Alberta are
required to complete the CASPER (Computer-Based Assessment for Sampling
Personal Characteristics) test, to assist with our selection process.
Successful completion of CASPER is mandatory in order to maintain admission
eligibility. CASPER is an open-response, situational judgment test that
evaluates aspects of applicants’ social intelligence and professionalism such
as ethics, empathy, problem-solving and collaboration. For more information on
the test, go to
[https://takealtus.com/casper/.](https://takealtus.com/casper/) CASPER scores
are only valid for a single admissions cycle and for the test type for which
you have taken the test. For example, if an applicant took the Canadian Post
Graduate Medical Education test for the CaRMS Round 1 match, the same CASPER
score will be considered for the Round 2 match.

Your CASPER assessment result is sent directly to our program/CaRMS from
Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights permission to
share your results with CaRMS.

* * *

# Return of Service

There are no return of service requirements at the University of Alberta.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

N/A

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Please see the Alberta [provincial
criteria.](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/)

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) are required to provide proof of
English language proficiency as determined by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) who completed their medical education in
Quebec or at the University of Ottawa (French Stream) are required to provide
proof of English language proficiency as determined by the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

CMGs who completed their medical education at the University of Ottawa must
indicate on their application which stream they completed (either French or
English).

_For more information on the CPSA English language requirements, please visit
the  [CPSA website](https://cpsa.ca/physicians/registration/english-language-
proficiency/)._

Examinations

Required

Casper

Language of examination:      English

* Score

Your [Casper assessment](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115005040926-What-is-the-CASPer-test-) result is sent directly to
CaRMS from Acuity Insights. Please ensure that you give Acuity Insights
permission to share your results with CaRMS.

Applicants who take the test in the first iteration of the current match are
not eligible to rewrite the test in second iteration. The Casper assessment is
only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the Casper assessment visit
[www.takeCASPer.com](http://www.takecasper.com/).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. Please do not send more than three
letters. These letters should be written by a faculty member who supervised
the student. References from pediatricians are not required. We prefer hearing
from referees who can comment well on your knowledge, skills and experiences
that lend themselves well to a career in pediatrics. NO late references will
be accepted. No references from peers or patients / patient families will be
accepted.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

Your letter should outline your reasons for choosing Pediatrics specifically
at the University of Alberta. Your letter should give the review committee
better insight into who you are, and your genuine interest, commitment and
suitability to pediatrics. How has your unique story or journey prepared you
to work, learn, and thrive at the University of Alberta, caring for the
patients of northern Alberta and beyond? What doesn’t jump out from your CV or
transcript that you want us to know about you? Please limit your letter to 750
words.

Custom Résumé / CV

Please limit to 3 pages.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applications including supporting documents (i.e. reference letters) submitted
after file review has opened on November 29, 2024 will not be accepted.

The files are reviewed by a minimum of two members of the selection committee.
Invitations for an interview are made based on this review.

  
  

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025
  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held virtually in the
mornings of January 20-23, 2025 inclusive. The full interview experience will
run until noon MST, to allow for virtual tours, and interaction with our
residents and faculty.  
  
For those applicants invited to interview, email invitations will be sent no
later than January 6th at 10 Eastern Standard Time, and will include
instructions on accessing an online self-scheduling tool for the 2025 General
Pediatrics CaRMS R-1 match, aligned with our Canadian Pediatric Program
Directors Group common offer date/time.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: **Interview Day:** Interviews will be
held in a virtual multiple mini interview format (MMI). These stations will
evaluate the candidate's attributes, both cognitive and noncognitive, which
are felt to be important to the Pediatrics Program at the University of
Alberta. The interviews themselves will take place in the morning of the
interview dates provided. Your time commitment for the whole process will be
approximately 4 hours; this includes virtual tours, a meet and greet with
faculty and residents, and an opportunity to ask any questions you may have
about our Program with the Program Directors.  
  
****Social Events:** Our resident group will host two virtual social events
during our interview week. Details will be included with the interview
invitations. Social events are not mandatory and may not occur on each
interview day. Names collected on these virtual events are only included for
scheduling purposes and attendance does not impact a candidate's final
ranking.**  
  
All aspects (including but not limited to inappropriate
behaviour/interactions) of the interview process will be taken into
consideration when determining the final rank list.  
  
  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The criteria that our selection committee uses for choosing candidates
include:

  * Academic record during the medical undergraduate program, with particular emphasis on the proficiency achieved in pediatrics
  * Depth of reflection and interest in pediatrics as a future career, as demonstrated in the personal letter
  * Extracurricular commitments/activities during medical school
  * Research/scholarly activities (clinical or basic) done during Medical School. Other research (Masters or PhD) will be noted
  * Reference letters
  * An interview score demonstrating the individual's communication and interpersonal skills, level of maturity, empathy, and ability to work in a team environment which helps determine their appropriateness for training in the pediatric program.

## Program goals

Our mission & vision align the Faculty of Medicine & Dentistry at the
University of Alberta:

**Our mission** : To serve the public with social accountability through
partnerships, leadership, and innovation in education, research and health
care

**Our vision** : Health and wellness of all through excellence in education,
discovery and clinical care

Our aim in the Department of Pediatrics is to train pediatricians who provide
excellence in care for infants, children, youth and families by:

  * Providing comprehensive health care
  * Advocating for vulnerable populations
  * Educating health professionals for today and the future
  * Advancing knowledge through innovative research
  * Promoting quality and patient safety
  * Developing leaders in child health 

## Selection process goals

**Successful applicants will have an application that demonstrates their
desire to train in the discipline of pediatrics and to serve the pediatric
population and their families. Successful applicants will demonstrate their
communication and interpersonal skills, level of maturity, feedback
receptivity, empathy and sensitivity, and ability to work in a team
environment.**

#### Selection processes aim to align with core values of the Faculty of
Medicine & Dentistry, identifying individuals who display interest and
aptitude in:

#### _W_ ell-being: Committing to caring for the physical and mental health of
each other and the communities we serve.

#### _E_ xcellence: Striving for results in research, education & clinical
care for the greatest impact.

#### _Pro_ fessionalism: Approaching all aspects of research, education &
clinical care with integrity, respect and social accountability.

#### _C_ uriosity and Creativity: Encouraging a culture of discovery and
innovation.

#### _E_ ngagement for Collaboration: Seeking and integrating meaningful input
from each other and our partners in communities.

#### ****_E_ quity, _D_ iversity and Inclusion: Investing in an inclusive
environment that recognizes and respects the dignity and humanity of
individuals and communities.****

## File review process

Review team composition : Review team composition: Consists of eight (8)
faculty: the Program Director, the Assistant Program Directors and six (6)
other faculty reviewers. Every file has at least two reviewers.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 51 - 75 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  current CVs   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Electives at our site, or in pediatrics, are not mandatory.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Outcomes captured on MSPRs and transcripts will be reviewed. Casper results will be reviewed. Language eligibility will be reviewed for applicants to whom this applies.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Extra-curricular commitments during Medical school.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Demonstrated leadership skills during medical school.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Describing overall performance in medical school.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Previous experiences, depth of reflections and growth mindset.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Positive reference letters completed by faculty, not peers.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research activities (clinical or basic) done during Medical School. Other research will be noted   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Transcripts are reviewed   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: Electives at our site are not mandatory. We appreciate
a diversity of experiences and that access to electives may not be equitable.
We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives, nor in pediatrics.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to demonstrate collegiality in a multidisciplinary team   
Collegiality |  Demonstration of collegiality through interview stations   
Communication skills |  Effective communication is an essential component in all the stations   
Health advocacy |  Recognition and demonstration of health advocacy is assessed during an interactive station   
Interest in the discipline |  Assessed during the interactive stations.   
Interest in the program |  Assessed during the interactive stations.   
Leadership skills |  Ability to demonstrate leadership skills through a scenario   
Professionalism |  Ability to recognize professional boundaries and the obligation to the profession assessed through scenarios.   
Scholarly activities |  We currently do not evaluate this during our interview component   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

We at the University of Alberta respectfully acknowledge that we are situated
on Treaty 6 territory, a traditional gathering place for diverse Indigenous
peoples including the Cree, Blackfoot, Métis, Nakota Sioux, Iroquois, Dene,
Ojibway/ Saulteaux/Anishinaabe, Inuit, and many others. Learning and
unlearning are important to us here.

We have roughly 48 general pediatric residents and 230 Faculty/clinical
teachers. This may seem like a large number of teaching staff, but reflects
our broad community of educators from Red Deer to Yellowknife. Our residents
get to know these pediatricians and faculty well. The geographic catchment
that our center serves is the largest in North America, ensuring varied
clinical exposure.

Clinical opportunities include day trips and multi-day trips to communities
anywhere from 45 minutes to 7 hours outside of Edmonton. Further optional
experiences include Yellowknife, and more remote fly-in communities. Cultural
sensitivity and cultural safety are important components of pediatrics here!
We are particularly proud to offer clinical opportunities in Maskwacis,
initially a pediatric outreach clinic started by a residency advocacy group,
and is now a full time general pediatric clinic serving all four Cree nations
in its local area.

Community-based rotations in each year of training allow for exposure and
graded responsibilities, with second year onward having rural/regional
opportunities. From Core of Discipline stage of training, residents
participate in a Continuity Clinic at various community sites located in and
around Edmonton. This enhances learners' experiences in consultative
ambulatory pediatric clinics and enhances longitudinal care-provision
proficiency.

Our program has a Night Float system that concentrates your call, and serves
to minimize time away from other rotations, while facilitating fatigue risk
management.

Electives may be taken locally, provincially, nationally, or internationally.
A maximum of 4 weeks away, per year is generally allowed during the first
three years of training. Further time away may be taken during fourth year as
negotiated with the program director and training committee based on
transition to practice goals.



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Our residency program consists of 4 years of general pediatric training, with
an opportunity for application to subspecialty, or other career directed
activities after completion of their “Transition to Practice” stage of
training. Residents are regularly mentored as to their experience and
direction for their training.

 Each year consists of 13 four-week blocks. Four weeks of vacation are
allocated per year. Experiences are mapped based on stage of training. Please
refer to our website at the [Department of Pediatrics at the University of
Alberta](https://www.ualberta.ca/pediatrics/index.html) for further schedule
details. We are a dynamic training program, focused on continuous quality
improvement.

 Resident Academic Half Day occurs weekly and is designed based on adult
learning principles and active learning strategies that include small group,
flipped classroom, didactic, procedural skills and simulations. Sessions are
based on the Royal College objectives and the CanMEDS roles. Opportunities
exist for residents to take formal courses on medical education and improve
teaching skills. Our postgraduate medical education office has developed a
Resident as Teacher online course, as well as a workshop. There are many
medical educators keen to mentor residents. All subspecialties ensure teaching
is provided in both basic sciences and the clinical aspects of the
subspecialty.

**** **** Departmental Pediatric Grand Rounds occur weekly and residents will
present twice during their training (while in Foundations and Core of
Discipline). Admission Rounds provide an opportunity for teaching learners on
the Clinical Teaching Unit and residents get to facilitate these sessions
several times during their Core of Discipline stage of training.

**** **** Our Residents receive funding support to complete and maintain PALS
(Pediatric Advanced Life Support), NRP (Neonatal Resuscitation) and Acute Care
Of the at-Risk Newborn certification(ACoRN).

**Research/Scholarly Project**

It is assumed that residents have no formal research background upon starting
the program. Residents will have the opportunity to review an online Research
Methodology course when it works best for them in their academic schedule.
First year residents are expected to identify a research question, find a
mentor and start writing a protocol. Many faculty have projects on the go and
are keen to have residents on board; our resident research supervisor
facilitates a “speed dating” experience for you to get to hear about some of
these projects. Your program directors can also help connect you  with someone
with similar interests if you have some of your own ideas/interests (medical
education/QI/advocacy).  Residents are expected to submit a grant proposal by
the end of first year so that they can carry out their research/scholarly
project in second year. In third year, residents present their project at the
Department of Pediatrics research day and prepare their project for
publication. Residents may request 2-4 weeks in each of PGY 2, 3, and 4 to
complete their research. It is expected that research time is planned, as it
requires approval and the time is accountable. Resident’s are supported in
establishing a strong basic grounding in ethics, clinical or basic sciences
research.

We are also pleased to offer a research intensive mentorship program,
[Training Researchers in Pediatrics (TRIP)](https://www.wchri.org/members-and-
trainees/strategic-opportunities/training-researchers-in-pediatrics-trip/).
This program is supported through the Women and Children's Health Research
Institute and Department of Pediatrics for trainees either with advanced
research training or demonstrated aptitudes within their residency training,
and is designed to support future clinician scientists and advanced research
portfolios. This is available to all trainees for additional mentorship.

The [Clinician Investigator
Program](https://www.ualberta.ca/medicine/programs/postgraduate-medical-
education/residents/clinician-investigator-program/index.html) is available
for those interested in obtaining a MSc or PhD in medical sciences and is
applied for once you are already underway in your residency training. Funds
for research are available through the endowment of the Alberta Heritage
Foundation for Medical Research and other granting agencies. Various awards
for research are given on an annual basis.

  




* * *

# Training Sites

The Stollery Children's Hospital is a full service pediatric hospital located
within the University of Alberta Hospital's Walter Mackenzie Centre, with
satellite facilities at the Royal Alexandra Hospital, Grey Nuns Hospital,
Misericordia Hospital and Glenrose Rehabilitation Hospital. In addition, our
position within the larger University Hospital, and University of Alberta,
provides for additional learning and research opportunities which are often
more difficult to access within a traditional children's hospital.All
pediatric disciplines are well represented. In addition, our position within
the larger University Hospital, and University of Alberta, provides for
additional learning and research opportunities which are often more difficult
to access within a traditional children's hospital.

Our referral base of approximately 1.7 million includes Northern Alberta (Red
Deer and north), Northeastern B.C and the Western Arctic. Rural/Regional
training sites include Maskwacis, Red Deer, Yellowknife, High Level, Cold Lake
and Slave Lake.

During the residency, trainees will have the opportunity to experience
inpatient and ambulatory care in the teaching hospitals, as well as train in
community-based practices within and outside Edmonton. With a broad base upon
which to draw, our residents achieve a high level of consulting ability, which
will equip them for pediatric practice in any setting as well as provide a
sound basis for subspecialty training if desired. Our teaching staff is
recognized for its excellence and dedication.

Electronic medical resources: computer terminals are available on all of the
patient care units. There are several terminals located in the resident lounge
and study area. There is a medical school library within the University
hospital building complex, with an extensive online collection. Canadian
Pediatric Society and American Academy of Pediatric memberships are also
covered for residents which provide excellent additional clinical resources.

  
  

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26536?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26536