#  University of Manitoba - Family Medicine - Rural Brandon  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on November 12, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Leah Peters  

Address Family Medicine  
University of Manitoba  
P228-770 Bannatyne Avenue  
Winnipeg , Manitoba, R3E 0W3  

Websites of Interest [ About Our Program:
](http://umanitoba.ca/healthsciences/medicine/units/family_medicine/)  
[ Provincial Criteria for Manitoba ](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-
residency-match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Tamara Buchel

Title: Postgraduate Program Director

  

Name: Shannon Rankin

Title: Postgraduate Program Coordinator

Email: shannon.rankin@umanitoba.ca

  

Name: Dr. Joanne Maier

Title: Site Education Director/Site Medical Lead

  

* * *

# Important Information

The University of Manitoba campuses are located on original lands of
Anishinaabeg, Cree, Oji-Cree, Dakota, and Dene peoples, and on the homeland of
the Métis Nation. The Department of Family Medicine additionally participates
in clinical programs in Inuit communities. We respect the Treaties and
Agreements that were made on these territories, we acknowledge the harms and
mistakes of the past, and we dedicate ourselves to move forward in partnership
with Indigenous communities in a spirit of reconciliation and collaboration.



**ZOOM INFORMATION SESSIONS:**



CaRMS General Overview session:  Thursday, November 14 from 7:00-8:30pm CST
via Zoom.

**Main Program Overview Zoom Link:**

<https://umanitoba.zoom.us/j/65400352768?pwd=F3Mg29YkJ3dbJRr64a4c0nLIYZNPKm.1>



CaRMS Information Deeper Dive – Bilingual & Rural Programs: Tuesday, November
26 from 7:00-8:30pm CST via Zoom

**Rural and Bilingual Deep Dive Zoom Session:**

<https://umanitoba.zoom.us/meeting/register/u5AtdeiorDoiG9wr0ShLbzIQlXGdG80srGdS>



CaRMS Information - Resident Sessions (hosted by our Lead Residents):
7:00-8:00pm CST via Zoom

  * Wednesday, December 4
  * <https://umanitoba.zoom.us/meeting/register/u5wqceitqj8jGdY0qYbQyI6rwtQmBf4mDrUG>
  *   * Wednesday, December 11
  * <https://umanitoba.zoom.us/meeting/register/u5wrdO6pqDsiHtJQsk0cYSRps04Ei3XfQoS1>



**MANDATORY ORIENTATION SESSIONS:**

The mandatory full day **Postgraduate Medical Education Orientation**  for all
residents will be held on Thursday, June 26, 2025

The mandatory full day **Family Medicine Residency Orientation  **will be held
on Friday, June 27, 2025



**Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS)**

Prior to the commencement of training, matched applicants must provide proof
of ACLS certification that is current as of July 1, 2024. The ACLS Provider
course must be certified by the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada or the
American Heart Association. ACLS training that is not certified by one of
these two organizations and/or is completed entirely through an online course
will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for all costs associated with
obtaining ACLS certification. We provide a re-certification course in your
second year of residency prior to graduation.



**Family Medicine Professional Choices (FMProC)**

The Family Medicine Professional Choices (FMProC) testing is mandatory for all
applicants. It is a situational judgement test designed to evaluate your
professional reasoning, communication skills and aptitude for responding
effectively to diverse clinical situations. It primarily consists of two types
of questions: ranking and rating scenarios.

FMProC registration for the first round of CaRMS 2025 will be open on
September 11, 2024. More details: <https://fmproc.com/>

Situational judgement tests are designed to assess applicant’s judgement
regarding situations encountered in the workplace or during training.
Applicants are presented with a set of hypothetical based scenarios and asked
to make judgements about possible responses. Applicants responses are
evaluated against a pre-determined scoring key to provide a picture of their
situational judgement in that particular context.

The development and modification of the scenarios in FMProC involved input
from several leaders with different perspectives, roles and experiences. This
included family physicians, educators, family medicine residents and medical
students, Indigenous health, rural and remote family medicine, 2SLGBTQ+, anti-
racism, international medical graduates and more. This specifically included
groups under-represented in medicine to ensure, as much as possible, that no
group is disadvantaged by the test format or content.

**Resident Home Location and Travel Requirements**

As a resident in the Brandon stream, you will be expected to maintain a
residence in the Brandon area.

**Vacation Allowance**

Vacation in PGY1 can be taken in the following ways:

  * Two weeks in each of two blocks in conjunction with an approved elective or Family Medicine Block Time in the remaining two weeks of the same blocks
  * Vacation in 1 week blocks can be taken during Family Medicine Block Time
  * One 4 week vacation block

_*Vacation is not allowed in Block 1 in PGY1.  _

Though the program tries to accommodate residents’ specific vacation period
requests, constraints of scheduling often requires flexibility and not all
requests will be approved.

* * *

# Return of Service

All IMGs will be required to sign a return of service contract with Manitoba
Health, in the specialty (including Family Medicine) in which they have
completed residency training. The ROS commitment is commensurate with the
length of the training program. All IMGs entering a training program already
holding a return of service obligation must disclose this obligation at the
time of application. IMGs who have an undischarged return of service
obligation may not be eligible to begin training in a position funded by
Manitoba Health. Such individuals may wish to contact Shared Health at [pmao-
residents@sharedhealthmb.ca](mailto:pmao-residents@sharedhealthmb.ca) for more
information.  
---  
  
* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

**You are required to fulfill ALL of the most current Provincial Criteria for
International Medical Graduates for Manitoba.**

The criteria can be found at:  <https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba/>





Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Examinations

Required

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

All residents will be required to disclose their MCCQE1 examination results
whenever available. The purpose of this disclosure is to allow for resources
to be provided to the few residents who would benefit from extra support early
in their residency in an effort to maximize their success.



NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

FMProC

* Score

Your FMProC assessment result is sent directly to CaRMS. The FMProC assessment
is only valid for one admissions cycle. If you have taken the assessment in
previous years, you are expected to re-take it.

To register for the FMProC assessment visit
[www.fmproc.com](http://www.fmproc.com/).

Optional - will be reviewed

MCCQE Part II

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part II - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part II - Supplemental Information Report

Reference documents

Required

Family Medicine structured reference letter  Number requested: 3

Three (3) Family Medicine Structured Reference Letters are required. Please
select supervisors, preceptors or other individuals who have had ample
opportunity to assess you as a candidate for Family Medicine. Ideally one of
your letters should be from a family physician but this is not mandatory.

All three (3) Family Medicine Structured Reference Letters must be current and
dated on or after January 1, 2024. Undated reference letters will not be
accepted.  Do not arrange for more than three (3) Family Medicine Structured
Reference Letters as additional letters will not be reviewed.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

A personal letter is required. We are looking for mature, enthusiastic
physicians who bring with them a broad range of life experiences, are
committed to providing excellent patient care and can embrace the depth and
breadth of experiences our program offers.

In 500 words or less, please address the following areas:  What life
experiences demonstrate your adaptability, team skills, leadership potential,
and sense of compassion?  Why do you feel the University of Manitoba would be
the right choice for you?  In what ways are you connected to Manitoba?

Custom Résumé / CV

Include a current CV in the Custom Resume section.  Please tailor your resume
to provide us with a better understanding of your experiences and commitment
to Family Medicine.

Conditionally required

Proof of registration as a clinical assistant or allied health professional in
Canada

If you are or have been employed in Canada as a Clinical Assistant or as an
Allied Health Professional, you must provide supporting documentation of
registration as a Clinical Assistant or other Allied Health Professional.

Optional - will be reviewed

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Self-identification questionnaire

  * The University of Manitoba, Rady Faculty of Health Sciences promotes and supports a community that embraces equity, diversity and inclusion, provides for equality of opportunity and recognizes the dignity of all people. These are key values to create an inclusive community for all. The University encourages applications from Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women, persons of a minority sexual orientation and/or gender identity, and all candidates who would contribute to the diversity of our community.
  * We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self-Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete confidentiality. We are in the data collection phase currently.  Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self-identification questionnaire, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so, the information received would only be used for program selection improvement in future years. It will not be used for selection purposes this year. Any self-identification questionnaires received will NOT be reviewed as part of our file review process or used as an aid for file reviewers for the 2024 match.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applicants must apply to, and rank each of the University of Manitoba Family
Medicine programs individually. There is one central review process.

The same personal letter should be used for all University of Manitoba Family
Medicine applications.

There will be only one interview irrespective of the number of programs to
which you apply; there may be specific additional questions based on your
program interests.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 21, 2025
  * January 22, 2025
  * January 23, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Tuesday, January 21, 2025  
  
Wednesday, January 22, 2025  
  
Thursday, January 23, 2025  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Applicants who are invited for
interview will participate in one structured interview, regardless of the
number of sites to which you have applied. The structured interview may have
questions specific to the sites to which you have applied.  
  
The interview is conducted as a 3-person panel interview and typically
consists of 1 physician, 1 interprofessional faculty member, and 1 resident.  
  
Candidates will be invited to attend one of the three interview days. The
interview itself lasts 30 to 40 minutes.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The Department of Family Medicine at the University of Manitoba is committed
to a fair, equitable, and transparent selection process.

To address the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences commitment to equity, diversity
and inclusion we take proactive measures including implicit bias training for
all selection committees. We strive for diversity and cultural safety
throughout the process (hiring panels, short-list of candidates, interviews).
We encourage you to self-identify any aspect of diversity in your personal
statement.

In assessing eligible IMG applicants, The Department of Family Medicine will
ordinarily consider applicants who have completed their undergraduate medical
education within the preceding 10 years, unless the applicant has completed a
residency in Family Medicine and/or is actively engaged in generalist
practice. Of all such eligible applicants, approximately one third of all
applicants, and no less than 300, shall be selected for file review based upon
a composite score generated from the following:

\- the z-score of MCCQE Part I

\- the better z-score of NAC or the MCCQE Part II

Of those applicants selected for file review, approximately 100-150 applicants
will be selected for interview including all residents of Manitoba, and all
other IMG applicants based upon a composite score generated from the z-score
of MCCQE Part I plus the better z-score of NAC or the MCCQE Part II and file
review score.

Rank order lists will be created for each stream's IMG positions based on the
following formulaic approach:

\- z-score of MCCQE Part I plus the better z-score of NAC or the MCCQE Part II
(20% weighting)

\- file review score (30% weighting)

\- FMProC score (20%)

\- Interview score (30% weighting).

Preference may be given to residents of Manitoba, or individuals who have
identified a genuine commitment to Manitoba.

Applicants who are invited for interview will participate in one structured
interview, regardless of the number of sites to which you have applied. The
structured interview may have questions specific to the sites to which you
have applied.

## Program goals

The University of Manitoba is committed to the social justice principles of
equity, access and participation and to promoting opportunities for
systemically marginalized groups who have been excluded from full
participation at the University and the larger community including Indigenous,
Black, racially marginalized Peoples, persons with disabilities and those who
identify as 2SLGBTQIA+ (Two Spirit, lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans,
questioning, intersex, asexual and other diverse sexual identities) and women.

A broad knowledge base and clinical skill sets enable family physicians to
work in diverse settings such as patients' homes, outpatient clinics,
emergency departments, labour and delivery suites, hospital wards, and nursing
homes. Family medicine often serves as the main entry point to the health care
system and the hub that provides continuity of care throughout the life cycle.
As such, family medicine is the central medical discipline. The importance of
primary care in quality of health and the value Canadian society places on
family physicians in the delivery of this care are well known.

The goal of our residency program is to train family physicians who are able
to provide comprehensive, high quality, continuous care in urban, rural, or
remote settings.

## Selection process goals

An inclusive, open and diverse community is essential to excellence and
fosters voices that have been ignored or discouraged. To address the Rady
Faculty of Health Sciences commitment to equity, access and participation, and
in recognition of the underrepresentation of members of historically and
currently excluded groups,  our program has taken the following proactive
measures as part of our selection process:

Implicit bias training for all selection committee members, diverse
representation of selection committee members, inclusion of interview
questions targeted to assess applicant commitment to EDIA, offering necessary
accommodations during the interview process, second pass/review of applicants
below interview and rank order list cut off to review for possible bias in
scoring, orientation to all assessors to scoring rubrics, file review
completed by dedicated, trained group.

We strive for diverse perspectives and cultural safety throughout the hiring
process (resident selection committees, short-list of applicants, interviews).
We ask all applicants to include an EDIA statement in their personal letter
with evidence demonstrating their own commitment to EDIA in their work and
training thus far.

## File review process

Review team composition : The file review teams consist of Family Medicine
physicians, current residents and interprofessional faculty.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 601 +  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Comprehensive and well organized document   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Family Medicine or broad range of interests   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  See examinations & additional documents   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Well rounded activities other than academics   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Initiative and able to problem solve   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Evaluate according to the info provided by school   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  500 words or less   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  3 standardized reference letters   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Variety   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evaluate according to info provided by school   
Other file component(s) |  Familiarity with the Canadian Health Care System. Identifies interest in Family Medicine.  
  
We invite candidates who have completed the voluntary CaRMS Self-
Identification questionnaire as part of their application to submit their
responses to our program. This is a voluntary option for anyone who wishes to
confidentially share their responses with us. All information received will be
maintained as part of the application, which is handled with complete
confidentiality. Candidates are not required to submit the CaRMS Self-
identification questionnaire, but for those that do feel comfortable doing so,
the information received would only be used for program selection improvement
in future years. It will not be used for selection purposes this year. Any
self-identification questionnaires received will NOT be reviewed as part of
our file review process or used as an aid for file reviewers for the 2024
match.  
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

An elective in Family Medicine either in Manitoba or elsewhere, completed
before file review, is not required for application to the University of
Manitoba Family Medicine Programs. However, we are looking for a demonstration
of interest in, and commitment to Family Medicine.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Interprofessional collaboration   
Collegiality |  Treats others with respect & knows professional boundaries   
Communication skills |  Ability to listen and communicate in a clear manner   
Health advocacy |  Affirming and sharing the vision and values of health promotion   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrates genuine interest through electives, extra curricular activities, volunteering, etc.   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrates ongoing commitment to Family Medicine   
Leadership skills |  Ability to guide and help others   
Professionalism |  Carry themselves in a professional manner   
Scholarly activities |  Pursuing further education, previous accomplishments   
Other interview component(s) |  Commitment to underserved populations, resilience   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

# Overview of Department

#### <https://umanitoba.ca/medicine/department-family-medicine>

The University of Manitoba is committed to the social justice principles of
equity, access & participation and to promoting opportunities for systemically
marginalized groups who have been excluded from full participation at the
University and the larger community including Indigenous, Black, racially
marginalized Peoples, persons with disabilities and those who identify as
2SLGBTQIA+ (Two Spirit, lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, questioning, intersex,
asexual and other diverse sexual identities) and women.

For more than 40 years, the University of Manitoba’s Department of Family
Medicine has been positively influencing the health of individuals, families
and communities across Manitoba. Through clinical work, teaching and
innovative research, family medicine is making a difference.

We offer residents the chance to learn with interprofessional faculty, such as
dietitians, pharmacists, nurse practitioners and other health care
professionals. This collaborative learning model teaches our students and
residents the basic principles of health care professions, when to use them in
their care of patients and how to make appropriate referrals.

This program, accredited by the College of Family Physicians of Canada,
promotes whole-person medicine through a combination of patient-centred care
and structured seminars. During clerkship, learners are distributed in over 20
communities throughout Manitoba.

Family Medicine is a wide-ranging discipline, with the chance to impact a
diverse spectrum of patients in various communities. Manitoba is one of the
most diverse provinces in the country, providing an excellent opportunity to
work with patients from a variety of backgrounds.

  

## Training Passionate Family Physicians

After completing a four-year undergraduate degree in Medicine, students who
enter the two-year Family Medicine residency choose a learning stream tailored
to their practice interests.

Here is a video with a general overview of our Family Medicine Program at the
University of Manitoba.

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5vieoIArQFM&list=PLCNj2OCRLILF6vOq6gtxYSY3_M-
wuE57r&index=6](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5vieoIArQFM&list=PLCNj2OCRLILF6vOq6gtxYSY3_M-
wuE57r&index=6)

### Streams:

  * Urban
  * Northern Remote
  * Northern Thompson
  * Bilingual
  * Rural - Boundary Trails
  * Rural - Brandon
  * Rural - Interlake Eastern
  * Rural - Neepawa
  * Rural - Parkland
  * Rural - Portage la Prairie
  * Rural - Steinbach
  * Integrated Clinician Scholar (3 year program)

 Each stream provides a broad and balanced experience that prepares well-
rounded family physicians who can practice with confidence in a variety of
settings.

## Enhanced Training

In addition to the postgraduate program, Family Medicine also offers enhanced
skills training which allows Family Medicine doctors to continually shape and
reshape their careers. Enhanced training is available in the following areas:

  * Addictions
  * FM Anesthesia
  * Cancer Care
  * Care of the Elderly
  * Emergency Medicine
  * Obstetrical Surgical Skills
  * Palliative Care
  * Sports & Exercise Medicine

This training requires an additional 6–12 months of study. Residents finishing
their second year and practicing family physicians may apply.

## Inspiring Young Minds - Our Faculty

The Department of Family Medicine has over 500 faculty members who excel at
sharing knowledge, building competencies, and maximizing learning
opportunities for students.

Our faculty are integral participants in all stages of medical education. Some
have major Undergraduate teaching roles, providing comprehensive Family
Medicine and generalist content as well as their unique perspectives on health
care.

## Integrative Medicine in Residency Program Option

The Integrative Medicine in Residency (IMR) program is a two-year program of
study exploring the integration of Complementary and Alternative therapies
with conventional family practice in an evidence-based manner. This program is
being offered in conjunction with the University of Arizona Center for
Integrative Medicine, and is a 200-hour, interactive web-based curriculum that
is completed longitudinally alongside the Family Medicine residency program.
This program option is available to residents in all streams. Visit the
[Integrative Medicine in Residency
Program](http://umanitoba.ca/faculties/health_sciences/medicine/units/family_medicine/postgrad/integrative-
med.html) page for full details.

## Innovative Research

The Department of Family Medicine provides exciting opportunities to perform
research with practical outcomes on the health of Canadians. The department
promotes and supports the development of research skills and provides
workshops to all Family Medicine residents.

# **Courses Offered for Residents in Family Medicine***

**Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS)**

Prior to the commencement of training, matched applicants must provide proof
of ACLS certification that is current as of July 1, 2024. The ACLS Provider
course must be certified by the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada or the
American Heart Association. ACLS training that is not certified by one of
these two organizations and/or is completed entirely through an online course
will not be accepted. Applicants are responsible for all costs associated with
obtaining ACLS certification. We provide a re-certification course in your
second year of residency prior to graduation.

**Advances in Labour and Risk Management (ALARM)**

We mandate ALARM training during the residency and provide reimbursement upon
successful completion.

**Advanced Trauma Life Support (ATLS)**

We mandate ATLS training during the residency and provide reimbursement upon
successful completion for all non-urban residents.

**Indigenous Cultures Awareness Workshop (ICAW)**

We mandate ICAW training during residency.

**Neonatal Resuscitation Program (NRP)**

We mandate NRP during residency and provide reimbursement upon successful
completion.

**Ultrasound Curriculum**

Ultrasound curriculum is mandatory and provided for all residents.

_*subject to change_



# **Scholarly Curriculum***

Scholarly activities in our program include:

\- participation in monthly Journal Clubs

\- presentations at patient case rounds and regular guideline appraisals

\- didactic teaching  

- formal Quality Improvement curriculum

\- Critical Appraisal assignments

\- PEARLS exercises as offered through the College of Family Physicians of
Canada

\- Academic Days throughout the year

\- additional core curriculum as mandated by PGME for all postgraduate program
residents

_* subject to change_

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 2 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

You will live in Brandon and complete the majority of your residency in this
small urban city and surrounding rural communities. Brandon is a small city
where generalists, both family physicians and specialists, provide care in the
community and at the very well-resourced regional referral hospital. You will
become immersed in the community and will practice full-spectrum Family
Medicine with lots of hands-on experience where you, the Family Medicine
resident, are central to the structure.

Your hospital experiences during Family Medicine, Emergency, Psychiatry and
Specialty rotations will take place at the Brandon Regional Health Center
(BRHC) which is the regional referral center for Western Manitoba.

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iC_zicAp51A>

  * This facility services a referral population of approximately 180,000 and has 300+ beds. Inpatient care units include Acute Medicine, Surgery, ICU (medical/surgical), NICU, Pediatrics, Rehabilitation Medicine, Palliative Care, Waiting Placement/Supportive Care, Adult Psychiatry, Geriatric Psychiatry and the off-campus Child and Adolescent Psychiatry.
  * Family physicians, obstetricians and midwives provide care in the single room maternity care unit. There are about 1700 births per year.
  * There are six surgical suites, a minor procedure theatre and a theatre dedicated to obstetrics.
  * BRHC features a full range of diagnostic services including MRI, CT, Ultrasound, Nuclear Medicine, Clinical Neurophysiology and extensive lab services at the Westman Regional Laboratory.
  * BRHC outpatient care includes the emergency department that is staffed by in-house emergency physicians (CCFP and CCFP-EM physicians mainly) and is very busy with over 27,000 visits a year, the Cancer program, Day Surgery, GI Unit, Manitoba Breast Screening program, Renal/Dialysis Unit, Outpatient Care Unit and multiple outpatient care clinics such as Fracture Clinic, Ostomy Care and Stroke Prevention to name a just a few.

There are six Family Medicine Blocks in each year which includes 4-5 blocks
based in Brandon and 1-2 blocks based in a smaller rural community in the
region. During Family Medicine Block Time (FMBT), you are based at a private
clinic. You are paired with a primary preceptor and their busy fee-for-service
practice. The clinics have a mix of family physicians and specialists. The
clinics are part of MyHealth Team including mental health workers, a
dietitian, a pharmacist and psychiatrist. The clinics are fully computerized
and utilize electronic medical records. FMBT will provide residents with a
wide variety of family medicine experiences including office practice, walk-
in/urgent care, inpatient care, low risk obstetrics, newborn care, palliative
care, cancer care, long-term care, minor surgical procedures and emergency
room care. Emergency Medicine and Psychiatry training occurs longitudinally
during FMBT over the two years of residency. Your FMBT blocks in rural
communities will provide acquisition of knowledge, skills, and confidence in
practicing in a rural community where the nearest specialty services are 30-60
minutes away in Brandon.

Focused clinical experiences are available in physiotherapy, addiction
medicine, IV starts, airway management, women’s health, gynecology,
TransHealth, Sioux Valley (indigenous) Teen Clinic, EMS Ride along, and
community medicine. We pride ourselves in our delivery of evidence-based
medicine and our ability to allow you to develop your clinical and procedures
skills essential to functioning as a rural family physician.

There are multiple learners at the Brandon Satellite program including
residents, medical students, MPA, midwifery, OT/PT and pharmacy students and
clinical psychology residents. This enhances the learning environment and
allows the opportunity for teaching.

**INTERNAL MEDICINE/HOSPITAL MEDICINE**

Your Internal Medicine/Hospital Medicine training occurs in two blocks in your
first year. These two blocks will provide a broad range of clinical exposures
with a group of Internal Medicine specialists who practice General Internal
Medicine and who each have their own area of special interest and experience.
This will mainly include office, hospital and emergency consultations.  In
addition, you can spend time with community family physicians who participate
in the hospitalist service. This provides experience looking after both
acutely and chronically ill inpatients often with multiple co-morbidities.  

**OBSTETRICS  AND GYNAECOLOGY**

These two blocks of training will provide experience in both low risk and
high-risk obstetrics (prenatal, antepartum, intrapartum and postpartum care)
at the busy Brandon Single Room Maternal Child Unit (average birth rate of
1700 per year) as well as additional experience in gynecology and gynecologic
procedures such as endometrial biopsy and IUCD insertion. Family Practice
obstetrics and gynecology exposure may also occur longitudinally during Family
Medicine Block Time.

**PEDIATRICS**

One block of pediatrics has residents involved in the care of children in the
office setting, emergency department, delivery room, NICU and pediatric ward.
Residents participate in a range of clinical problems from well child care and
common childhood illness to consultative pediatrics and the care of critically
ill infants. Pediatric training will also be provided horizontally during
Family Medicine Block Time and Emergency Medicine. A horizontal experience
within Child and Adolescent Psychiatry is also provided during Family Medicine
Block Time.

**PEDIATRIC EMERGENCY**

The busy ER department at Children’s Hospital in Winnipeg is the site for one
block of Pediatric Emergency training. Longitudinal pediatric emergency is
also provided during FMBT in both the Brandon and rural FMBT sites.

**EMERGENCY**

Exposure to the busy Emergency Department of a Regional Referral Center will
occur horizontally throughout Family Medicine Block Time. This Emergency
Department sees more than 27,000 visits per year with greater than 51% being
CTAS 1 - 3. The Emergency Department provides acute care to Brandon and the
surrounding area. It is also a regional referral centre to patients that
require consultation with Specialist physicians in the areas of General
Surgery, Orthopedics, Ophthalmology, Neurology, Cardiology, General Internal
Medicine, Obstetrics/Gynecology, Intensive Care and Psychiatry. Preceptors are
Family Physicians that work primarily in the Emergency Room. This is excellent
exposure to a wide variety of critical conditions in patients of all ages.
The rural FMBT rotations also provide excellent emergency training in a
smaller centre with specialist support 30-60 minutes away.

**SURGERY**

A blend of general and orthopedic surgery exposure will ensure your Surgery
block in Brandon is comprehensive. This involves participating in surgical
care in the operating room, emergency department, surgical ward and office.
From initial assessment and being first assistant to inpatient care and
discharge planning, this rotation provides an excellent experience with lots
of one-on-one teaching. In addition, horizontal surgical experience over the
2-year residency will occur throughout Family Medicine Block Time and
Emergency Medicine.  

**ICU / CCU**

This intensive care rotation is based in a nine-bed unit which includes
coronary care, intensive care medicine, and intensive care surgery. Residents
encounter a wide range of clinical experiences within the unit, through
consultations in the emergency department, and time spent in the intensive
care unit. The volume and variety of patients is excellent, including plenty
of procedural practice. Airway management skills will be taught during this
time by the Department of Anesthesia or with focused clinical days with a
rural GP anesthetist.



**PALLIATIVE MEDICINE**

The Palliative Care rotation has been evaluated by residents as one of the
most rewarding and unique to their Family Medicine training. Skills taught by
palliative care family physicians enable residents to gain skills essential to
providing symptom-based care to both patients struggling with chronic illness
and during end-of-life care. This rotation is provided in Winnipeg and
training will also occur longitudinally during Family Medicine Block Time.

**PSYCHIATRY**

This experience will be provided longitudinally during Family Medicine Block
Time. Residents will be trained by Specialty Psychiatrists in their community
practices, at the Child and Adolescent Treatment Center, Center for Adult
Psychiatry and Center for Geriatric Psychiatry. In addition, Emergency
Consultations will be seen while on call with Specialty Psychiatrists.

**BEHAVIOURAL MEDICINE**

An integrated approach to behavioral medicine is utilized during your Family
Medicine experiences. Key areas include mental health concerns (curriculum in
consultation with Department of Psychiatry), helping patients develop coping
skills, knowledge of community resources and communication skills.

RHA social workers, psychologists and spiritual care professionals provide
assistance with patient centered counselling skills as well as knowledge on
and appropriate use of community resources. These professionals, and the
psychiatrists, are also involved in teaching during Academic Days.
Consultations with the Brandon Regional Health Centre Psychiatric Units
provide additional experiences.

**NUTRITION EDUCATION & CARE**

RHA dietitians provide experience in office management of nutritional concerns
that are common to family practice including diabetes, cardiovascular disease,
weight management and other diseases. The program dietitian is involved in
evaluation & teaching.

**HEALTH PROMOTION**

There are many opportunities for enhancing health promotion skills through
education to community groups.

**ACADEMIC CURRICULUM**

There is protected time for provision of the department-wide academic
curriculum and for self-directed learning. The curriculum is delivered by
Family Medicine and Specialist faculty members, fellow residents and
interprofessional colleagues. The use of simulation equipment is used
extensively.  Examination preparation is provided in both years.



* * *

# Training Sites

**Brandon Training Site Video:**

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K1mrAJln46Y&list=PLCNj2OCRLILF6vOq6gtxYSY3_M-
wuE57r&index=3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K1mrAJln46Y&list=PLCNj2OCRLILF6vOq6gtxYSY3_M-
wuE57r&index=3)

The Brandon Family Medicine Stream is a two-year residency where residents
live and train in Brandon. Brandon is a small city with family medicine
preceptors with busy practices, generalist specialist preceptors and a very
well-equipped regional referral health centre. Much of the training is
provided longitudinally over the two years. Emphasis is placed on skill and
knowledge development, generalist education and continuity of care.

  * An active teaching unit, with low preceptor to trainee ratios.
  * Large clinical volumes with an excellent variety of patients.
  * Frequent opportunities to perfect your procedural skills through clinical encounters and procedural simulation.
  * Continuity of care within your preceptor’s practice is an educational priority and is provided during the two years during Family Medicine Block Time and continuity clinics while on specialty rotations.
  * There is an integrated curriculum that provides training in emergency, psychiatry, obstetrics and geriatrics embedded within Family Medicine Block Time.
  * Monthly academic days in small group learning environments with in-unit teaching.
  * Very well-equipped regional referral health centre that services a population of about 180,000
  * Rural rotations in Family Medicine in both years
  * Pediatric Emergency at the busy Winnipeg’s Children’s Hospital and Palliative Medicine rotation at specialized Winnipeg unit
  * Point of Care ultrasound modules incorporated into annual curriculum

Brandon is a welcoming community nestled along the Assiniboine River, rich in
diverse culture and offering a metropolitan lifestyle with the charm of small-
town living. Located in the heart of Southwestern Manitoba, 200 kms west of
Winnipeg.

  * Population over 53,000, average age of 39
  * Affordable housing
  * Extensive retail and service sector, >2000 businesses
  * Lots of recreation facilities and events with over 90 parks, playgrounds and green spaces
  * In-city commute of 12 minutes.
  * Multicultural

* * *

# Additional Information

**TRANSPORTATION**

As you will need to move frequently about the city and province between
training sites, you will need to secure a means of transportation.  You may
find it easiest to maintain a personal vehicle.

**Additional Points to Consider:**

  * Cost of living is one of the most affordable in Canada.
  * Full access to University of Manitoba library and its electronic resources, including UpToDate.
  * Competitive resident salaries with a solid resident contract including a well-supported maternity/paternity leave policy.  [http://www.parim.org](http://www.parim.org/)
  * Membership and registration fees are covered for University of Manitoba, College of Family Physicians and Surgeons of Manitoba, Canadian Medical Protective Association, and the initial membership in the College of Family Physicians of Canada for PGY1 year.
  * Annual two day resident retreat held in a community outside of Winnipeg.
  * All mandatory course fees are reimbursed upon successful completion.  Examples of mandatory courses include:  NRP, ALARM, ATLS, PALS, BLS and ACLS recertification. Mandatory courses vary between programs.
  * Travel costs and accommodation are provided for mandatory offsite rotations.

Brandon, Manitoba is approximately 2.5 hours west of Winnipeg by car. It is
the regional trade, education and medical service centre for some 180,000
residents of southwest Manitoba. This is why over 100 doctors and medical
specialists call Brandon home. Brandon has a stable, strong and diverse
economy with approximately 2000 businesses that are local, national and
international in scope and range from a couple of employees to several
thousand. The agriculture sector, oil industry, retail & service companies
along with a solid manufacturing sector keep our economy healthy. There are
eight Medical Clinics with walk-in service, 12 Dental offices and eight
Optometrist offices within the city. Daily flights from Brandon’s modern and
spacious airport to Calgary, Alberta via WestJet allows direct access to an
international airport; Brandon airport is a 15-minute drive from the centre of
the City and offers free parking. Brandon also offers an [air
shuttle](https://brandonairshuttle.com/) service to Winnipeg International
Airport.

**Housing:**

The housing market has always remained very stable in Brandon; the average
price of a house in 2021 was $303,431 ([Housing
Resources](http://economicdevelopmentbrandon.com/housing-resources)). All the
housing neighborhoods include green space, trees and parks. Brandon Area
Realtors website includes listings for all the real estate agents within the
city: [brandonarearealtors.ca](https://brandonarearealtors.ca/)

The average rent for a two-bedroom apartment in Brandon in 2021 was $971 plus
utilities based on data from Canada Housing and Mortgage Corporation.

There are many options for apartments; fueled by new construction throughout
the city including the conversion of downtown historic buildings into unique
living space such as the Prairie Lofts project. Resources for finding rental
properties in Brandon are available at [Rental
Property](https://ebrandon.ca/browseads.aspx?cat_id=71).

**Recreation & Leisure:**

**Food**

  * Breakfast = Mum’s, Komfort Kitchen (Amazing Sunday Buffet), Lady of the Lake, The Eagles Nest Bar & Grill
  * Lunch = Lady of the Lake
  * Dinner = Brown’s Social House, The Keg
  * Baked Goods = Chez Angela Bakery, Blue Hills Bakery & Deli, Kuiper’s Family Bakery
  * Pub = The Dock on Princess, Little Bones Wings, Double Decker, Joe Beeverz, Tavern United, The Eagles Nest Bar & Grill
  * Craft Beer: Black Wheat Brewing, Section 6 Brewing Co.
  * Indian = Chili Chutney
  * Pakistan = Khan Foods
  * Mexican = Los Brothers Tacos Food Truck, Mariachi Mexican Tacos & Cantina
  * South American = Sabor Latino, Pupuseria La Bendición de Dios
  * Ethiopian = Tana Ethiopian Cuisine
  * Chinese, Vietnamese, Thai = Kim’s Asian Restaurant
  * Japanese = Kim’s Asian Restaurant, Sushi Hut
  * Filipino = Robyn’s Lechon
  * Middle Eastern = Shawarma Queen, Khan Foods, BabaKadir Shawarma Restaurant
  * Pizza = Pizza Express, Marino’s Pizza, Little Italy
  * Ice Cream = Velvet Dip, Tastees Ice Cream & Grill
  * Great local coffee shops: H Coffee for amazing 3rd wave coffee and espresso, Forbidden Flavours & Coffee Culture
  * Annual Food Truck Warz
  * Manitoba Institute of Culinary Arts
    * [Events at MICA | Assiniboine College](https://assiniboine.net/community/news-events/events-mica)
      * International Wine & Food Festival  
      * Passport to Flavour
      * Holiday Buffet
      * Foundation Legacy Gala Dinner

 **Fitness**

  * Brandon University’s Healthy Living Centre offers UofM residents special membership rates
  * Goodlife, YMCA, Anytime fitness offer opportunities for membership in Brandon and Winnipeg
  * Local facilities include Frederickson Performance Centre, Outperform, Peak Performance & Athletics Centre
  * Yoga = Brandon City Yoga, The Zen Zone, Open Hearts Wellness
  * Crossfit = Rocked Community Fitness, Power Play CrossFit
  * Indoor Cycling = Tour Fit Club
  * Hiking at the Brandon Hills just south of the city or at The Discovery Centre
  * Mountain biking at the Brandon Hills just south of the city
  * Skiing and snowboarding = Travel 2 hours north to Aessessipi Ski Resort to ski or snowboard on the best mountains in the province
  * Canoeing and Kayaking = Travel 1 hour north to Riding Mountain National Park
  * Two indoor public swimming pools
  * Outdoor rubber running track at the Sportsplex
  * Walking/biking path that encompasses the entire city
  * Outdoor fitness equipment along the walking/biking paths within the city and at Riverbank Discovery Centre

 **Entertainment**

  * WHL Hockey team – [Brandon Wheat Kings](https://wheatkings.com/)
  * [The Keystone Centre](https://keystonecentre.com/) – over 10 acres of convention, entertainment, agricultural and recreation complex & home ice to the Wheat Kings, all found under one roof
  * [Westman Centennial Auditorium](http://www.wmca.ca/)– including performances such as Winnipeg Ballet, concerts, plays, etc
  * Checkout the latest movies at Landmark Cinemas 9 Brandon
  * 5 golf courses in Brandon and 16 more within a 1 hour drive of Brandon
  * [Riverbank Discovery Centre](https://riverbank.mb.ca/) / [Brandon Tourism](https://brandontourism.com/) located beside the Assiniboine river which runs 17 km throughout the City and home to Festival Park and natural walking trails.
  * [Brandon University Bobcats](https://gobobcats.ca/)– Basketball and Volleyball
  * [Public Library](https://wmrl.ca/locations-hours/brandon-public-library/) & [Art Gallery of Southwestern Manitoba](https://agsm.ca/)\- presents national and international exhibitions and works by regional artists
  * Community theatre groups, recreational sports leagues, hobby groups, supports groups and not for profit’s can be found in the [Community Contact List](http://www.economicdevelopmentbrandon.com/contacts/). Recreational sports groups include baseball, volleyball, basketball, racquetball, golf, tennis, martial arts, boxing, running, biking, extreme frisbee, etc.
  * Bowling, billiards, darts, and arcade games at T-Birds
  * [Brandon University School of Music](https://www.brandonu.ca/music/)

 **Nearby Provincial Parks**

  * Travel 1 hour north to Clear Lake in Riding Mountain National Park

    * Visit the Whitehouse Bakery for the world’s best cinnamon buns
    * Amazing Italian food at TR McKoy’s Italian Restaurant
    * Rent a kayak or canoe for the day
    * Go to the spa at Elkhorn Resort Spa & Conference Centre
    * Get ice cream at The Boardwalk on Clear Lake
    * Enjoy a drink with pizza at the Canoe Taphouse or The Foxtail
    * Stop by Beaver Tails and grab a bite
    * Travel 1 hour south to Turtle Mountain Provincial Park
    * Enjoy fishing, boating and water sports at Rivers Provincial Park, 30 minutes northwest of Brandon
    * 30 minutes east of Brandon will find you at Spruce Woods Provincial Park, featuring Spirit Sands and the Devil’s Punch Bowl – Manitoba’s desert
    * Spend some time at the International Peace Gardens at the Canada/US border
    * Brandon’s online [photo/video library](http://economicdevelopmentbrandon.com/photos-and-videos)
    * Fishing, boating and water sports
    * There are 17 Community Gardens throughout the city

 **For Kids**

  * Brandon has over 30 registered Child Care Facilities as well as licensed & unlicensed private in-home child care, over 90 parks, playgrounds and green spaces, 3 leash free dog parks, 1 outdoor pool, 2 indoor pools, 5 outdoor water/spray parks, outdoor & indoor public skating, tobogganing hills and 44 km’s of walking, biking & hiking trails with outdoor fitness equipment located throughout the city.  [Provincial Online Child Care Information](https://www.gov.mb.ca/education/childcare/)

**Education, Training & Faith:**

  * [Brandon School Division](https://www.bsd.ca/) encompasses 22 schools including elementary, middle years and high schools with a 23rd elementary school currently under construction. The school division offers an Advanced Placement Program as well as French Immersion and a faith-based school.
  * [Christian Heritage School](https://www.chsbrandon.ca/) is an independent Christian school offering classes from Kindergarten to grade eight. The curriculum is consistent with the Department of Education standards.
  * [Brandon University](https://www.brandonu.ca/music/) \- significant reputation in music, general arts and science programs. Undergraduate degrees in Arts, Science, Music, Education, Business Administration, Fine Arts, Nursing, Psychiatric Nursing, and First Nations and Aboriginal Counseling. The University also features graduate degrees in Psychiatric Nursing, Music, Rural Development and Education, as well as pre-professional programs in 19 areas ranging from agriculture to veterinary medicine. Brandon University is also home to the innovative Applied Disaster and Emergency Studies program – the first program of its kind in the country. Average annual enrollment of over 3500 students.
  * [Assiniboine Community College](https://assiniboine.net/) \- has two locations in Brandon and additional campuses in Dauphin and Winnipeg, and offers over 40 unique programs in the fields of agriculture, environment, business, health and human services, food and hospitality, trades and technology with over 500 full-time and part-time employees and an average annual full-time enrollment over 3,600 including apprenticeships at the two Brandon campuses.
  * [The Manitoba Emergency Services College ](https://firecomm.gov.mb.ca/mesc.html)– 37-40 full time enrollment and over 2200 continuing education enrollment each year.
  * There are over 40 [Places of Worship](http://economicdevelopmentbrandon.com/places-of-worship) in many different denominations

**Annual Events include:**

  * Burger Brawl – Local restaurants compete for the best burger over 1 month
  * Food Truck Warz
  * The Pavilions – Annual multicultural festival of food and entertainment
  * Assiniboine Community College Annual Food Events - Harvest on the Hill, Holiday Buffet, Great Grey Owl Restaurant, International Wine & Food Festival
  * Westman Wine Festival
  * Manitoba Summer Fair
  * Fall Fair
  * Royal Manitoba Winter Fair
  * Ag Days
  * Westman Multicultural Festival
  * Canadian National Arabian and Half Arabian Horse Show
  * Cruisin’ the Dub (downtown car show)
  * Brandon Folk Music Festival
  * Brandon Jazz Festival
  * Dakota Nation Winterfest.

For more information on Brandon, visit the following websites.

[Economic Development Brandon](http://www.economicdevelopmentbrandon.com/)

[City of Brandon](https://www.brandon.ca/)  

[Prairie Mountain Health](https://www.prairiemountainhealth.ca/)

[Brandon Tourism](https://brandontourism.com/)  

[Brandon Arts/Culture &
Recreation](http://economicdevelopmentbrandon.com/arts-culture-recreation)

[Tourism Westman](https://www.tourismwestman.ca/)

**Additional Information**

  * Compensation is provided for accommodation and travel for rotations outside of Brandon.
  * Residents have access to an education fund for conferences or educational materials.
  * Full access to the University of Manitoba library and its electronic resources.
  * Residents fall under the PARIM Collective Agreement at [www.parim.org](http://www.parim.org/).
  * Use of Simulation lab at Brandon University for some academic training.



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26419?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26419