#  McMaster University - Plastic Surgery - Hamilton

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 3

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Arianna Dal Cin  

Address Surgery, Division of Plastic Surgery  
504-304 Victoria Ave N  
Hamilton , Ontario, L8L 5G4  

Work  905-526-0811

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Division of Plastic Surgery
](https://surgery.mcmaster.ca/divisions/plastic-surgery)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Jennifer Koch

Title: Program Administrator

Email: plasted@mcmaster.ca

Phone: 905-521-2100 X 73962

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/).  It is important to review the
requirements carefully.

To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit:
<https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/>

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Three letters of reference are required. These should be from consultants, not
residents.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  100

Maximum :  1000

  

A personal letter of application is required, explaining: interest in plastic
surgery, career goals, participation in extracurricular activities

Custom Résumé / CV

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Reference letters from McMaster faculty or from plastic surgeons are not
required for consideration of interview.



Additional training:  
Additional training experiences above and beyond the traditional medical
school curriculum will be considered in a manner that upholds and respects the
principles of fairness, equity, and professionalism in the application,
selection, and matching process. Training experiences that fall outside of the
postgraduate medical education will be evaluated using existing institutional
rubrics specific to each program, and weighted in a manner that encourages
equity among all applicants.



* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 20, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: The interviews will be held virtually on
Monday January 20, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Formal interviews will be granted to
candidates who have been selected by the Residency Education Committee
following the review of the completed candidate applications. The Plastic
Surgery Residency Office will contact candidates who are selected for an
interview. The Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS Online and
will send email invitations via email, therefore please do not contact us. The
interview consists of three 15-minute sessions conducted by both staff
surgeons and residents.  If the candidates are interested, they may
communicate with the residents via e-mail ahead of time.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Candidates will be ranked based on their academic record, e-CaRMS curriculum
vitae, e-CaRMS Application, the strength of their references, and their
research experience.  Three reference letters are required.

## Program goals

The program intends to train a Plastic Surgeon for future unsupervised
practice who is capable of providing for the total care of the patients
referred, in either elective or emergency circumstances. Residents must
demonstrate the requisite knowledge, skills, and attitudes for effective
patient-centered care and service to a diverse population. In all aspects of
specialist practice, the graduate must be able to address issues of gender,
sexual orientation, age, culture, ethnicity and ethics in a professional
manner. Graduates from our program have gone on to rewarding careers in
Academia as well as Community practice, with Fellowship placements in national
and international centres of excellence. Education is the biggest strength of
the McMaster Plastic Surgery training program.  All of the faculty have a deep
commitment toward resident education.  This is borne out by the quality of
surgeons that graduate from our program.  

## Selection process goals

Our process seeks to identify candidates who are well suited to a career in
Plastic Surgery and a good fit for the collaborative culture of our program.
Successful applicants will have an excellent understanding of what Plastic
Surgery offers to them that other specialties do not, and how their personal
strengths align with the attributes required to succeed in Plastic Surgery.
They will demonstrate willingness to engage in the process of continuous
improvement, both in their own development and within the broader health care
system including our learning environment. They will demonstrate the ability
to take full advantage of the learning opportunities that are offered. They
will demonstrate their commitment to collaboration, patient care and a healthy
balance between their professional and personal lives. Their stated career
goals will be supported by the material contained in their application.

## File review process

Review team composition : Staff and senior residents will review the files as
well as take part in the interview process

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  evaluated   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Considered if previously completed   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  not applicable   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  evaluated   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  evaluated   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  evaluated   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  evaluated   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  evaluated   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  evaluated   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  evaluated   
Other file component(s) |  Reference letters from McMaster faculty or from plastic surgeons are not required for consideration of interview.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted
candidates' opportunities to arrange and complete electives and would like to
reassure you that a lack of elective activity this year will not negatively
impact your application to our program

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  evaluated   
Collegiality |  evaluated   
Communication skills |  evaluated   
Health advocacy |  Considered   
Interest in the discipline |  evaluated   
Interest in the program |  evaluated   
Leadership skills |  evaluated   
Professionalism |  evaluated   
Scholarly activities |  evaluated   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The McMaster University Plastic Surgery program, a 5-year program, was
established in 1978 and it serves a population of 13.5 million people, in
southwestern Ontario (2024). This population base and area of coverage allows
the academic program exposure to all facets of plastic surgery care.

McMaster University is globally recognized as a leader and center for
education in Health Research Methodology and our faculty are world renowned
for their expertise in evidence-based surgery. All faculty are vey supportive
of research projects with residents, with a high acceptance rate at national
and international meetings. All avenues of research are covered however, there
is a special interest in health outcomes measures.

Surgical education is provided by rotations and learning at Hamilton Health
Sciences’ four hospital sites, which provide both adult and pediatric care, as
well as St. Joseph’s Hospital which includes an off-site satellite campus.

Our provincial burn program (within HHS) provides burn care to the entire
province. Both major, critical burns as well as outpatient burn care is
provided at this center. Our residents rotate through this program in their
second year of training.

The teaching faculty includes 14 plastic surgeons and 4 burn surgeons.
Delivery of the academic program occurs through experiential, early, hands-on
learning beginning in first year. The curriculum is delivered through a
Surgical Foundation program (PGY1 and 2), and Core program (PGY3,4,5) where
weekly seminars, Grand Rounds and bi-monthly Journal Clubs occur. In addition,
early teaching of microsurgical skills in a live animal model is provided to
PGY3s. Supplementary microsurgical courses are offered as required for later
training years. Regular attendance in the anatomy lab is encouraged and
organized for additional hands-on learning.

Most unique to our surgical program is the opportunity for residents to work
with expert faculty early in training both in the clinic and operating room
settings.

All faculty have a deep commitment toward resident education. This is borne by
the quality of surgeons that graduate from our program who have entered
rewarding careers in academia as well as community practice after fellowship
placements in national and international centers.

Education and evidence based surgical research are our strengths! We are proud
of our academic excellence and embody the values and culture that fosters
physician wellness, equity, diversity and inclusion, safe patient practice and
quality assurance.



* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The residency rotations are designed to meet the new requirements of the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.



**PGY-1 & 2**  
There are two years of Surgical Foundations. All candidates at the completion
of the core program will be eligible to take the Surgical Foundations
Examination, as well as the MCCQE Part II examinations. As such, the rotations
are broad and include rotations in other surgical subspecialties.

PGY-2 rotations include Burns, Dermatology, and Head & Neck as well as
rotations through the Hamilton General Hospital.

**PGY-3**

PGY-3 will include rotations through the Hamilton General Hospital and St.
Joseph's Hospital. During this year, the emphasis will be on exposure to
various types of trauma (maxillofacial and hand trauma, including
reimplantations) and burn management, but residents will be exposed as well to
the spectrum of plastic surgical procedures. This experience will be obtained
at the Hamilton General Hospital. There will also be a rotation through oral
and maxillofacial surgery.

**PGY-4**

PGY-4 will alternate between Hamilton General Hospital, St. Joseph's Hospital
and McMaster University Medical Centre. This year will include further
experience in, microsurgery, reconstruction, burns and trauma. During this
year there will be an opportunity for elective rotations at external centres
in preparation for Fellowship study and for a community experience.  Rotation
through McMaster University Medical Centre will provide experience in
pediatric plastic surgery.

The surgical rotations and training experiences align with the Competencies as
outlined by the Royal College of Canada subspeciality of Plastic Surgery.

This consists of external rotations in aesthetic surgery and surgery in
community centres. An opportunity to attend various courses such as the
craniofacial course, peripheral nerve course, Fresh Cadaver Anatomy Lab and
microvascular training in a live animal laboratory are available. Also, twice
a year, injection clinics covering Botox and filler techniques are offered.  

**PGY-5**

The PGY 5 year is organised to allow consolidation of knowledge and skill as
the resident prepares for the Royal College Examination.  The resident lead is
expected to function at the level of a competent consultant plastic surgeon.
The resident lead can participate in surgery in any of the hospitals in the
city to work with any of the Plastic Surgeons on challenging cases.  The
following rotations occur in the final year:

McMaster University Hospital

St. Joseph's Hospital

Hamilton General Hospital

Aesthetic Surgery (Oakville Trafalgar Memorial Hospital)

**Mandatory Content of Training**

The rotations are designed and organized so as to meet all of the competencies
and training experiences as outlined by the Royal College Standards, last
published in 2020, with supplements in 2024.

**Elective Content of Training**  
Research elective including flap dissection, microsurgery, animal research,
surgical exposure in Fresh Cadaver Laboratory.

External electives are encouraged to national and international academic
centres so as to network and create paths towards sub-speciality fellowships.

**Research**  
All residents are expected to complete two high-quality research projects
during the course of their training. All residents are expected to present
their reseach at the Annual Plastic Surgery Resident Reseach day held in the
Fall. An additional 3 manuscripts prepared for submission to a journal, are
strongly encouraged. The expectation here reflects the quality of work that is
presented at research day.

A microsurgical laboratory, as well as fresh cadaver laboratory are available
for research. There is a Research Coordinator to help residents develop their
research projects.



**Seminars**** **  
During the first 2 years of Surgical Foundations there are weekly lectures and
structured learning events.

In the subsequent three years (PGY 3-5), there is a senior resident seminar
series.  This is a didactic program of seminars conducted on a weekly basis.

Journal club is held bi-monthly to critically appraise select journal articles
by residents with the oversight of faculty.

* * *

# Training Sites

**Resources**

Training at McMaster University occurs at four main sites that includes:

  * Hamilton General Hospital (Burns, Trauma, Microsurgery)
  * Juravinski Hospital (Oncological Reconstruction)
  * McMaster University Medical Centre (Pediatrics)
  * St. Joseph's Hospital (Head and Neck Reconstruction, General Plastic Surgery)
  * West Lincoln Memorial Hospital and King Campus (Community Plastic Surgery) 

In addition, aesthetic exposure occurs via the Oakville Trafalgar Hospital and
through private clinics.

Each hospital provides areas of special expertise selected to fit with the
resident's training.



* * *

# Additional Information

**Quick Facts:**



-There are opportunities for interprovincial and international electives while training in our program



-Ratio of residents to faculty in senior years is 1:1



-Early in training hands on surgical exposure 



-Microsurgical skills are learned in a live animal model setting 



-We have an exemplary evidenced based health research centre



-High volume acute care, trauma and burn centre



-Provide the full compliment of pediatric plastic surgery care 



-We house the second busiest burn centre in the province 







* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27445?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27445