#  University of Alberta - Anesthesiology - Edmonton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
IMG Stream for IMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Graham Steel  

Address Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine  
University of Alberta  
Clinical Sciences Building, Room 2-150  
Edmonton , Alberta, T6G 2G3  

Work  780-407-8600

Fax  780-407-3200

Websites of Interest [ Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine
](https://www.ualberta.ca/anesthesiology-pain-medicine/index.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Graham Steel

Title: Program Director

Email: gsteel@ualberta.ca

  

Name: Dr. Jaime Sim

Title: Associate Program Director

  

Name: Darci Chaba

Title: Program Administrator

Email: apmedu@ualberta.ca

Phone: 780-407-2781

  

Name: Laura Kruzenga

Title: Program Administrator

Email: apmedu@ualberta.ca

Phone: 780-407-7361

  

* * *

# Important Information

Our Program does not favour residents who do electives at our site or numerous
electives in the specialty for which they are applying. Per the
[AFMC](https://www.afmc.ca/resources-data/education/undergraduate-students-
electives-md-graduates/#demystifyingResident):

Elective Diversification  
The [AFMC Student Elective Diversification
Policy](https://www.afmc.ca/resources-data/education/undergraduate-students-
electives-md-graduates/#demystifyingResident) was implemented at all Faculties
of Medicine in Canada beginning with the Class of 2021 and will ensure that
student elective opportunities do not exceed eight weeks in any single entry-
level discipline.

Because of the above, programs cannot place emphasis on electives during the
selection process. Medical Schools across Canada are advising their medical
students to do a broad range of electives and not focus on one area to the
exclusion of others. Additionally, per our own PGME Resident Selection Best
Practices guideline 2.12: "Programs must consider and value applicants with
broad clinical experiences and not expect or over-emphasize numerous electives
in one discipline or at a local site".  

Reference Letters

Per the [AFMC](https://www.afmc.ca/learners-news-november-2023/), reference
letters:

  * Reference documents from the institution to where the applicant is applying must not be a criterion for file review nor ultimately, for ranking.    

  * There will be no requirement to obtain a discipline-specific reference document for the discipline to which the applicant is applying.   

Please note that your program description will be sent back to you for edits
if they violate the above.

* * *

# Return of Service

There are no return of service requirements at the University of Alberta.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

**PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CAREFULLY**

**International Medical Graduates  **(IMGs) interested in postgraduate medical
training positions in Alberta are eligible to apply to IMG positions at the
University of Alberta provided they have applied to and been assessed as
eligible by the Alberta International Medical Graduate Program (AIMG) Program.

The AIMG Program determination of eligibility to participate in the match
process is valid for the specified match year only. Please visit the AIMG
Program website ([www.aimg.ca](http://www.aimg.ca/)) for details on deadlines,
eligibility criteria and the application process.

ALL matched applicants MUST successfully complete an Externship before they
can proceed to residency training. Applicants MUST be available to start
Externship in the Spring of 2025. CPSA licensure is mandatory for this
component. The AIMG Program will provide information on this process to
successful applicants.

All matched applicants must meet the licensing criteria for registration with
the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA) for postgraduate
education. Please review the requirements at
[https://cpsa.ca](https://cpsa.ca/ "https://cpsa.ca/"). Any delays in
providing the required documentation to the CPSA may result in a delay in the
issuance of licensure and a delay in the start of Externship and postgraduate
training.

The Externship period is a total of 10 weeks in duration. Externship is
comprised of 2-weeks of classroom-based orientation, workshops and academic
sessions in Calgary and 8-weeks of clinical assessment based in Edmonton.

Residency programs determine the final outcome of Externship; the decision is
final and there is no appeal process.

**Alberta IMG Program (AIMG) Multiple Mini Interview (MMI) results:**

Multiple Mini Interviews (MMI) scores will be shared directly to the residency
programs by AIMG. MMI results are not submitted by applicants.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Please see the Alberta [provincial
criteria.](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/)

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) are required to provide proof of
English language proficiency as determined by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) who completed their medical education in
Quebec or at the University of Ottawa (French Stream) are required to provide
proof of English language proficiency as determined by the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

CMGs who completed their medical education at the University of Ottawa must
indicate on their application which stream they completed (either French or
English).

_For more information on the CPSA English language requirements, please visit
the  [CPSA website](https://cpsa.ca/physicians/registration/english-language-
proficiency/)._

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

No more than three references will be accepted.  **One letter from a physician
outside the discipline of anesthesia  is** **REQUIRED**. The purpose of asking
for a reference from outside the field of anesthesia is to ensure that the
applicant demonstrates a strong work ethic, exemplary interpersonal skills,
and a willingness to learn even when they are not working in their preferred
field of medicine. An application that includes three references from
anesthesia rotations only (with an FRCPC of Family Practice Anesthesiologist)
will still be reviewed, but will be at a disadvantage during the file review
process. A reference letter from an Intensivist that also practices anesthesia
will be considered outside the field of anesthesia for the purpose of this
criteria if the assessment was completed while the applicant was on an ICU
rotation. A letter from a senior resident will **not**  be accepted.

Additional documents

Required

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  800

  

A personal letter stating why the applicant feels they are suited to our
specialty is required. What specifically about the anesthesia program at the
University of Alberta or living in Edmonton appeals to you. Please include
whether or not you have any connections to the city.

  1. Why you have chosen a career in anesthesia?
  2. If you have been practicing in a field outside of anesthesia for over a year, what are the things that you will enjoy and dislike about the transition to this field of medicine compared to your current area?
  3. If you completed your training over a year ago, please describe why you will be able to transition to becoming a resident again with the associated loss of autonomy and clinical freedom.

 Maximum of 800 words

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Custom Résumé / CV

 Required if not already part of CaRMS application

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

The files will be reviewed by 2 independent assessors each. The candidate's
academic performance, CV, reference letters and personal letter is reviewed.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 18, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Following a review of applicants, selected
candidates will be invited to an interview. This year, interviews will be
conducted via Zoom. An interview is mandatory.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Interviews will be with residents and
staff from our program and are open-file interviews.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

## Program goals

We want to select a diverse set of applicants with a true interest in
Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine, an apparent potential for the specialty who
would be suitable for our program, and are likely to contribute to the
program, specialty, and society - in a variety of ways: research, teaching,
administration, and innovation.

Our goal is to provide a learning environment that facilitates development of
medical school graduates into complete Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Canada specialist certified consultant anesthesiologists with a
passion for lifelong learning and healthy work-life balance.

Our vision is that our residency program will be a top ranked program in
Canada recognized for its high quality clinical, academic, and research
programs; world-class integrated simulation program; and clear focus on
healthy, positive and enthusiastic learning environments.

## Selection process goals

Our program is committed to ensuring every resident develops the specialized
knowledge and skills to become a high caliber anesthesiologist. We have a
robust and well-structured training program that is invested in fostering our
residents to develop this expertise.

There are some qualities that facilitate a learner's training and future
practice as an anesthesiologist. Our program values several non-cognitive
traits that serve as the backbone for training and therefore are incorporated
into our selection criteria. These include 6 core values: communication,
kindness, a strong work ethic, attention to detail, enthusiasm for learning,
and an interest to invest in the program and specialty.

**Communication**  - Includes communicating well in teams, delivery of medical
care in critical events, as well as in administrative and clinical
responsibilities.

**Kindness**  - We deeply value both compassion for patients, as well as being
considerate of our peers and allied health workers. A safe working environment
is critical for appropriate delivery of care, and can specifically be a
concern under stressful situations or critical events.

**Work-ethic**  - It is important for learners to devote effort to their
clinical environments. The program invests in the learner and we expect the
learner to invest in their environment and in themselves.

**Attention to detail**  - We expect applicants to have a high attention to
detail, in their organization and clinical practice.

**Enthusiasm for learning**  - It is important for our residents to have a
passion for learning, to deliver the highest standards of care for their
future patients.

**Investing in the program and specialty**  - We value learners that invest in
teaching and supporting their peer residents, and their program at large. As
staff anesthesiologists, our specialty's growth is dependent on contributions
through administrative leadership roles, research, and education.

  
Selection criteria will be based on assessing these 6 core values, as well as
a balance of all CanMED roles.

## File review process

Review team composition : The files will be reviewed by 2 independent
assessors each. The candidate's academic performance, CV, reference letters
and personal letter is reviewed.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Looking for above-average CVs   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline. We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not specifically evaluate this component outside of previously submitted academic performance.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Good work-life balance, well-rounded   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Should demonstrate experience in some form of leadership role   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Indications of remediation, unsatisfactory completion, performance deficiencies and adverse actions should be explained   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Well-rounded life experiences; is interested in and has good understanding of the Anesthesia specialty.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Strong reference letters. One letter from a physician outside the discipline of anesthesia is REQUIRED. A letter from a senior resident will not be accepted.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Not necessary, but definitely an asset   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  No unexplained absences or breaks during training, no fails or incompletes   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  works well in a team   
Collegiality |  enjoyable/pleasant interview; demonstrates the ability to work with varying personalities   
Communication skills |  is articulate and confident   
Health advocacy |  promotes health and access to health care   
Interest in the discipline |  demonstrates a keen interest in Anesthesiology   
Interest in the program |  demonstrates interest in working at UofA   
Leadership skills |  demonstrates confidence and ability to take a leadership role   
Professionalism |  demonstrates respect for diversity and all members of interdisciplinary teams   
Scholarly activities |  research is an asset   
Other interview component(s) |  The program places significant weight on the applicant interview and appreciates the time invested in getting to know the applicants via a face-to-face encounter. This is our opportunity to assess the applicant and ask questions which give insight into suitability to the specialty and for our Program. We are looking for our future colleagues and the future of our specialty.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The University of Alberta conducts a postgraduate training program in
anesthesia in accordance with the specialty training requirements of the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada. The PGY1 year is described in
the University of Alberta introduction pages. Compulsory portions of the
PGY2-5 years of the training program are completed in four Edmonton tertiary
care teaching hospitals. These institutions, with a combined volume of
approximately >50,000 surgical procedures annually, provide abundant clinical
resources for a training program of 30-35 residents.

The **University of Alberta Hospital** is clinically strong in the areas of
pediatric anesthesia, regional anesthesia, acute and chronic pain management,
neuroanesthesia and cardiac anesthesia (adult, pediatric, and
transplantation), with additional specialized experiences available in
anesthesia for transplantation and for major burn surgery.

The **Royal Alexandra Hospital** offers strong clinical experience in thoracic
and high risk obstetrical anesthesia while also maintaining a broad variety of
other surgical disciplines.  In addition, it provides a specific airway
rotation.

The **Grey Nuns Hospital** hosts major vascular anesthesia and an extremely
busy obstetrical anesthesia service while also offering experience in lower
risk community anesthesia.

The **Misericordia Hospital** offers a broad range of experiences in
ambulatory anesthesia.

There is a well-organized academic program consisting of general and
subspecialty case-based seminars, lead resident rounds, interesting case
discussions, journal clubs, and visiting speaker lectures. Financial resources
are available to support attendance of residents at a major specialty
conference within North America. Opportunities exist for residents to
participate in clinical and basic science research, and this is strongly
encouraged.

We conduct semi-annual oral examinations on all residents from PGY2-5. A sub-
committee organizes oral exam practice throughout the year for PGY5 residents.

The anesthesiology program has access to a high fidelity patient simulator
complete with anesthesia machine, standard and difficult airway equipment and
surgical props. Residents from PGY1-5 participate in an annual Anesthesia
Crisis Resource Management simulation. All residents from PGY1-5 participate
in case-based simulations that mirror the concurrent academic program.
Anesthesia residents also participate in simulation sessions in difficult
airway, in-house code and trauma throughout their training.



PGY-1 (Transition to Discipline and Foundations)

The sequence of training begins with a PGY1 resident seconded to a broad based
clinical year. Residents complete the following rotations:  Medicine,
Pediatrics, Surgery, Obstetrics and a minimum of two blocks of anesthesia.
There is also an Anesthesia Communications course which includes an
introduction to anesthesia equipment and pre- and post-operative medicine,
establishing a solid foundation in anesthesiology.



Foundations II and Core (PGY2-4)

The transition from Foundations I to II begins with an Anesthesia Simulation
Boot Camp which allows trainees to experience deliberate practice in a number
of common and important anesthesia scenarios.  There is also a dedicated
summer lecture series which follows the boot camp.

Residents in Foundations II and Core concentrate their experience in the O.R.
in general anesthesia, obstetric anesthesia, regional anesthesia, and
difficult airway rotations. There is a continuum of learning and throughout
Core residents will also concentrate their experience in the subspecialty
rotations which include cardiac, thoracic, neurosurgical and pediatric
anesthesia, in a variety of intensive care settings and relevant medicine
subspecialties such as cardiac and pulmonary medicine.  Other highlights
include Regional Anesthesia and FOCUS workshops during the academic year.



Transition to Practice (PGY5)

The Transition to Practice year has up to six months elective time available,
with the remaining six months usually spent as a senior resident in
anesthesia.



Research  
All residents are required to make two scholarly presentations at the Annual
Research Day during their residency. This typically consists of a poster
presentation in PGY2 and an oral presentation in PGY4. Ideally, clinical or
basic science projects should be the goals of the residents which would be
showcased at the Annual Research  Day as a project proposal (poster
presentation) and preliminary data / completed work (oral presentation).
Residents are strongly encouraged to identify a particular research interest
and formulate a research question / project. Many of these research projects
have been suitable for publication or presentation at National or
International scientific meetings. Exceptional residents may pursue additional
training appropriate to the establishment of a career as a clinician
scientist. Residents have access to seasoned researchers to advise them about
research design, statistics and writing scholarly articles.

Faculty research interests include cardiovascular physiology and pharmacology
with particular interests in the control of vascular tone and hemodynamics,
mechanisms in myocardial protection, applied pharmacology of local anesthetic
agents, blood and blood substitutes, innovative methods of acute and chronic
pain management ultrasound and population based outcome studies and medical
education. The Department has a permanent research infrastructure supporting
ongoing research activities of faculty and residents. There is a strong
emphasis on the performance of regional anesthesia under ultrasound guidance
and the Department has become one of the leading centres in North America in
this rapidly growing discipline.



* * *

# Training Sites

Residents can expect to rotate through the following hospitals:

  * University of Alberta Hospital
  * Royal Alexandra Hospital
  * Grey Nuns Hospital
  * Misericordia Hospital
  * Stollery Children's Hospital
  * Leduc Community Hospital

Residents have access to computers at all sites. Residents have their own
library of available books and materials including AV and computer equipment.

* * *

# Additional Information

  * Interprovincial and international electives are possible
  * There are no mandatory rural rotations but funded electives are available
  * Each resident will typically manage 750-1000 patients per year



CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)

The University of Alberta recognizes the importance of diversity, equity,
inclusivity, decolonization and indigenization (EDIDI) and is committed to the
Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry's policy on anti-racism.

Further, the University is committed to implementing the Truth and
Reconciliation Commission calls to action that are relevant to education and
medicine.  The pursuit of diversity and equitable opportunities is a core
value that guides our selection practices.

The University encourages application from underrepresented groups, including
Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women,
persons of a minority gender identity or sexual orientation, and individuals
who would contribute to the diversity of the medical community.  The CaRMS
Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) is an optional form that candidates
can fill out.

Our program recognizes the importance of EDIDI and anti-racism in residency
selection, but is currently not using the CSIQ as part of our application
process. We are using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable
opportunities for all applicants.

* * *

# FAQ

Please refer to our Department website for more information:

<https://www.ualberta.ca/anesthesiology-pain-medicine/programs/postgraduate-
program/program-overview.html>[ ](https://www.ualberta.ca/anesthesiology-pain-
medicine/programs/postgraduate-program/program-overview.html)

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26983?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26983