#  Queen’s University - Urology - Kingston

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on February 19, 2025

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Jason Izard  

Address Department of Urology  
Victory 4, KGH  
76 Stuart Street  
Kingston, Ontario, K7L 2V7  

Work  (613)549-6666 ext.3743

Work  (613) 545-1970

Websites of Interest [ Department of Urology ](http://www.urology.queensu.ca/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Ms. Beverly Howes

Title: Program Assistant

Email: bev.howes@kingstonhsc.ca

Phone: (613)549-6666 ext. 3743

613 545 1970

  

Name: Dr. Jason Izard

Title: Program Director

Email: jason.izard@kingstonhsc.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

**Electives**

The COVID-19 pandemic impacted candidates’ opportunities to arrange and
complete electives over the past few years but in 2024/2025 candidates can
arrange electives through the AFMC portal. We would like to reassure you
though that a lack of elective opportunity this year will not negatively
impact your application to our program.

COVID-19 vaccination requirements:

Please refer to the 'Restrictions' section of the [Ontario eligibility
criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/ontario/) for messaging regarding COVID-19 vaccination requirements.

**EDIIA Institutional Statement:**

The goal of resident selection is to identify trainees likely to succeed both
in training and, once out in practice, in meeting the health care needs of
patients and Canadian society.  We know that having a physician workforce that
reflects the demographics of the patients that they serve improves health care
outcomes.  There are many populations within Canada under-represented in
medicine (UIM) with a paucity of health care practitioners who are Black,
Indigenous, Persons of Colour, 2SLGBTQ+, from lower socioeconomic backgrounds
and/or with disabilities, and other under-represented in medicine (UIM)
groups. Diversity within training programs has also been shown to improve
training environments.  Queen’s University PGME is strongly committed to
diversity and inclusion within its community for these reasons as well as
being part of the solution to address historic and contemporary inequities.

**Equity and diversity**

We welcome diversity among our trainees and seek to foster an environment that
is welcoming to all, regardless of gender identity, race, religion, or sexual
orientation.

We are committed to advancing equitable and inclusive practices.  Please refer
to the [PGME website](https://meds.queensu.ca/academics/postgraduate/faculty-
staff/applicant-selection) for additional information / resources including
[QHS EDIIA Initiatives](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi) and [EDIIA
statements](https://healthsci.queensu.ca/academics/edi/accessibility-
statements) (Indigenous Land Acknowledgement, Anti-Discrimination Statement,
Inclusion Statement, and Statement on Social Accountability)

**Gaps in Training, Remediation, or Professionalism issues**

Please address any gaps in training, remediation, or professionalism issues in
your personal letter as a separate paragraph. This will not count towards your
maximum word count.

* * *

# Return of Service

If you have a ROS agreement in another province please ensure you aware of the
commitments and requirements.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Please note that due to the volume of applications our program receives we are
not able to provide individual feedback to applicants who are not successful
in the match.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence **must be accompanied by  Canadian government-issued photo ID**.

CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

If possible, one or more reference letters from a faculty member from Urology
is helpful, but not required. We realize this may be difficult given possible
restrictions on electives and reassure you that this will not be detrimental
to your application. Letters should attest to the interest and proficiency of
the candidate in the specialty. Senior resident letters may be considered in
addition.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  1000

  

A personal letter is required. Topics to be covered include: career goals (if
known), personal strengths and weaknesses, and the reason for interest in the
Queen's program in Urology. Maximum word count: 1000 words.

Custom Résumé / CV

Your CV should be as complete and comprehensive as possible.

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Documents that are not in English must be accompanied by a notarized
translation. Students applying in the last year of medical school will need to
submit their most recent marks/transcripts, and will need to provide proof of
their MD to CPSO prior to the start of residency training.

Optional - will be reviewed

Abstract/Publications

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews in 2025 will once again be held
virtually.  The specialty event we call 'Urology CaRMS Interview Fair' will
take place on a weekend in late January or early February 2025.  
  
Information regarding interviews and the virtual platform will be available in
the weeks leading up to CaRMS Fair.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Applicants to be interviewed will be
contacted as soon as possible in early January 2025.  
  
The interview with Queen's Urology is an unstructured discussion, intended to
familiarize ourselves with the candidate.  Both faculty and residents
participate in the interviews.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

Your application should include an acceptable academic record which
demonstrates proficiency in those subjects related to urology as well as
proficiency in clinical skills and communication skills.

A proven interest in urology or related fields is helpful. We realize that
electives are not possible right now due to the COV-ID pandemic. Completing
electives/selectives in Urology is not critical (or useful) for your medical
education and subsequent matching to Urology.

Our primary goal in the process is to identify candidates with the highest
potential "fit" at Queen's. We value clinical competence and teachability, and
the desire to learn to care for patients both medically and surgically.
Interpersonal skills are vital to this, and key in the close-knit nature of
our Department.

References from academic urologists, attesting to the interest and proficiency
of the candidate in the specialty.

Excellent communication and interpersonal skills as demonstrated in
evaluations provided by the Medical Student Performance Record, personal
letter and at the interview.

## Program goals

The primary goal of the Urological Residency Training Program is to ensure
that the trainee is competent in all aspects, both clinical and academic, with
respect to the care of patients with Urological Disease.  The specific
objectives will align with the Royal College Objectives of Training in Urology
and Specialty Training Requirements in Urology.

Urology competencies will align to those elaborated by the Specialty Committee
for Urology at the Royal College.  In alignment with the CanMEDS 2015
Framework and a competency-based curriculum design.  We strive to promote and
participate in continuing medical education activities and to make our mark in
urological research through the work done at the Centre for Applied Urological
Research at Queen's.

## Selection process goals

Applications will be assessed for academic achievements (grades, scholarships,
awards), previous employment, research endeavours, extracurricular activities
(community, committees, athletics, arts, unique qualities), personal letter
(specific for Queen's), reference letters, elective experience in Urology or
related Urology specialties and Queen's elective experience.  It is not
mandatory for applicants to complete an elective at Queen's however.

Successful applicants will have an excellent academic record and have
demonstrated expressed interest in Urology.  Applicants should possess
expressed and fulfilled research interests (not necessary to have been related
to Urology).  It is important to the applicant's success in our residency
program that they possess a high level of motivation, aptitude and maturity.
We will be looking to identify applicants with excellent inter-personal skills
and ethical behaviour.

## File review process

Review team composition : The Residency Program Committee makes up the review
team. This includes: Program Director, Department Head, all other faculty
members and all residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 26 - 50 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  previous education, work experience, volunteer experience, scholarships   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Urology, urology related electives, location, supervisor, duration   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  variety, type, role of applicant, well-roundedness   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  previous leadership experiences   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  overall medical student performance   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  interest in Urology, interest in Queen's Urology Program   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  knowledge, skills, professionalism, maturity   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  quality of project, role of the applicant, authorship   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  transcript marks   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We encourage applicants to have completed at least one elective in our
discipline.

On-site electtive: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:  We recognize that students
have a limited time to complete electives.  It is not mandatory for students
to complete an elective at our centre to be granted an interview.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  ability to work well in a team environment in a productive manner   
Collegiality |  ability to function well with peers and colleagues   
Communication skills |  clarity and concision,listening, confidence, friendliness, open-mindedness, nonverbal communication   
Health advocacy |  examples of previous experiences and actions to promote advocacy   
Interest in the discipline |  previous experiences, knowledge, research   
Interest in the program |  knowledge of our program, experience at our centre   
Leadership skills |  previous experiences, ability to make decisions, ability to deal with difficult situations   
Professionalism |  previous experiences, ability to act in a professional manner, appropriate attire   
Scholarly activities |  previous awards, scholarships, academic endeavours   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

We are a small program with a collegial and nuturing atmosphere.  At Queen's
we pride ourselves on the quality of the teaching program, and have an
excellent record of success at the Royal College exams for the last 20+ years.

There are three weekly scheduled teaching sessions: Academic Half Day for
three hours on Friday morning, Professor Rounds on Wednesday morning for an
hour and GU Oncology Rounds for an hour on Thursday aftenoon.  The excellent
teacher-to-student ratio means that each resident is heavily involved in the
learning process.

Research participation is expected during residency, and the outstanding
research programs and publication record of our faculty facilitates this.
There is a broad range and breadth of opportunity to learn and participate
with national and global leaders.  Residents are encouraged and motivated to
present their research at several meetings taking place nationally and
internationally.  Transportation and accommodation are usually paid for by the
Program.

Queen's University is located in beautiful and historic Kingston, Ontario, a
scenic waterfront city in south-eastern Ontario at the junction of the St.
Lawrence River and Lake Ontario.  Its population is approximately 160,000 and
is positioned just hours from Ottawa, Montreal and Toronto allowing for easy
weekend getaways for theatre, hockey games or trendy shopping. The Rideau
lakes and beautiful Prince Edward County are a short drive away.

Kingston is a highly walkable city with a beautiful downtown steps from the
Kingston Health Sciences Centre hospitals. It has an excellent demographic mix
from its combined roots in government, industry and academia. Entertainment
and the variety of restaurants in Kingston are far above expectations for a
city of its population. Live music is available on any given night, and there
is surprising access to major acts in intimate settings. Living downtown makes
it easy to get to work, shop or go out for the evening, all within a short
walk. Commutes are short for those outside of the downtown.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Department of Urology at Queen's is a smaller, academically oriented
department noted for a close working relationship with residents. There are 8
faculty members for 6 residents. Although applicants at the end of their
residency training in urology will be fully capable of carrying on independent
urological practice, the academic interests stimulated throughout the program
have equally often resulted in trainees deciding to pursue further training at
the fellowship level. Approximately half have entered academic positions in
faculties of medicine across Canada and half have pursued private practice
opportunities in Canada and the U.S. We enjoy close relationships with our
alumni. The strengths of the program include the close personal supervision of
trainees to monitor progress and the success of trainees in finding rewarding
careers in urology.

PGY-1  
  

This first post-graduate year is geared to the introduction of basic surgical
skills and the necessary ancillary skills for pre- and post-operative
management of surgical patients. This PGY-1 program is part of the Surgical
Foundations program at Queen's University (see description of Queen's core
surgery, CaRMS code 1923). Urology residents on core surgery rotations
participate fully in the core surgery academic program. Rotations are
organized by the Program Director in Urology.

Under the CBD program (http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-
design-cbd-e), residents complete the requirements of the Transition to
Discipline stage of training in both Urology and Surgical Foundations.
Frequent assessment of milestones under the Entrustable Professional
Activities (EPAs) is assured.

Urology: 16 - 26 weeks

General surgery: 8 weeks at Kingston General Hospital

Plastic surgery: 8 weeks

Emergency Medicine: 4 weeks

Electives: 4-8 weeks

Vacation: 4 weeks throughout the year plus the Holiday Break

  
  

PGY-2  
  

The requirements for Surgical Foundations are completed in the second year.
The resident is eligible for the Surgical Foundations examination of the Royal
College in the Fall of their PGY2 year. This is an obligatory component of the
certification requirements in urology and must be completed prior to being
eligible for the urology examinations in the PGY5 year. Residents are
encouraged to complete elective rotations in a community setting and rotations
can be organized in several communities in Ontario or in other parts of Canada
in general surgery and urology. For many community rotations housing is
provided. Rotations include:

Under the CBD program (http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-
design-cbd-e), residents complete the requirements of the Foundations to
Discipline stage of training in both Urology and Surgical Foundations.
Frequent assessment of milestones under the Entrustable Professional
Activities (EPAs) is assured.

General surgery: 8-12 weeks (8 weeks may be done at community hospital)

Critical care: 8 weeks

Transplantation: 4 weeks

Vascular surgery: 8 weeks

Urology: 12 - 26 weeks

Electives: 8 weeks (pathology, community urology)

Vacation: 4 weeks throughout the year plus Holiday Break

  
  

PGY-3  
  

The PGY-3 year is spent in the Department of Urology. Specific objectives
include the pre-operative and post-operative management of urological patients
with an emphasis on ambulatory urology. Operative skills in endoscopic and
basic open surgical urology are acquired, and emergency urology consultation
experience  is broad.

Under the CBD program (http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-
design-cbd-e), residents enter the Core of Discipline stage of training in
Urology. This forms the bulk of surgical and urological clinical management
skills. Frequent assessment of milestones under the Entrustable Professional
Activities (EPAs) is assured.

  
  

PGY-4  
  

The PGY-4 year continues with the acquisition of operative and management
skills required for urological patients. The senior resident (PGY-4) is in
charge of inpatient management on the urology ward as well as delegation of
house staff to clinical duties. There is a 2 month obligatory rotation at the
Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario or Sick Kids Hospital for pediatric
urology. Housing is provided. Although there is a pediatric experience
throughout the residency program, an intensive 2 month rotation is provided to
ensure the acquisition of the necessary knowledge and skills for competent
urological practice.

Under the CBD program (http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-
design-cbd-e), residents continue the requirements of the Core of Discipline
stage of training in Urology. Frequent assessment of milestones under the
Entrustable Professional Activities (EPAs) is assured.

  
  

PGY-5  
  

The chief residency is devoted to surgical skills development including intra-
operative decision making so that by the end of the program the resident is
able to function as an independent consultant and perform all major urological
procedures. The chief resident gains practice autonomy in the resident urgent
urology clinic supervised by the attending on call staff person. There are
administrative duties related to call schedule and some teaching
responsibilities for junior residents and rotating residents from other
programs. Beginning in 2022, as of the summer of the PGY-5 year, residents
will be eligible for the examinations leading to certification of the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.

Under the CBD program (http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-
design-cbd-e), residents complete the requirements of the Core of Discipline
stage of training in Urology, and move to complete the Transition to Practice
stage. Frequent assessment of milestones under the Entrustable Professional
Activities (EPAs) is assured.

  
  

Research  
  

Research projects are encouraged at all levels of training in the urology
program at Queen's. Residents participate in the annual Upstate New York
Resident Research Competition held in April, as well as the CUA and AUA if
accepted. There is no provision for a dedicated research rotation in the 5
year urology program within the requirements of the Royal College but many
residents continue in research fellowships following the residency program.
Research programs take many shapes, from participation in the clinical aspects
of basic science, patient cohort analysis, large administrative databases and
many others.

  
  

Resources  
  

The urological clinics associated with the Department of Urology have well
over 15,000 visits per year providing a wealth of clinical material for
instructional purposes. All patients are considered as teaching patients.
There is sufficient variety of cases - both secondary and tertiary referrals -
to provide opportunities for learning in the breadth of urological practice.
There is a resident library equipped with a selection of current textbooks and
journals and computer for literature searches, presentation preparation, and
research activities.

  
  

Didactic Education Program  
  

Surgical Foundations residents are expected to attend the SF seminar series.
Attendance at Department of Urology academic activities is voluntary during
off-service rotations but is compulsory during the urology (PGY-3 to PGY-5)
years. There is a weekly Academic Half Day (Friday mornings) which provided
protected time for resident didactic instruction. The academic activities
include Departmental Grand Rounds, lectures, and seminars as well as
examination preparation sessions. There is a weekly Uro-Oncology Rounds which
features discussion around complex multidisciplinary cancer cases. There is a
weekly one hour Professor Rounds (Wednesday morning) which provide didactic
instruction in a number of domains of urology as well as ethics, management
skills, etc. There is a monthly Journal Club where critical appraisal skills
are developed.



* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

Kingston Health Sciences Centre (Kingston General Hospital) - for adult
urology and most core surgery rotations

Kingston Health Sciences Centre (Hotel Dieu Hospital) - for most outpatient
activities on core surgery rotations

Lennox & Addington County General Hospital - for additional ambulatory
outpatient clinic and O.R. experience

Pediatric Urology Rotation (2 months) - Children's Hospital of Eastern
Ontario, Ottawa or Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto

Weenybayko General Hospital (Moose Factory ON) - for outreach clinics in a
James Bay indigenous centre



* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27051?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27051