#  University of Manitoba - Hematological Pathology - Winnipeg  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Daniel Marko  

Address Hematological Pathology  
L4006-3 St. Boniface General Hospital  
University of Manitoba  
Winnipeg, Manitoba  

Work  2042581391

Work  2047893212

Websites of Interest [ Department of Pathology
](https://umanitoba.ca/medicine/medicine/department-pathology)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Terri Martin

Title: Program Administrator

Email: terri.martin@umanitoba.ca

Phone: 2047893212

  

* * *

# Important Information

## **IMPORTANT INFORMATION FOR THE APPLICANT**



The University of Manitoba campuses are located on original lands of
Anishinaabeg, Cree, Oji-Cree, Dakota, and Dene peoples, and on the homeland of
the Metis Nation.  We respect the Treaties and Agreements that were made on
these territories, we acknowledge the harms and mistakes of the past, and we
dedicate ourselves to move forward in partnership with Indigenous communities
in a spirit of reconciliation and collaboration.



 **About the Department:**

The Hematological Pathology residency program is a Royal College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Canada accredited program. This competency-based program aims
to develop competent specialists in the diagnosis of various hematologic
disorders encompassed within the fields of morphology, hemostasis, and
transfusion medicine. The residents will develop leadership qualities,
critical thinking, and managerial expertise which will lead to productive
careers in Hematological Pathology with the highest ethical and professional
standards.

The residents will do their training in the city of Winnipeg at three major
teaching sites linked with tertiary health centers, Health Science Center
(HSC), Winnipeg, St. Boniface (SBH), and Canadian Blood Services (CBS),
Winnipeg. All three teaching sites are accredited by top accreditation bodies:
both HSC and SBH are accredited by College of American Pathologists (CAP),
while CBS is accredited by both CAP and American Association of Blood Banks
(AABB). HSC and SBH provides an extensive breadth of different common and rare
entities that a hematological pathology resident needs to be exposed to in
their training, which include bone marrow aspirates and biopsies, peripheral
blood films, lymph nodes, hemoglobin studies, immunopathology (including flow
cytometry and autoimmune testing), hematological molecular diagnostics, as
well as transfusion medicine and hemostasis. Across the street from HSC, the
Canadian Blood Services, Winnipeg, provides an extensive array of transfusion
medicine laboratory testing for most hospitals across the province, including
large fast-paced blood banks at HSC and SBH.



_**Mandatory PGME New Resident Orientation Day: June 26, 2025**_

University of Manitoba eligibility requirements
<https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/manitoba/>





_**Mandatory Hematological Pathology Residency Program Orientation Day: June
27, 2025**_







**Residency Training in  Hematological Pathology**

**_General Structure and Content of the Program_**

The Hematological Pathology Residency Training Program is designed to meet the
training requirements of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Canada.  We pride ourselves on having a demanding and comprehensive program
that provides residents the opportunity to individualize a training plan
tailored to their ultimate career goals.  The following includes the current
rotation requirements for the Hematological Pathology Residency Training
Program at the University of Manitoba.  Note that one “block” equals 4 weeks
of training and there is a total of approximately 13 blocks per year.



**Competency By Design Stream (CBD)**

_**Transition to Discipline Schedule  **_

2 Blocks \- Transition to Hematological Pathology



_**Foundations Schedule  **_

4 Blocks Adult Hematology  
1 Block Pediatric Hematology/Oncology  
1 Block Clinical Selective  
1 Block Diagnostic Morphology - General Hematology Lab  
1 Block Lymphoma Pathology  
1 Block Flow Cytometry  
1 Block Hemoglobinopathy  
1 Block Hemostasis  
1 Block Transfusion Medicine



**_Core Schedule  _**

7 Blocks Diagnostic Morphology - General Hematology Lab  
1 Block Research  
5 Blocks Lymphoma Pathology  
4 Blocks Transfusion Medicine  
1 Block Molecular Pathology  
2 Block Flow Cytometry  
1 Block Histocompatibility - Tissue Typing  
2 Blocks Lab Management/Quality Assurance  
3 Block Hemoglobinopathy  
1 Block Cytogenetics  
1 Blocks Selective  
4 Blocks of Hemostasis

**Transition to Practice Schedule  **

6 Blocks - Transition to Practice



**Scholarly Project (Mandatory)**

Successful completion of a scholarly project relevant to Hematological
Pathology is a requirement for certification (based on the Royal College’s
criteria). Residents are encouraged to complete and present their project by
the end of their Core Schedule. The resident will have scheduled “Research”
time into their schedule so they can work on/finalize their project.  The
supervisor must submit a detailed work plan on what the resident will
accomplish during this rotation block. In addition, the supervisor must
provide a progress report outlining their accomplishments. Residents are still
expected to attend Academic Half Day Sessions, Pathology Grand Rounds, and any
other teaching sessions during the “research project rotation”.



_**The program outlined above is to be regarded as the minimum training
requirement. The Program Director and the CBD Committee may require the
resident to do additional training to ensure that clinical competences have
been achieved.**_





**Additional Information**

_**Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada: Applying competency-
based practices to residency education**_

To contribute to the success of Canadian physicians and the delivery of high-
quality patient care, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada
has embarked upon an initiative to introduce competency-based medical
education (CBME) in Canadian postgraduate specialty training and in
professional practice in Canada. This initiative, called [Competence by Design
(CBD)](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/competence-design-e), aims to enhance
patient care by aligning medical education and lifelong learning with evolving
patient needs and empowering learners to more fully engage in their education
process.

CBD will use [time as a
framework](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/cbd/competence-by-design-cbd-e)
rather than the basis for progression. It is not anticipated that the duration
of training will change for the majority of trainees. Residency programs will
be broken down into
[stages](http://www.royalcollege.ca/rcsite/documents/cbd/cbd-competence-
continuum-diagram-legal-e.pdf), and each stage will have a series of
milestones based on required competencies. These milestones will create more
targeted learning outcomes and involve more frequent, formative assessments
within the clinical workplace to ensure residents are developing and receiving
feedback on the skills they need.

All programs implementing CBD will continue to undergo the same rigorous
accreditation processes as traditional programs. All CBD programs (and
traditional programs) will continue to lead to Royal College approved
certification. Certification for trainees in both CBD and traditional programs
will include the completion of a Royal College examination; however, residents
in CBD programs will also be assessed against program milestones throughout
their training. Within a CBD program, all milestones (documented within an
electronic portfolio) and the Royal College examination must be successfully
completed to achieve certification.

For more information, please contact
[cbd@royalcollege.ca](mailto:cbd@royalcollege.ca).







** **

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

Application documents must be submitted in English.

Translated documents will be accepted only if verified by a certified
translator.

You are required to fulfill ALL of the most current Provincial Criteria for
Canadian Medical Graduates for Manitoba.

The criteria can be found at:   http://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/manitoba





* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Notarized/certified photocopied proof of citizenship must be provided.
Photocopies are accepted but citizenship documents other than what is listed
above are not accepted  
  
CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate the
verification of citizenship/legal status required by postgraduate offices for
entry into residency. Third-party verification simplifies the process for
applicants and programs. All applicants who do not receive third-party
citizenship verification will be required to upload and assign an acceptable
proof of citizenship document. Please see additional information
[here](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752).

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

**Language Proficiency**  
English is the language of study at the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, Max
Rady College of Medicine, University of Manitoba. All applicants whose first
language is not English must submit proof of English language proficiency to
CaRMS by the file review opening date.  
  
**CMG/USMG**

  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada or the US, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.
  * If you graduated from an English medical school in Canada, French Stream in Ottawa or Quebec or the United States, you are exempt from providing proof of language proficiency.

**IMG:**

Candidates are exempted from English language proficiency testing if their
undergraduate medical education was taken in English in one of the below
countries that have English as a first and native language:

**List of countries that have English as a first and native language** :
Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Canada, Ireland, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, US
Virgin Islands - Caribbean Islands: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
Dominica, Grenada, Grenadines, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago

 Please note the following:

  * Photocopies are acceptable.

**Language Proficiency results will not be accepted by fax or e-mail.**

Examinations

Optional - will be reviewed

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

**Three letters of reference are required.  **  We ask that your referees to
speak to your clinical abilities and to your interpersonal and communication
skills.  Please select supervisors, preceptors or other individuals who have
had ample opportunity to assess you as a candidate for the Hematological
Pathology Residency Program.  The reference letters should be both descriptive
and objective and comply with CaRMS recommendations. _**Reference from senior
residents will not be accepted.**_

All letters of reference must be current and dates on or after January 1,
2024. Undated reference letters will not be accepted.  Do not arrange for more
than three reference letters as any additional letters will not be reviewed.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be ordered from your Registrar.

Must be English original or certified translation.

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter is required.  State reasons for choosing Pathology as a
career, previous exposure to Hematological Pathology or related fields and
research (if applicable), future plans in Hematological Pathology.

Custom Résumé / CV

Due by document deadline

Include a current CV in the Custom Resume section. Please tailor your resume
to provide us with a better understanding of your experiences and commitments.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Please submit a current photo of yourself.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

We ask all candidates to limit emails and phone calls for following up with
your application status, as its a busy time of year and there can be a delay
for responses.  _**If you do not receive an email from the program by January
14, 2025**_ , then you were not selected for the interview process.



_**Steps for Interview Process:**_

All applications are reviewed by the Hematological Pathology Admissions
Committee.  Multiple reviewers review the applications and the choice of
candidates selected for an interview is by consensus.



_**Those selected for an interview will receive an invite by email** _from the
Program Administrator to schedule a date/time

Once the applicant's interview date/time has been confirmed, the Program
Administrator will send another email with more details/instructions
pertaining to your interview date and time.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 23, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews for the first iteration of the
Match will be scheduled for:   **January 23, 2025**  
  
**Interviews will be done virtually this coming year via Zoom.     **  
  
When selected candidates receive their email invite, they will be provided
details on how the vitual interviews will be conducted along with the virtual
meeting link.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: We ask all candidates to limit emails
and phone calls for following up with your application status, as its a busy
time of year and there can be a delay for responses.  _**If you do not receive
an email from the program by January 14, 2025**_ , then you were not selected
for the interview process.  
  
  
  
_**Steps for Interview Process:**_  
  
All applications are reviewed by the Hematological Pathology Admissions
Committee.  Multiple reviewers review the applications and the choice of
candidates selected for an interview is by consensus.  
  
_**Those selected for an interview will receive an invite by email**  _from
the Program Administrator to schedule a date/time  
  
Once the applicant's interview date/time has been confirmed, the Program
Administrator will send another email with more details/instructions
pertaining to your interview date and time.  
  
The formal interview process will be a panel interview.  The Panel will
consist of the Program Director, as well as faculty members and a current
Hematological Pathology Resident.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The Department of Hematologial Pathology at the University of Manitoba is
committed to a fair, equitable, and transparent selection process.

All applicants will have a comprehensive and structured review of their CaRMS
file which will also include the following:

1\. Successful completion of undergraduate medical studies at an accredited
Medical School.

2\. Demonstrate interest in Hematological Pathology (e.g. electives, research,
relevant publications).



The review will be conducted by the Hematological Pathology Admission
Committee and the selection for interview will be determined by the outcome of
the file review.



## Program goals

The University of Manitoba is committed to the social justice principles of
equity, access & participation and to promoting opportunities for systemically
marginalized groups who have been excluded from full participation at the
University and the larger community including Indigenous, Black, racially
marginalized Peoples, persons with disabilities and those who identify as
2SLGBTQIA+ (Two Spirit, lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, questioning, intersex,
asexual and other diverse sexual identities) and women.

The Max Rady College of Medicine and the Department of Pathology are dedicated
in assisting and teaching residents on an ongoing basis to educate residents o
becoming exceptional practicioners, leaders and researchers in diagnostic
services in the field of Hematological Pathology to help improve health status
and services to the Province of Manitoba and across Canada.

The Royal College fully accredited Hematological Pathology Residency Training
Program aims to foster a welcoming resourceful and supportive environment, in
order to help residents of the program prepare for certification in
Hematological Pathology, while assisting in their academic goals for becoming
exceptional graduates and practitioners in their field.

## Selection process goals

The Hematological Pathology Residency Training Program Admission Committee are
identifying applicants who have demonstrated or posed an interest in the field
of Hematological Pathology by taking electives or other observerships; and
have demonstrated the ability and enthusiasm to learn and can adapt to various
demands of Hematological Pathology; applicants who have actively participated
in research activities.

An inclusive, open and diverse community is essential to excellence and
fosters voices that have been ignored or discouraged. To address the Rady
Faculty of Health Sciences commitment to equity, access and participation, and
in recognition of the underrepresentation of members of historically and
currently excluded groups,  our program has taken the following proactive
measures as part of our selection process: implicit bias training for all
selection committee members, diverse representation of selection committee
members, minimum one blinded interviewer, inclusion of interview questions
targeted to assess applicant commitment to EDIA, offering necessary
accommodations during the interview process, and second pass/review of
applicants below interview and rank order list cut off to review for possible
bias. We strive for diverse perspectives and cultural safety throughout the
hiring process (resident selection committees, short-list of applicants,
interviews).





## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is composed of the Program Director,
designated faculty members from the Admissions Sub-Committee; and a resident
representative.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 0 - 25 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  The content including research, publications, electives and other experiences   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  The number of electives an individual has done with high interest in Hematological Pathology   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Exam results (including Canadian and US)   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Volunteering, mentoring, personal hobbies   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Interest in clubs, organizations, and mentoring and teaching junior peers   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Interpersonal skills, general comments and assessments   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Interest in Hematological Pathology and program location   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  General performance including interaction with colleagues and patients   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  The content of research activities and its relevance to Hematological Pathology   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic Performance   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We may accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants due to
weather, technology failure, or unforeseen circumstances.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high quality patient care through working in a team environment   
Collegiality |  Behavior, attitude, ability to work well with others   
Communication skills |  Ability to speak and write in English well   
Health advocacy |  Understanding the needs of community, disease prevention, health promotion and health surveillance activities. This will be considered accordingly based on information provided   
Interest in the discipline |  The number of electives and relevant research activities   
Interest in the program |  Hematological Pathology electives, knowledge about the program and location   
Leadership skills |  Involvement in the continuous development and improvement of medical care   
Professionalism |  Adherence to ethical principles and correspondence with all medical staff and residents   
Scholarly activities |  Will be considered accordingly based on the content   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Hematological Pathology residency program is a Royal College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Canada accredited program. This competency-based program aims
to develop competent specialists in the diagnosis of various hematologic
disorders encompassed within the fields of morphology, hemostasis, and
transfusion medicine. The residents will develop leadership qualities,
critical thinking, and managerial expertise which will lead to productive
careers in Hematological Pathology with the highest ethical and professional
standards.

The residents will do their training in the city of Winnipeg at three major
teaching sites linked with tertiary health centers, Health Science Center
(HSC), Winnipeg, St. Boniface (SBH), and Canadian Blood Services (CBS),
Winnipeg. All three teaching sites are accredited by top accreditation bodies:
both HSC and SBH are accredited by College of American Pathologists (CAP),
while CBS is accredited by both CAP and American Association of Blood Banks
(AABB). HSC and SBH provides an extensive breadth of different common and rare
entities that a hematological pathology resident needs to be exposed to in
their training, which include bone marrow aspirates and biopsies, peripheral
blood films, lymph nodes, hemoglobin studies, immunopathology (including flow
cytometry and autoimmune testing), hematological molecular diagnostics, as
well as transfusion medicine and hemostasis. Across the street from HSC, the
Canadian Blood Services, Winnipeg, provides an extensive array of transfusion
medicine laboratory testing for most hospitals across the province, including
large fast-paced blood banks at HSC and SBH.



**Goals of Curriculum**

During residency training in hematological pathology, the residents will have
graduated responsibilities over the course of their training.  Initially, the
residents will review cases on rotations with the faculty on service. Then, as
the resident gains experience, it is expected that the resident will
independently develop accurate diagnostic reports for hematolymphoid
disorders.  But, from the start, the residents will be exposed to most cases
that pass through the various services. The philosophy of training is that
residents learn best by being exposed to a large volume of clinical material
and having a level of responsibility appropriate for their level of training
to ensure the resident will maximize their learning and understanding.
Resident responsibility, under the supervision of an attending pathologist,
will be enough to test their knowledge, hone their decision-making skills, and
learn the practice of hematological pathology.

 On completion of the program, the trainees will be practice-ready in
Hematological Pathology, and capable of assuming a consultant’s role in this
specialty and display excellence in all CanMEDS competencies. The training
program ensures the resident becomes proficient in the diagnosis and
monitoring of disorders of the blood, bone marrow and lymphatic systems, and
hemostasis in adults and children. Also upon completion of training, the
physician is ready to take a leadership role in transfusion medicine and in
the management of a diagnostic hematology laboratory, at the community and
tertiary care levels.





* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 4 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The program adheres to the Standards of Accreditation for Residency Programs,
Training Experiences and Competencies in Hematological Pathology set by the
Royal College of Physicians & Surgeons of Canada. The program's goal is to
prepare residents to be practicing Hematological Pathologists. Scholarly
activity is mandatory for all residents. Residents are encouraged to pursue
basic research activities during their training to further assist them in
their future career planning. Residents are exposed to a variety of
administrative, organizational and managerial structures within the Department
of Pathology and Shared Health Manitoba.

Residents are given 20 days of vacation a year.  Residents are also granted
conference time. Pending on the rotation residents are on, will determine how
many vacation days/conference time they can take.

**_General Structure and Content of the Program_**

The Hematological Pathology Residency Training Program is designed to meet the
training requirements of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Canada.  We pride ourselves on having a demanding and comprehensive program
that provides residents the opportunity to individualize a training plan
tailored to their ultimate career goals.  The following includes the current
rotation requirements for the Hematological Pathology Residency Training
Program at the University of Manitoba.  Note that one “block” equals 4 weeks
of training and there is a total of approximately 13 blocks per year.



**Competency By Design Stream (CBD)**

_**Transition to Discipline Schedule  **_

2 Blocks Transition to Hematological Pathology



_**Foundations Schedule  **_

4 Blocks Adult Hematology  
1 Block Pediatric Hematology/Oncology  
1 Block Clinical Selective  
1 Block Diagnostic Morphology - General Hematology Lab  
1 Block Lymphoma Pathology  
1 Block Flow Cytometry  
1 Block Hemoglobinopathy  
1 Block Hemostasis  
1 Block Transfusion Medicine



**_Core Schedule  _**

7 Blocks Diagnostic Morphology - General Hematology Lab  
1 Block Research  
5 Blocks Lymphoma Pathology  
4 Blocks Hemostasis  
4 Blocks Transfusion Medicine  
1 Block Molecular Pathology  
2 Block Flow Cytometry  
1 Block Histocompatibility - Tissue Typing  
3 Block Hemoglobinopathy  
1 Block Cytogenetics  
2 Blocks Lab Management/Quality Assurance  
1 Blocks Selective  


**Transition to Practice Schedule  **

6 Blocks Transition to Practice



**Scholarly Project (Mandatory)**

Successful completion of a scholarly project relevant to Hematological
Pathology is a requirement for certification (based on the Royal College’s
criteria). Residents are encouraged to complete and present their project by
the end of their Core Schedule. The resident will have scheduled “Research”
time into their schedule so they can work on/finalize their project.  The
supervisor must submit a detailed work plan on what the resident will
accomplish during this rotation block. In addition, the supervisor must
provide a progress report outlining their accomplishments. Residents are still
expected to attend Academic Half Day Sessions, Pathology Grand Rounds, and any
other teaching sessions during the “research project rotation”.



_**The program outlined above is to be regarded as the minimum training
requirement. The Program Director and the CBD Committee may require the
resident to do additional training to ensure that clinical competences have
been achieved.**_





* * *

# Training Sites

Training in Hematological Pathology is distributed over two hospital sites in
Winnipeg, and one additional site including:

_**Hospital Sites:**_

  * Health Sciences Centre (HSC)
  * Saint Boniface Hospital (SBH)



_**Additional Site:**_

  * Canadian Blood Services (CBS)



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27374?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27374