#  University of Alberta - Neurology - Pediatric - Edmonton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 11, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Colin Wilbur  

Address Pediatric Neurology  
Edmonton Clinic Health Academy Room 4-466  
11405-87 Avenue  
Edmonton, AB T6G 1C9, Alberta, T6G 1C9  

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Pediatric Neurology Residency Program University of
Alberta ](https://www.ualberta.ca/pediatrics/pediatric-education-
programs/postgraduate-medical-education/neurology-residency-program.html)  
[ Pediatric Neurology - University of Alberta
](https://www.ualberta.ca/pediatrics/divisions/neurology.html)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Colin Wilbur

Title: Program Director

Email: wilbur@ualberta.ca

  

Name: Sheeraz Rahman

Title: Medical Education Program Coordinator

Email: pedneuro@ualberta.ca

  

* * *

# Return of Service

There are no return of service requirements at the University of Alberta.

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada

Language proficiency

Conditionally required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

Please see the Alberta [provincial
criteria.](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-match/eligibility-
criteria/alberta/)

International Medical Graduates (IMGs) are required to provide proof of
English language proficiency as determined by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

Canadian Medical Graduates (CMGs) who completed their medical education in
Quebec or at the University of Ottawa (French Stream) are required to provide
proof of English language proficiency as determined by the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA).

CMGs who completed their medical education at the University of Ottawa must
indicate on their application which stream they completed (either French or
English).

_For more information on the CPSA English language requirements, please visit
the  [CPSA website](https://cpsa.ca/physicians/registration/english-language-
proficiency/)._

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Please do not send more than three letters of reference. These letters should
be written by a faculty member who supervised the student. No late references
will be accepted.

Additional documents

Required

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.

  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  750

  

Your letter should outline your reasons for choosing Pediatric Neurology and
specifically at the University of Alberta. Your letter should give our
committee a better insight into who you are and your commitment to Pediatric
Neurology. Please limit your letter to 750 words.

Custom Résumé / CV

Please limit to 3 pages

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered



* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * February 4, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: **Edmonton Interview Date -  Tuesday,
February 4**  
  
**The social event will be the evening of Monday,  February 3**  
  
***Please note that interviews will be done virtually.**  
  
  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: Short-listed candidates will be
contacted to arrange interviews.  
  
Applicants will have approximately 3-4 interview stations each lasting 15-20
minutes. Interviews will be conducted by the Program Director, 3-4 additional
faculty members, and Pediatric Neurology resident representatives. Topics
covered will include the applicant's motivation for pursuing a career in
Pediatric Neurology, academic and research experience, communication and
teamwork skills, dealing with conflict and adversity, and wellness. Applicants
will be given ample opportunity to ask questions about the program, the
resident/faculty group, and life in Edmonton.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The program aims to select residents who have the passion, work ethic,
clinical skills, and interpersonal skills to contribute positively to our
program and to become an excellent pediatric neurologist. The following are
used to inform the selection process:

Acceptable academic record throughout the medical undergraduate program, as
evidenced by transcripts and MSPR.

Demonstrated interest in neurosciences and child health through education,
electives, research/publications, leadership positions, and personal letter. A
range of clinical elective experience, including Pediatric Neurology and
related disciplines, is encouraged. Evidence of research interest and
productivity is considered.

Three letters of reference from faculty members who have supervised the
applicant that speak to their clinical skills, cognitive skills, work ethic,
communication and interpersonal skills, and potential in pediatric neurology.

A positive personal interview demonstrating the applicant's communication,
interpersonal skills, maturity, empathy, and career goals which helps
determine their appropriateness for training in Pediatric Neurology and their
fit for our program.



## Program goals

The goal of our program is to graduate residents who are competent specialists
in pediatric neurology and who have the knowledge and skills to provide
effective patient-centered care.  We provide a broad range of clinical
experiences that give residents the ability to identify and foster their
individual career interests/goals. Graduates of our program have successfully
pursued careers in community-based practice, academic practice, and clinician-
scientist streams and we engage with our residents to promote their success in
whichever career pathway they choose.

The general objectives of the program are an expansion of the _Neurology
Competencies_ _  and Specialty Training Requirements in Neurology_ as approved
by the Education Committee of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Canada in 2020. A pediatric neurologist is involved in the diagnosis and
management of diseases involving the peripheral and central nervous systems.
This requires a firm understanding of neuroscience and neuroanatomy, knowledge
of neurologic disorders across the lifespan, an awareness of the impact of
systemic disorders on the nervous system, and the ability to communicate
effectively and empathetically with children and families. The program thus
provides a strong foundation in general pediatrics and pediatric
subspecialties relevant to neurology, followed by core neurology training that
includes exposure to a full range of neurology subspecialties.



## Selection process goals

The overall objective of the training program is to graduate a competent
pediatric neurologist who will effectively deliver care for children with
neurological disorders. Trainees must demonstrate sensitivity towards gender,
culture, and ethnicity in the clinical as well as research setting.

Attributes that will help an applicant be successful in our program include:

  *  Well-spoken with effective communication skills
  *  Keen learner
  *  Gentle and conscientious with children
  *  Collaborative, works well in a multi-disciplinary team
  *  Interest in the neurosciences 
  *  Research experience and interest
  *  Excellent evaluations from clinical preceptors demonstrating the above qualities

## File review process

Review team composition : All applications are reviewed by the Program
Director. The Program Director in discussion with the selection committee
(made up of representation from pediatric neurology faculty and residents)
decides which applicants will be selected for an interview.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  A strong interest in Pediatric Neurology and past experience that speaks to the potential for a career in Pediatric Neurology.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Demonstration of interest in pediatric neurology through related electives will be considered.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership experiences are evaluated for how they may demonstrate an applicant's organization, work ethic, and interpersonal skills.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  The applicant's overall performance during medical school, including an indication of clinical and interpersonal skills.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  The applicant's interest in Pediatric Neurology and the University of Alberta program specifically.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Written by someone who has closely supervised the applicant with comments on their clinical abilities, interpersonal and communication skills, work ethic and responsibility, and potential for a career in pediatric neurology.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Demonstration of research interest - specifically in neuroscience or child health - is beneficial   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Maintenance of satisfactory academic progress/standing.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Our program does not favour residents who do electives at our site or numerous
electives in our specialty. We consider and value applicants with broad
clinical experiences.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Ability to work in and contribute positively to a multidisciplinary team.   
Collegiality |  Ability to fit in with the resident group and someone who will contribute to the success of their colleagues.   
Communication skills |  Ability to communicate clearly and sensitively with children, family members, and other healthcare professionals.   
Health advocacy |  How this reflects an applicant's interest in pediatric neurology and career goals.   
Interest in the discipline |  A passion for pediatric neurology that will lead to success in residency and a career in pediatric neurology.   
Interest in the program |  Knowledge of our program, understanding of the city, and how matching to our program would fit for the applicant personally and professionally.   
Leadership skills |  How these inform an applicant's organization, work ethic, interpersonal skills, and career goals.   
Professionalism |  This is an expectation for all members of our team and so we look for applicants to demonstrate professionalism at all times.   
Scholarly activities |  How these reflect an applicant's interest in pediatric neurology, work ethic, problem solving, and career goals.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The University of Alberta Pediatric Neurology residency program is a Royal
College accredited program. We offer consultative services for a full range of
neurological disorders in children. The highlight of our program is its
people, with a large and diverse faculty group whose interests and expertise
span all subspecialties in neurology. Our faculty are engaged with our
residents and are passionate in providing teaching and mentorship (both
clinical and research). We have a close knit resident group who are supportive
of each other and welcoming to new team members. We also have close and
collegial relationships with the Adult Neurology and General Pediatrics
Programs who contribute to our residents' learning.

The University of Alberta offers exceptional training experiences. Our
inpatient service is the busiest pediatric subspecialty consult service and is
divided into a general neurology service that covers the inpatient ward and
emergency room, as well as a neurocritical care service that covers the
pediatric and neonatal intensive care units. We have a diverse array of
outpatient clinics including general pediatric neurology, a rapid access
clinic, epilepsy (including epilepsy surgery and ketogenic diet), headache,
neuromuscular disorders, autonomic disorders, neonatal neurology,
neurogenetics/neurodevelopment, neurocutaneous disorders, neuroinflammatory
disorders, movement disorders, and stroke. Training is available in
neurophysiology, including EEG and EMG, with exposure to pediatric
neurorehabilitation and multidisciplinary clinics at the Glenrose
Rehabilitation Hospital.

Our program fosters resident interest in research and supports residents to
pursue research to the degree that aligns with their interest and career
goals. We have a strong academic faculty group with research supervision and
mentorship available for residents in both clinical and basic science
research.

**Pediatric Neurology yearly activities and events:**

There are a number of fun and stimulating events available for residents to
participate in throughout the year including local conferences, interactive
workshops, a variety of rounds, and team-building activities. One of the
highlights is our in-person pediatric neurology resident retreat, where
residents have the opportunity to step away from their daily routines, engage
in reflective sessions, and strengthen their bonds with one another in a
relaxed and bucolic setting (typically in the Rocky Mountains). The retreat is
supported by pediatric neurology faculty and is always a great success,
fostering both personal growth and a sense of community within our program.
There are plenty of social activities happening in our department. For more
information, please visit our website.

**City of Edmonton & Attractions/Events:**

The City of Edmonton offers a great community to live in during residency.
There are many safe and affordable areas of the city to live in, including
many options for families. Edmonton's river valley is the largest urban park
in Canada and is conveniently accessed from the university or many of the
communities nearby. Edmonton is a festival city, with frequent events
throughout the year spanning arts, culture, music, and sports. There are
activities for any interest, including restaurants, theatre, shopping, and
outdoor recreation. There are many options for easy weekend escapes from the
city including lakes and camping nearby or Jasper National Park being only a
few hours away.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

**University of Alberta Pediatric Neurology Curriculum Summary**

Our program aligns with the Neurology Training Experiences as outlined by the
Royal College and is based on the Competence by Design framework. Each year
consists of 13 four-week blocks, with 4 weeks allocated for vacation. Most
rotations are located at the University of Alberta Hospital/Stollery
Children's Hospital site. The rotations for each year are as follows:



**Year 1**

  * Orientation (*fixed schedule - first week)
  * 2 Blocks Pediatric Neurology (*fixed schedule - 1st Block)
  * 1 Block NICU (RAH)
  * 1 Block CTU Purple JR
  * 1 Block CTU Orange JR
  * 1 Block Night Float JR
  * 1 Block Pediatric Emergency Medicine
  * 1 Block Pediatric Mental Health
  * 1 Block Developmental Pediatrics JR (GRH)
  * 1 Block Pediatric Neurosurgery
  * 1 Block Pediatric Hematology-Oncology
  * 1 Block Selective (1 of: Cardiology, Rheumatology, Endocrinology, Infectious Disease)
  * 1 Block Vacation



**Year 2**

  * 4-5 Blocks Pediatric Neurology
  * 6 Weeks PICU/2 Weeks PCICU
  * 1 Block Pediatric Neurology Clinic
  * 1 Block EEG/Epilepsy
  * 2 Blocks Adult Neurology (4 weeks in General Neurology, 2 weeks on Stroke Wards, and 2 weeks in Consultative Neurology)
  * 1 Block Metabolics/Genetics
  * 1 Block Pediatric Physiatry (GRH)
  * 1 Block Research



**Year 3**

  * 4-6 Blocks Pediatric Neurology
  * 1 Block Pediatric Neurology Clinic
  * 1 Block EEG/Epilepsy
  * 2 Blocks Adult Neurology (4 weeks in General Neurology, 2 weeks on Stroke Wards, and 2 weeks in Consultative Neurology)
  * 1/2 Block Pediatric Neuroradiology (2 weeks pediatric MRI)
  * 1 Block Neuromuscular (2nd half of year)
  * 1 Block Call-Protected Elective
  * 1-2 Blocks Elective in the following areas: Clinic, Epilepsy, Movement Disorders, Stroke, Multiple Sclerosis, Neuro-ophthalmology, and Research
  * 1-6 Blocks Research (over all 5 years)



**Year 4**

  * 4-6 Blocks Pediatric Neurology
  * 1 Block Pediatric Neurology Clinic
  * 1 Block in Adult Neurology (2 weeks in Hyperacute stroke (no acute stroke overnight call; adult neurology call only), and 2 weeks Outpatient Clinic (no call)
  * 1 Block Multiple Sclerosis
  * 1 Block Pediatric Palliative Care
  * 1/2 Block Neuroradiology
  * 1 Block Neuropathology
  * 1 Block Call-Protected Elective
  * 2-4 Blocks Elective or Neurology Subspecialty clinic including Epilepsy, Movement Disorders, Stroke, Multiple Sclerosis, Neuro-ophthalmology, Research, and Neurology Clinics
  * 1-6 Blocks Research (over all 5 years)



**Year 5 (Transition to Practice)**

  * 1.5 Blocks Pediatric Neurology (Senior Resident)
  * 1.5 Blocks Pediatric Neurology (Junior Attending)
  * 1 Block NCCS (Junior Attending)
  * 3 Blocks Pediatric Neurology Clinics
  * 1 Block Call-Protected Elective
  * 5 Blocks Elective or Neurology Subspecialty clinic including Epilepsy, Movement Disorders, Stroke, Multiple Sclerosis, Neuro-ophthalmology, Neuromuscular, and Research
  * 1-6 Blocks Research (over all 5 years)





**Academic Half-Day and Seminars**

During their first 6 months of training, residents attend the General
Pediatrics Academic Half-Day. For the remainder of training, residents
participate in the joint Neurology Academic Half-Day. Residents are protected
from all other duties in order to attend half-day.



There are numerous other rounds and teaching sessions that residents are
encouraged to attend, including: pediatric neurology case rounds, pediatric
neurocritical care rounds, epilepsy surgery rounds, EEG rounds, movement
disorder rounds, stroke rounds, neuroscience grand rounds, and pediatrics
grand rounds.



Pediatric neurology journal club is scheduled quarterly.



**Research**

Pediatric Neurology residents are expected to actively participate in
research, although the degree of commitment expected varies by resident
interest. The research curriculum includes an online research information
session within their first year of training. Subsequently the resident will
have 1-6 blocks of protected research time to complete a project (or multiple
projects) of their choice under the supervision of a faculty member. All
projects are reviewed by representatives of the Pediatric Neurology Residency
Program Committee.  Residents will be encouraged and financially supported to
present their project locally, nationally or internationally. The minimum
expectation is that residents will complete at least one scholarly project and
present their work at one conference.



**Resident Continuity Clinic**

Pediatric Neurology residents participate in a longitudinal resident clinic
starting in their second year of training until completion of the program.
Residents will be assigned to see new general neurology outpatient referrals,
as well as be able to follow-up patients they saw on the inpatient service.
Residents are supported in overseeing all aspects of their patients' care
including assessment and plan, counselling, and parent phone calls.



**Electives**

Elective blocks are included in each year from PGY3 - PGY5. Residents are
encouraged to select elective experiences that align with their own career
goals and learning needs. Electives may include pediatric or adult neurology
subspecialty clinics, related electives in other disciplines (e.g. neuro-
ophthalmology, neuropathology), neurology inpatient rotations, additional
neurophysiology training, community neurology, or research. One elective block
each year is designated as call-protected, and so can be used for an elective
rotation at a different institution (either within Canada or internationally).





* * *

# Training Sites

The Stollery Children's Hospital is a full service pediatric hospital located
within the University of Alberta Hospital's Walter Mackenzie Centre, with
satellite facilities at the Royal Alexandra Hospital (Level 3 Neonatal
Intensive Care Unit, Child Psychiatry Inpatient Unit) and Glenrose
Rehabilitation Hospital. The Stollery has the largest geographic catchment
area of any children's hospital in Canada, extending from central Alberta
north to the Northwest Territories and parts of Nunavut. It also provides
cardiac transplantation services for much of western Canada. The position of
the Stollery within the larger University of Alberta Hospital provides for
additional collaborative learning and research opportunities across
disciplines. Neurophysiology, neuroimaging, and neuropathological services are
also located at the site.

There is now a unified electronic medical record across all training sites,
providing an efficient tool for clinical care, charting, and communication.
Computer access is available on all patient care units. Residents are also
provided access to the pediatrics resident lounge and workspace in the
Department of Pediatrics located on the 3rd floor of the Edmonton Clinic
Health Academy.  The Health Sciences Library is located within the hospital
with an extensive book and journal collection.

Opportunities for electives at other institutions are also provided to our
trainees, based on their career goals and learning needs.



Our group of pediatric neurologists includes specialists and subspecialty
clinics in pediatric epilepsy (including epilepsy surgery and ketogenic diet),
headache, neuromuscular disorders, neuroinflammatory disorders,  stroke,
neonatal neurology, neurodevelopment/neurogenetics, autonomic disorders,
Neurocutaneous disorders, and movement disorders. Residents of our program are
exposed to a wide variety of subspecialty pediatric neurology clinics on a
regular and frequent basis throughout their residency.

The ratio of residents to faculty is approximately 1:2.



* * *

# Additional Information

**CaRMS Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ)**



The University of Alberta recognizes the importance of diversity, equity,
inclusivity, decolonization, and indigenization (EDIDI) and is committed to
the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry’s policy on anti-racism.

Further, the University is committed to implementing the Truth and
Reconciliation Commission calls to action that are relevant to education and
medicine.The pursuit of diversity and equitable opportunities is a core value
that guides our selection practices.

The University encourages applications from underrepresented groups, including
Indigenous persons, persons with a disability, racialized persons, women,
persons of a minority gender identity or sexual orientation, and individuals
who would contribute to the diversity of the medical community. The CaRMS
Self-Identification Questionnaire (CSIQ) is an optional form that candidates
can fill out.

Our program is currently not using the CSIQ as part of our application
process. We are using other methods to ensure mitigation of bias and equitable
opportunities for all applicants.

* * *

# FAQ

**_What are the best things about this sub-specialty?_**

Pediatric Neurology is always interesting and challenging. It is a privilege
to be able to support children and families with neurological disorders
through circumstances that can be very difficult. While historically treatment
for many neurological disorders have been limited, there have been rapid
advances in our understanding of the brain and brain function with increasing
opportunities for treatment (e.g. epilepsy, migraine, neuroinflammatory, and
neuromuscular disorders).



**_What are the varieties of lifestyles within your field?_**

Within Pediatric Neurology there are many ways in which physicians can further
individualize their career based on their interests. This includes numerous
clinical subspecialties, neurophysiology training, leadership opportunities,
health advocacy, research (clinical or basic science), and education. Most
pediatric neurologists in Canada have an academic position (i.e. associated
with a university)and have multiple responsibilities with the time dedicated
to each varying between neurologists.  These responsibilities include
inpatient and ambulatory care, teaching, research and administrative duties.
Most practice in a group with shared call responsibilities. Call is typically
from home (i.e. do not need to be in hospital overnight).

An increasing number of graduates are choosing to practice neurology in the
community (i.e. private practice), with an emphasis on clinical care and
greater flexibility in building their private practice.



**_What are the best things about your program?_  **

The best part of our program is the people, with a collegial group and a
positive working environment (including our faculty, residents, nursing, and
administrative staff). We benefit from a large and diverse group of
neurologists with subspecialty interests spanning the entire spectrum of
Pediatric Neurology. Additionally, we benefit from close relationships with
our adult neurology and pediatrics colleagues.

Our residents participate in numerous teaching sessions including academic
half-day, interdisciplinary rounds, journal club, continuity clinic, and
bedside teaching

For interested residents, there is support to complete research projects
(clinical or basic science) under the direction of experienced mentors.



**_What is it like  to live in Edmonton?_**

Edmonton has all the amenities of a large city along with a strong sense of
community. It is a festival city and there are many events to make the most of
our bright summers and enjoy the winter. A vibrant arts scene, lots of good
restaurant options, and easy access to outdoor activities provide many ways to
enjoy your time outside of work.

For more information and a list of many affordable and unique things to do in
Edmonton please click on the following
[link](https://www.edmonton.ca/attractions-events "City of Edmonton
Attractions and Events").

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26812?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26812