#  University of Calgary - Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology - Calgary  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 05, 2024

## Approximate Quota: 2

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Davinder Sidhu  
Dr. Yijie Robby Wang  

Address Pathology and Laboratory Medicine  
Diagnostic and Scientific Centre  
9, 3535 Research Road NW  
Calgary , Alberta, T2L 2K8  

Work  (403) 944-6626

Fax

Websites of Interest [ University of Calgary General Pathology
](https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/node/345761)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

General Information: Residency Program Director

Name: Dr. Davinder Sidhu

Title: Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology Residency Program Director

Email: Davinder.Sidhu@albertaprecisionlabs.ca

Phone: 403-944-6626

  

General Information: Residency Program Administrator

Name: Anna Thomas

Title: Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology Residency Program Administrator

Email: anna.thomas@aplabs.ca

Phone: 403-770-3447

  

* * *

# Important Information

Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology Program formally started CBD in July 2019
and all incoming residents will be trained under the new curriculum.

All interviews will take place virtually using Zoom in the 2024 cycle.

Our training Program is fully accredited by the Royal College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Canada.

Only applications from Canadian medical graduates will be considered.









* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of landing in Canada  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Record of Landing: When there is a Canadian Permanent Residence submitted, it
must be accompanied by the Record of Landing, clearly showing the date of
landing in Canada.

Language proficiency

Optional - will be reviewed

Submit one of the following documents to verify your language proficiency:  
• IELTS  
• Occupational English Test (OET) - Medicine  
• Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) - General

IELTS, OET or CELPIP is required by CPSA for candidates from medical schools
in Quebec except for candidates from McGill and for IMG candidates.  Please
check CPSA <https://cpsa.ca/> for ELP updates.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Should be written by staff physicians or faculty. Late submissions will not be
accepted.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  500

  

Please include an outline of your career plans and reasons for choosing
general pathology. 500 word maximum

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 23, 2025
  * January 24, 2025

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The program administrator will
contact all candidates to arrange for interviews. Applicants are encouraged to
confirm interviews as early as possible.  Interview dates: January 23 and 24,
2025. Telephone interviews are permitted.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

-an acceptable academic record which demonstrates special proficiency in those subjects related to the specialty



## Program goals

The Mission of the University of Calgary Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology
program is to train the best AP/CP laboratory physicians so that they have the
skills to manage the smallest regional hospital all the way up to the largest
multinational laboratory. Calgary is one of only a few sites in the country
where all components of laboratory testing in both AP and CP, Quality
Assurance, Informatics, Laboratory Management and Research are conducted at a
single institution, making it ideal to train the best AP/CP physicians in the
country.

## Selection process goals

Applicants must be self directed learners capable of mastering a multitude of
subject matters. The key to a great general practicioner in the laboratory is
not just your knowledge base but also your capacity to adapt to new and
unfamiliar problems and to be able to research and expand your understanding
of testing across all areas of the laboratory. Successful Diagnostic and
Clinical Pathology Residents are able to move across a variety of laboratory
fields, comprehend a variety of laboratory methods and apply clinical medical
expertise to any situation so that the can aid our clinical colleges in
selecting the the "right test for the right patient at the right time".

## File review process

Review team composition : The Program Director  
The CBD Competence Committee Chair  
The RTC and CBD Committee Members  
The Senior and Junior Chief Residents  

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  Educational Background and Experiences   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Elective experiences were severely limited during the COVID-19 pandemic, we will not be considering electives in file review to ensure file review is fair and equitable for all candidates.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Evidence of Good Standing   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Interesting Skills   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Committee work and volunteer work   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  We do not evaluate this file component   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Evidence of interest and in the lab   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Evidence of work ethic, enthusiasm and professionalism   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Research Experience and Subject matter   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Evidence of Good Standing   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We will not be considering electives in the file review
to ensure file review is fair and equitable for all candidates.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

_If Elective experiences were limited due to the COVID-19 pandemic during
training, we will not be considering electives in file review to ensure file
review is fair and equitable for all candidates._

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We do not re-schedule interviews for applicants after we have completed the
scheduling process.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Evidence of Group Work in research, committees etc   
Collegiality |  Evaluate reference letters and materials for traits and provide MMI scenarios for assessment   
Communication skills |  Evaluate submitted written materials and provide MMI scenarios for assessment   
Health advocacy |  Evaluate submitted written materials   
Interest in the discipline |  Evaluate submitted written materials and provide MMI scenarios for assessment   
Interest in the program |  Elective experiences were severely limited due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we will not be considering electives in file review to ensure file review is fair and equitable for all candidates.   
Leadership skills |  Evaluate submitted written materials and provide MMI scenarios for assessment   
Professionalism |  Evaluate reference letters and materials for traits and provide MMI scenarios for assessment   
Scholarly activities |  We do not evaluate this interview component" into the criteria field.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

The Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology Residency training Program at the
University of Calgary is a dynamic new program with extensive involvement and
teaching by practicing Clinical pathologists.  Our goals are to train Clinical
pathologists for both community hospitals and leadership positions.

Key features of the program include:

Community Laboratory Longitudinal Laboratory Management Experience;

Laboratory management is a key aspect of Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology
training. However programs may struggle to provide residents with adequate
opportunities for learning, particularly with hands-on examples of problems.
Our goal is to provide residents with an extensive practical management
experience through a long term attachment to a rural hospital near Calgary.
During the Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology Mentorship Block rotation,
residents will be assigned to one of the eight rural hospital laboratories
managed by Alberta Precision Laboratories. Under the mentorship of the
Director of Rural Laboratories, this laboratory will then become the
responsibility of the resident for their Core and Transition to Practice
Stages of Training. The resident is expected to familiarize themselves with
the test menus of that laboratory and to work with the Director of Rural
Laboratories (also a clinical pathologist) to handle technical and management
problems as they arise, and to oversee quality assurance activities. It is
recognized that the ability of residents to interact with their laboratories
will vary according to the rotation they are doing. For example, during the
second year surgical pathology rotations, opportunities may be very limited.
However, during chemistry and elective rotations, opportunity will exist for
more extensive interaction. The resident will also become familiar with the
family physicians working in their assigned hospital and by the end of their
residency will have become a medical resource to those physicians.

Pathology Informatics:

A unique strength of our program is the emphasis on pathology informatics. Our
Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology Division has several members with active
interests in pathology informatics. In 2010, we began offering an elective for
laboratory medicine residents in pathology informatics (the only one in
Canada). With a catchment population of close to 1.4 million people on a
common LIS and 25 million reported tests per year, our training environment
offers tremendous opportunities for research.

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

Please see "Program Highlights" for additional information

**Curriculum**

Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology is currently training residents through
competency-based medical education in accordance with the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada's Competence by Design (CBD) initiative. The
curriculum is divided into four Stages of Training: Transition to Discipline,
Foundations, Core, and Transition to Practice. The duration of training is
expected to be 5 years for most trainees.

  
  

**Training Sites**

Clinical rotations in the Foundations Stage (year 1) will be primarily at
Rocky View General Hospital in Calgary, AB.

Rotations in pathology and laboratory medicine (years 2 to 5) will be
primarily at Foothills Medical Centre, Alberta Children's Hospital and Alberta
Precision Laboratories' Diagnostic and Scientific Centre in Calgary, AB.

**Community Electives**

Senior residents may take an elective at one of our rural and community
training sites including Whitehorse General Hospital (Whitehorse, Yukon
Territory), Red Deer Regional Hospital (Red Deer, Alberta), Chinook Regional
Hospital (Lethbridge, Alberta), and Medicine Hat Regional Hospital (Medicine
Hat, Alberta). Financial support is available for travel and accommodations.

**Research**

Diagnostic and Clinical pathology residents are expected to complete one
research project during their residency, although additional research activity
is supported.   The diagnostic and clinical pathology faculty has a strong
interest in pathology informatics and so research in this area is especially
encouraged.

The University of Calgary and Alberta Precision Laboratories cover travel
expenses for residents presenting research. Most residents present at our
annual residents' research day, with judging and awards provided for by an
endowed fund. Residents all attend the Banff Conference in Diagnostic and
Molecular Pathology which brings international experts in the field to Banff.
Almost all residents attend at least one conference a year to present original
research.

There is a research coordinator for resident research. The research project
may take the form of basic or clinical research. The RTC closely monitors the
manpower required for the project to ensure that residents do not take on too
many projects. Our department has special funds available for resident
research including money earmarked for biostatistical support.

  
  

**Didactic schedule**

Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology residents have the opportunity to attend
academic half days offered by the University of Calgary Residency and
Fellowship training programs in Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology, Medical
Microbiology, and Clinical Chemistry. In addition, the monthly Diagnostic and
Clinical  Pathology academic half day covers topics uniquely relevant to
Clinical Pathology and community practice. The Diagnostic and Clinical
Pathology On Call Review Rounds uses a problem based and interactive approach
to prepare residents to handle issues encountered on Clinical Chemistry,
Hematopathology, Medical Microbiology, and Transfusion medicine on call
services. Residents are exempt from work commitments during academic half
days.

  
  

**Evaluation**

Within the Competence by Design curriculum, evaluations are completed after
observing residents complete specific tasks or Entrustable Professional
Activities (EPAs), which are key skills required for Diagnostic and Clinical
Pathology practice. These evaluations are supplemented by global, narrative
feedback after completion of certain rotations. Residents are assigned an
academic advisor, a staff pathologist, to act as a mentor through the Stages
of Training. Beginning in their second year, all residents take two exams per
year mimicking the fellowship exam by the RCPSC. Resident evaluations and
promotions are overseen by the Competence Committee and Residency Training
Committee.

  
  



**Transition to Discipline  **

Expected duration: Two blocks (1 block = 4 weeks)

Transition to Discipline consists of an introductory block designed to cover
basic anatomical pathology content such as microscopy skills, basic pathology
specimen handling, normal histology, clinicopathologic correlation, and
creation of a personal teaching and learning plan. This block includes time
with Medical Microbiology, Clinical Chemistry, and Hematopathology.





**Foundations**

Expected Duration: 12-14 months

The Foundations Stage of Training includes both clinical rotations and basic
training in Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology with a focus on Diagnostic and
Molecular Pathology.  The clinical rotations are designed to provide exposure
to medical and surgical services that rely heavily on the pathology
laboratory. Clinical rotations commonly include:  

 Clinical Rotations

Rotation | Expected duration  
---|---  
Infectious Diseases | 1 block  
Medical Oncology | 1 block  
Hematology | 1 block  
Pediatric oncology/hematology | 1 block  
Gyne/Oncology | 1 block  
  |    
  |    
  |    
  
The Laboratory Medicine rotations begin with one anatomy and histology block
as well as two lab medicine "Bootcamp" blocks with a focus on Diagnostic and
Molecular pathology at Foothills Medical Centre. These blocks teach residents
the foundational skills that they need for success as junior residents.

**Core of Discipline**

Expected duration: 36 months

The core stage contains the bulk of diagnostic and clinical pathology training
and includes rotations in Surgical Pathology, Autopsy Pathology, Cytology,
Forensics, Pediatric Pathology, Clinical Chemistry, Hematopathology, Medical
Microbiology, and Transfusion Medicine. Our program also includes a generous
amount of elective time throughout the curriculum that allows residents to
complete research, explore areas of interest, and pursue potential fellowship
or job opportunities. The Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons Fellowship
Examination in Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology is completed by the fall of
fifth year to allow nine months of transition to practice at the end residency
that are free from exam preparation responsibilities.  

**Transition to Practice**

Expected duration: 9 months

This stage provides residents with an opportunity to function as "junior
staff" across all the laboratory disciplines. There is a focus on leading,
implementing, and advocating for quality assurance practices. Additional
elective blocks allow residents to explore areas of interest and employment
opportunities.  



  


* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

\- Diagnostic and Scientific Centre (DSC \- main laboratory for out-patient
specimens)

-Foothills Medical Centre (FMC)

-Alberta Children's Hospital (ACH)

-Peter Lougheed Centre (PLC)

-Rockyview General Hospital (RGH)

-South Health Campus (SHC)

-Medical Examiner's Office

-12 additional community/rural laboratories provide extensive opportunity for management training

-Community hospital rotations are taken at Red Deer Regional Hospital in Red Deer, AB 

The University of Calgary Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology Residency Training
Program is the first new Clinical Pathology training program in Canada in a
number of years.  Through our co-sponsorship with Alberta Precision
Laboratories, we are able to offer an innovative training environment with an
emphasis on laboratory management and pathology informatics.

Alberta Precision Laboratories features the only academic Clinical Pathology
Division in Canada, currently made up of 14 clinical pathologists, clinical
chemists, and AP/CP trained pathologists practicing clinical pathology in an
urban academic environment.  This provides residents with key teaching and
mentorship experience in Clinical Pathology throughout their 5 years of
training. Our Diagnostic and Clinical Pathology Division group also provides
medical leadership to 4 urgent care laboratories in Calgary and surrounding
areas as well as 8 rural hospital laboratories in Southern Alberta.

Residents also benefit from our close association with the highly successful
University of Calgary Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology Residency Training
Program, Medical Microbiology Residency Training Program, and Clinical
Chemistry Fellowship Training Program as well as our large group of
approximately 90 pathologists and laboratory scientists.





Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26946?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26946