#  McGill University - Neurosurgery - Montreal

#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
Regular Stream for All  

##  Last approved on September 10, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Carlo Santaguida  

Address Neurosurgery  
Montreal Neurological Hospital & Institute  
3801 University Street, Room 109  
Montreal , Quebec, H3A 2B4  

Work  (514) 398-1935

Fax

Websites of Interest [ McGill Post Graduate Medical Education.
](http://www.med.mcgill.ca/postgrad/)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Dr. Carlo Santaguida

Title: Director

Email: carlo.santaguida@mcgill.ca

Phone: (514) 398-1935

  

Name: Sherisse Seale

Title: Coordinator, Neurosurgery Training Program

Email: residency.neurosurgery@mcgill.ca

Phone: (514) 398-1935

  

* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: Either English or French

We are pleased to accept applications in French or English, including
supporting documentation such as letters of reference.

Candidates selected for interview will also have the opportunity to
participate in either language, at their discretion.

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)

PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP must be submitted with each application.  
EITHER:

  * A copy of Canadian Birth Certificate or a copy of Certificate of Canadian Citizenship

OR

  * A copy of Permanent Resident Card (copy of both sides of the card) OR a copy of an IMM 5292, IMM 1000, IMM 5688;   
NB: the Permanent Resident card can be expired.

OR

  * A copy of Citizenship Card (copy of both sides of the card)

P.S: the passport is not an acceptable proof of citizenship.

Each year, all candidates applying in a CaRMS match must provide proof of
valid current citizenship or permanent resident status. As of the 2021 R-1
match cycle, CaRMS is partnering with third-party organizations to automate
the citizenship/legal status verification, which is usually completed by
Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) offices.

if an applicant has had their citizenship/legal status documentation verified
by any of the following organizations for the current R-1 match, the applicant
will not be required to assign a proof of citizenship/PR document (as pictured
in the screenshot below).

  * Medical Council of Canada ([MCC](https://mcc.ca/))
  * British Columbia's Clinical Assessment Program ([BC-CAP](https://imgbc.med.ubc.ca/clinical-assessment/))
  * Bureau de cooperation interuniversitaire ([BCI](https://www.bci-qc.ca/en/))
  * Alberta International Medical Graduate Program ([AIMG](https://www.aimg.ca/))

For further information, please check the following link on CaRMS:
[https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-
citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360049869752-What-is-the-citizenship-legal-status-
verification-?utm_campaign=714f635f55-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_11_26_06_54&utm_medium=email&utm_source=2021+PGME+%26+Program+Communique+Recipients&utm_term=0_33cf2d87fd-714f635f55-)

Examinations

Additional required IMG documents

NAC

* Score and document(s)

* NAC examination - Statement of results
* NAC examination - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the NAC exam, please include the statement of results and
supplemental information report in your application. The MCCQE Part II or
Certificate of Registration of the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada
(LMCC) is accepted in place of the NAC Examination.

MCCQE Part I

* Score and document(s)

* MCCQE Part I - Statement of Results
* MCCQE Part I - Supplemental Information Report

If you have taken the MCCQE Part I exam, please include the statement of
results and supplemental information report in your application.

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

At least three letters of reference are required. Some must be from staff,
some may be from senior residents. Late references will be accepted until the
end of December.

Additional documents

Required

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
  
For International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates, you can
[submit your MSPR](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115004153223-My-school-does-not-issue-MSPRs-What-should-I-do-)
through either of the methods below:

  1. Upload your MSPR directly into your CaRMS Online account; or
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your MSPR through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account.

If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

A personal letter should include the explanation of academic background and
how it may be particularly suited for neurosurgery and future career goals. A
statement regarding the motivation for applying to McGill neurosurgery program
is strongly recommended.

Additional required IMG documents

Lettre de reconnaissance de l'équivalence du diplôme MD

Please provide the results of the exams that permitted you to have your
medical degree recognized and approved by the CMQ.

Graduates with the diploma of doctor of osteopathy awarded by a school of
osteopathic medicine situated in the United States providing that the school
is accredited by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the
American Osteopathic Association do not have to obtain the recognition of the
equivalence of the medical diploma by the CMQ. These graduates do not require
the MCCQE Part I, the National Assessment Collaboration (NAC), or the
Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada (LMCC) in order to apply.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

File reviews will be performed by the program director and members of the
residency selection / interview committee. These members will be
representatives of the teaching faculty and our current residents in training.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 29, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interview date is  January 29, 2025 as
marked on calendar above.  
  
There will be a virtual evening social on January 28, 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The office of the program director
will contact the residents to plan for individual interviews. Students are
interviewed by members of the Neurosurgery Residency Selection Committee, a
subcommittee of the Residency training program.  
  
  
  
Interviewers will be both members of the faculty and residents currently
training in our program, and include the program director.  Usually we will
have candidates meet 4 groups of 2 interviewers each (one resident and one
faculty) for a period of 15-30 minutes per session.  All interviews will be
via videoconference.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

The residency training program in Neurosurgery at McGill University aims to
train highly qualified Canadian and international medical graduates to become
highly skilled independent practitioners of academic neurosurgery, and basis
for our graduates to become leaders in the clinical and research domains
associated with the specialty.

Specifically we aim to ensure our residents

            Receive a complete training in all of the fundamentals or neurosurgery

            Have an early and wide exposure to areas of subspecialty and advanced practice in neurosurgery

            Successfully obtain qualifications in neurosurgery from the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada

            Practice medicine based on the concepts set out in the Royal College CANMEDS 2015 framework

            Are responsible to the standards of practice set out by the College des Medecins du Quebec

            Understand the principles and practice of academic research and are given opportunities to further their research skills and training

            Are given training to allow them to move forward as leaders and educators in neurosurgery around the Globe

## Program goals

Residents must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and attitudes relating to
gender, culture and ethnicity pertinent to Neurosurgery.  In addition, all
residents must demonstrate an ability to incorporate gender, culture and
ethnic perspectives in research methodology, data presentation and analysis.

On completion of the education program, the graduate physician will be
competent to function as a consultant in Neurosurgery

The resident must be well grounded in the general principles of both
Neurosurgery and surgery in general.  Thus, the fully-trained resident must
demonstrate proficiency and expertise in the care of neurosurgical
emergencies, the principles of pre- and post- operative general surgical care,
the treatment of  deep vein thrombosis, the management of fluid and
electrolyte disturbances, the treatment of sepsis, the use of antibiotic
therapy and an understanding of the implications of antibiotic prophylaxis,
the understanding of vascular shock and its treatment, an understanding of the
diagnostic importance of disordered blood gas analyses and their treatment,
and the longitudinal (acute, sub acute and chronic) management of parenteral
nutritional support.

In addition to satisfactory knowledge, clinical ability, and surgical skill as
these apply to surgical diseases of the nervous system, the resident will be
expected to have shown familiarity with, and knowledge of, the related
disciplines of basic neuroscience, neurology, neuropathology, neuroimaging,
and neuropsychology.

Residents must demonstrate a detailed knowledge of the normal structure and
function of the nervous system and of the pathological processes that derange
it.  They must demonstrate the diagnostic skills to identify congenital and
acquired abnormalities, trauma, and ethical and effective patient care.  They
must develop learning strategies to enhance their knowledge and expertise so
as to maintain excellent and current standards of care.  They must become
effective neurosurgical consultants with respect to patient care, education of
colleagues and the provision of medical legal opinions.  Our program also
highly encourages our graduates to pursue formal research training during
their residency.

Finally, and most important, the resident is expected to demonstrate
unequivocal high moral and ethical behavior.

## Selection process goals

Successful applcants to our program will show a strong interest in clinical
neurosurgery, will work well with their colleagues, and will show a strong
interest in academic medicine and research.

The selection process aims to identify candidates that would be successful in
the obtainment of the goals of our program as elucidated above.

Ability to speak French is a significant asset but not essential for
acceptance.  

## File review process

Review team composition : The selection committee is composed of the Program
Director, Program Administrator, and a roughly equal number of teaching
faculty and residents.

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 0 - 50  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We are interested in candidates academic and personal accomplishments. A wide variety of experiences are valued.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Some electives in neurosurgery are encouraged to demonstrate that candidates have a functional knowledge of the specialty and residency training to which they are applying though it is not necessary that they occurred at our centre.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  Standardized exam results such as MCCQE are considered to some extent.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  We are interested in a wide variety of extra-curricular experiences, and are always pleased to have candidates with diverse interests.   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Leadership skills are valued particularly as it relates to the potential to improve our residency program.   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  The Dean's letters are considered.   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Personal letters are considered as an attempt to understand motivation towards our specialty   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Reference letters are important as a guide to how candidates work with others, as an objective assessment of clinical skills, and as a substitute for electives in our centre.   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  A strong interest in academic medicine is encouraged and it is important to have an understanding of what research entails and how it will be integrated into a candidates future training and practice.   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  A successful candidate will have demonstrated a facility with formal evaluations of performance and academic knowledge.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We encourage applicants to have completed at least one
elective in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

Given the current restricions in travel and elective availabiiity there is no
preference for candidates who have done electives at our institution.
However, it is preferred that candidates have an elective experience that
demonstrates that they understand what the 6 year training program in
neurosurgery will entail.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  An attempt is always made to determine how well candidates work with their colleagues.   
Collegiality |  It is important to have a candidate with good interpersonal skills, who will interact well with patients and staff.   
Communication skills |  Ability to communicate clearly is definitely considered in the interview. Communication skills in french are a bonus but not a requirement.   
Health advocacy |  We are always interested in candidates experience in this area though we recognize that variable experience will exist in applicants.   
Interest in the discipline |  Clear interest and understanding of neurosurgery as a specialty is required.   
Interest in the program |  Interest in the specifics of our program is desired but not required.   
Leadership skills |  Leadership skills are definitely a benefit as we would prefer candidates who will bring positive changes to our program during their time with us.   
Professionalism |  Interviewers do attempt to gauge the abilities of the candidates to demonstrate or understand issues of professionalism.   
Scholarly activities |  Scholarly activities commensurate will the stage of education of the applicant will be considered. It is understood that different applicants will have had differing exposure to research and publication opportunities.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

Specifically, we may consider:  
Social interaction during program related events  
Communication with program administration  
Social media  
Unsolicited reference letters  
Unsolicited email references  
Unsolicited verbal information on a candidate's prior performance  
Unsolicited feedback from colleagues and co-workers  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

Residents in our program should have an exposure to a wide breadth of
neurosurgical clinical activities representing the practice of neurosurgery in
Canada.  Our teaching faculty is large and diverse across the neurosurgery
subspecialties.   Operative exposure should begin early and be consistent
throughout training.

Formal teaching is a priority, and will take precedence over clinical duties.



Residents are encouraged to pursue academic interests, including 1 full year
of research training.  They offered the opportunity to take a leave of absence
and enter the Graduate Program for a master or doctorate degree or enrol in
the CIP program to support their research goals.    There is a large variety
of world class, neuroscience related research laboratories and graduate
programs available at our institution.

  

The program helps also aims to faciliate access to fellowships abroad or
faculty  positions for graduating residents.





* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 6 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

This residency program is 6 years, consistent with the Royal College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Canada guidelines.



Curriculum  
  

The residency program is under the direction of the Division of Neurosurgery
of McGill University. It is an integrated program with the main location being
at the MNH-MNI. Residents rotate through the neurosurgical services at the
MGH, MCH and JGH for sessions of three to six months.  Training is now
entirely based on the CBD model of the RCPSC.

The length of the program may depend on the individual resident's goals with
respect to research training of further graduate degrees.  Participation in
research programs for qualified and interested residents is encouraged during
their training. Selected candidates may register for graduate degrees with the
approval of the head of the laboratory and the program director.



The academic program includes protected academic half days which include
weekly Grand Rounds and a didactic lecture series, morbidity and mortality
rounds as well as weekly indication rounds, a neuropathology and a
neuroradiology session monthly and journal club as well as chapter reviews
monthly. In-training written examinations occur 2 times a year and formal
Royal College type mock oral exams twice a year.

  
  



**PGY 1** : 3 blocks of critical care, 2 blocks of vascular surgery, 1 block
of emergency medicine (at a trauma centre) and 7 blocks of neurosurgery.

**PGY 2** : 2 blocks of Neurology, 2 blocks of Radiology, 9 blocks of
neurosurgery (including spine trauma and cranial neurotrauma), Surgical
Foundations examination in Fall of PGY-2

**PGY-3  **13 blocks of neurosurgery, including rotations at the Jewish
General Hospital for skull base and spine surgery, at the Montreal Children's
Hospital for pediatrics, and at the Montreal Neurologic Hospital with rotation
for vascular, skull base, neuro-oncology, functional neurosurgery and
epilepsy, peripheral nerve, and spine surgery  
  

**PGY-4**   Participation in Research Program for qualified and interested
residents is encouraged during the course of training. Selected residents may
register for graduate degrees with the approval of the head of the laboratory
and the Program Director.  they can also register to the clinical investigator
program (CIP) of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons.  The first year
of research is part of the residency training and this can be extended to two
further years to obain a degree, or other clinical rotation in a neuroscience
related discipline



**PGY-5** up to 13 blocks of neurosurgery, including rotations at the Jewish
General Hospital for skull base and spine surgery, at the Montreal Children's
Hospital for pediatrics, and at the Montreal Neurologic Hospital with rotation
for vascular, skull base, neuro-oncology, functional neurosurgery and
epilepsy, peripheral nerve, and spine surgery, and possibly elective blocks
depending on the resident's goals of training.  Written Royal College
examination in neurosurgery in Fall of PGY-5



**PGY-6**  ** ** up to 10** ** blocks of neurosurgery, including rotations at
the Jewish General Hospital for skull base and spine surgery, at the Montreal
Children's Hospital for pediatrics, and at the Montreal Neurologic Hospital
with rotation for vascular, skull base, neuro-oncology, functional
neurosurgery and epilepsy, peripheral nerve, and spine surgery, and possibly
elective blocks depending on the resident's goals of training,  3 blocks of
neuropathology.  Oral component of the Royal College examination in
neurosurgery in Spring of PGY-6.



Chief residency has usually been scheduled for the year from mid PGY5 to mid
PGY6.







* * *

# Training Sites

Resources

-Montreal Neurological Hospital & Institute (MNH-MNI)

3801 University Avenue

Montreal Quebec

H3A 2B1



-Montreal General Hospital (MGH)

1650 Cedar Ave,

Montreal, Quebec

H3G 1A4







-Montreal Childrens' Hospital (MCH)

-Royal Victoria Hospital (RVH)

1001 Decarie

Montreal, Quebec,

H4A 3J1



-Jewish General Hospital (JGH)

3755 Chemin de la Côte-Sainte-Catherine,

Montréal, QC

H3T 1E2

* * *

# Additional Information

An integrated university program providing the possibility of joining the
Graduate Studies Program for a graduate degree, including via the CIP pathway.
Full training in neurosurgery qualifies the trainee for certification with the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons.



While instruction in primarily in English, a majority of our patients speak
French, and thus communication skills in both official languages are valued
but not essential in a successful candidate.   Our faculty are comfortable
providing instruction in English or French as desired by the trainee.

* * *

# FAQ

Is french proficiency required to train at McGill University?

McGill University proudly welcomes an international cohort of residents into
its Postgraduate Medical Education (PGME) each year. Residents gain valuable
experience serving a diverse, multicultural community in French and English.
In Quebec, residents are legally required to care for patients in French and
in English. Therefore, PGME provides residents with French language
acquisition tools and resources to help ensure each can care for Francophone
patients, as well as fully benefit from their training experience.

* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/26276?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-26276