#  McMaster University - Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology - Hamilton  
  
#  2025 R-1 Main Residency Match - first iteration  
CMG Stream for CMG  

##  Last approved on September 16, 2024

Summary of changes

## Approximate Quota: 1

##  Accreditation status : Accredited

##  [Provincial Criteria](https://www.carms.ca/match/r-1-main-residency-
match/eligibility-criteria/)

Print copy link

Link to display this program description  
  
To copy link, press Ctrl-C on your keyboard or right-click on highlighted text
and select Copy from the menu

* * *

Program Director Dr. Snezana Popovic  

Address Pathology and Molecular Medicine  
McMaster Medical Centre  
1200 Main Street West  
Hamilton, Ontario, L8N3Z5  

Work

Fax

Websites of Interest [ Laboratory Medicine Residency Training Program
](https://pathres.mcmaster.ca/residency-programs)  

* * *

# Program Contacts

Name: Katie Wang

Title: Education Associate Team Leader

Email: pmmap@mcmaster.ca

  

* * *

# Important Information

Please refer to the CaRMS website for provincial eligibility information
[CaRMS Ontario Provincial
Criteria](http://www.carms.ca/en/residency/r-1/eligibility-
criteria/provincial-criteria/ontario/).  It is important to review the
requirements carefully.

 To learn more about the program, upcoming informational events and the
McMaster PGME community please visit:
<https://pgme.mcmaster.ca/carms_r1_match_program_information/>

For further information please see our program website [Pathology and
Molecular Medicine](https://pathres.mcmaster.ca/)

* * *

# Return of Service

**Return of Service (ROS) Requirements:**

**Additional criteria for CMGs:**

Applicants with a ROS agreement in another province should ensure they are
aware of the commitments and requirements.



* * *

# General Instructions

Program application language: English

* * *

# Supporting Documentation / Information

Canadian citizenship

CaRMS partners with [third-party
organizations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360049869752) to
verify your citizenship or permanent resident status. If your status is
verified by one of these organizations, you will not need to provide
citizenship documents in your application. If your citizenship status is not
verified, you must provide one of the documents listed below.

Document must be notarized/certified

Required

Submit one of the following documents to verify your Canadian citizenship:  
• Canadian Birth Certificate or Act of Birth  
• Certificate of Canadian Citizenship  
• Confirmation of Permanent Residence in Canada  
• Passport page showing Canadian Citizenship  
• Canadian Permanent Resident Card (both sides of card)  
• Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides of card)

Proof of valid current citizenship or permanent resident status must be
provided by submitting one of the following verifications to CaRMS by the File
Review Opening deadline. Failure to provide valid proof will result in your
application being removed. No other forms of verification are acceptable:

  1. Notarized/certified photocopy of Birth Certificate/Act of Birth issued by an authority in Canada accompanied by **photo  **ID (must be valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).
  2. Failure to provide proof of citizenship will result in the removal of your application. No other forms of verification are acceptable.
  3. Documents must be notarized/certified photocopies. Notarized/certified copies must be dated and not older than two years from the date of application submission deadline; otherwise, a new notarized/certified copy is required.
  4. Confirmation of permanent residence must be accompanied by a **photo**  ID (must be a valid Canadian government-issued photo ID).

Reference documents

Required

Letter of reference  Number requested: 3

Your application will not be reviewed without THREE reference letters due by
CaRMS document deadline.

Additional documents

Required

Personal Letter  

Word count

Minimum :  None

Maximum :  None

  

Your application will not be reviewed without a Personal Letter. Due by CaRMS
document deadline.

Photo

[Note: Photograph is used as memory aid only]

Custom Résumé / CV

Due by document deadline.

Medical Student Performance Record

For current year Canadian medical graduates (CMGs), there is no action
required from you. Your medical school will automatically submit your MSPR to
CaRMS on your behalf for you to assign.  
If your MSPR is in a language other than the program language of English or
French, you are required to have the [document
translated](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034536232-Can-I-
use-a-translation-service-outside-of-CaRMS-).

Medical School Transcript

Your medical school transcript can be submitted through one of the methods
below:

  1. Obtain your [medical transcript](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131-What-is-a-medical-school-transcript-) from your school and upload it directly to your CaRMS Online account. Follow your school’s policy regarding accessing or requesting your transcript;
  2. Ask your medical school to upload your medical transcript through their [CaRMS Undergraduate Portal](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004203903-How-can-an-international-school-with-no-CaRMS-account-upload-an-electronic-MSPR-or-Transcript-for-a-student-) account; or
  3. International (IMGs) and United States (USMGs) medical graduates can transfer their transcript from their [physiciansapply.ca](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926232-) account.

Conditionally required

Medical School Diploma

Please note: Required if Medical school has been completed.

* * *

# Review Process

Applications submitted after file review has opened on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Supporting documents (excluding letters of reference) that arrive after file
review has opened  on  November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Letters of reference that arrive after the unmasking date on November 29, 2024

  Will be considered until  
  Will NOT be considered

Applications, files, late paperwork etc., submitted past CaRMS document
deadline will not be reviewed, or considered.

Reference letters from our institution and Anatomical Pathology discipline
will not be required for consideration of interview.

* * *

# Interviews

Dates:

  * January 27, 2025
  * January 28, 2025

Details regarding interview dates: Interviews will be held virtually on
January 27 and 28 2025.  
  

Notification/Invitation: Program will notify all applicants through CaRMS
Online and will send email invitations directly to applicants selected for an
interview.

Details regarding the interview process: The Program will notify all
applicants through CaRMS Online and will send email invitations directly to
applicants selected for an interview.  
  
  
Candidates will be interviewed by the Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology
Program selection sub-committee.  
  

* * *

# Selection Criteria

\- Genuine interest in Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology and familiarity with
the speciality.

\- Excellent academic standing including a basic fund of medical knowledge and
skills in clinical reasoning.

\- Broad-based research background.

\- Transfers between Laboratory Medicine sub-specialties will not be
encouraged.

\- A learning or elective experiences in the Diagnostic and Molecular
Pathology is not required and a lack of electives will not negatively impact
the file review or selection process.

## Program goals

Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology program at McMaster strives to achieve
excellence to guide decisions for best patient care and management and to
advance frontiers of patient care by integrating pathology with clinical
specialities.

Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology residency training at McMaster University
is a five year training program that offers an intensive and integrated
approach to prepare residents for careers in academic and/or clinical
practice.

The program is designed to fulfill the specialty requirements of the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, but is sufficiently flexible to
be tailored to individual needs of each resident, in particular during
elective period to fulfill practice ready requirements of each resident based
on their individual career goals and placement requirements.

Our residents will demonstrate exceptional interpersonal skills as members of
the clinical care team.  They will also demonstrate academic excellence and
research experience contributing to the specialty in evolving due to advance
in technological complexity, expanding medical knowledge, and emerging
technologies including an increased focus on personalized and precision
medicine.  They will be active members as an integral and most important part
of multidisciplinary patient diagnostic process, management and various
targeted therapies.

Our program is designed to encourage a positive work enviroment and life
balance including flexibility to allow the residents to participate in
extracurricular activities.



## Selection process goals

Identify applicants who have demonstrated familiarity with Diagnostic and
Molecular Pathology as a speciality and have genuine interest in Anatomical
Pathology.

Identify applicants with excellent academic standing and have a fund of basic
medical knowledge and clinical reasoning.

Identify applicants with broad-based interest in Diagnostic and Molecular
Pathology or background in research

Identify applicants who have demonstrated exceptional interpersonal skills
interacting with patients, families, colleagues and other members of clinical
and multidisciplinary teams.

 Identify applicants who have demonstrated familiarity with the attributes
highlighted in the CanMEDS 2015 competencies and Competency by Design Medical
Education.

Identify applicants who have demonstrated ability and enthusiasm to learn and
are able to adapt to various demands in anatomical pathology residency
training program.

## File review process

Review team composition : The review team is composed of the program director,
resident representative/ chief resident and designated faculty members
including site supervisors or subspeciality supervisors

Average number of applications received by our program in the last five years
: 51 - 200  

Average percentage of applicants offered interviews : 76 - 100 %  

Evaluation criteria :  

File component | Criteria  
---|---  
[CV](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037230192) |  We evaluate the content including academic experiences and achievements, publications, awards and research activities.   
[Electives](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002926112) |  Optional. Electives in Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology are not mandatory and a lack of electives will not negatively impact file review or selection process.   
[Examinations](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042347211) |  We do not evaluate this file component.   
[Extra-curricular](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041931752) |  Optional (We do not evaluate this file component)   
[Leadership skills](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042348291) |  Participation in various organization activities during medical or undergraduate studies   
[MSPRs](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004153143) |  Demonstrated interpersonal skills   
[Personal letters](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940351) |  Genuine interest and familiarity with the discipline, the program and program location.   
[Reference documents](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004150743) |  Interpersonal skills , professionalism, work ethics, positive interaction with patients and colleague   
[Research/Publications](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002940311) |  Genuine interest in participating in research and future research projects   
[Transcripts](https://carms.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040250131) |  Academic performance and achievements.   
  
## Elective criteria

Elective Requirements: We are looking for and rewarding applicants who have
completed a broad range of electives including in our discipline.

On Site Elective: We do not require applicants to have done onsite electives.

Other information regarding elective requirement:

We recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted candidates' opportunities
to arrange and complete electives and would like to reassure you that a lack
of elective activity will not negatively impact your application to our
program, file review or selection process. Reference letters from the
Anatomical Pathology discipline are not required and a lack of reference
letter from a discipline wil not negativly impact selection process.

## Interview process

Interview format :  
Traditional (one on one/two on one)  
Panel  
MMI or rotating station  

We routinely accommodate requests to re-schedule interviews for applicants.

Interview evaluation criteria :

Interview components | Criteria  
---|---  
Collaboration skills |  Promotion of high-quality patient care through working in a team   
Collegiality |  Ability to work well with others, attitude to create positive working and learning environment   
Communication skills |  Excellent verbal and written communication skills in English   
Health advocacy |  Demonstrated an interest and ability to respond to an individual patient's diagnostic needs and gain a basic knowledge about the importance of screening in the early detection and treatment including the role of molecular diagnostics.   
Interest in the discipline |  Demonstrated interest in the specialty ; familiar with the specialty and scope of practice   
Interest in the program |  Demonstrated interest in the program, University and program location   
Leadership skills |  Involvement in student organizations or interest in participation in the continuous improvement of patient care.   
Professionalism |  Correspondence with staff, residents and interview panel   
Scholarly activities |  Academic performance and achievements.   
  
## Information gathered outside of CaRMS application

We do not consider any information gathered outside of the CaRMS application
and local interview processes.  

## Ranking process

The behavior(s) exhibited below during the interview process may prevent an
applicant from being ranked by our program :  
Unprofessional or inappropriate behavior  
Did not attend interview  
Interview performance was not competitive  
  

* * *

# Program Highlights

McMaster University has a long history of strong residency programs in
Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology.  The program has been adaptable to the
changing landscape in healthcare and is proud to have contributed to the
national as well as international cohort of pathologists.  Currently there is
a national, as well as global, shortage of pathologists, so now is a good time
to consider pathology as a career.

The Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology program strives to achieve excellence
to guide decisions for the best patient care and management and advance
frontiers of patient care by integrating pathology with clinical specialties.

Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology residency training at McMaster University
is a five year training program that offers an intensive and integrated
approach to preparing residents for careers in academic and/or clinical
practice.

The program is designated to fulfil the speciality requirements of the Royal
College of Physicians of Surgeons of Canada, but is sufficiently flexible to
be tailored to the individual needs of each resident, which is one of the
strengths of this program.

The McMaster University Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology Residency Training
Program is designed to produce strong academic and/or community pathologists
who will be lifelong learners, able to respond to the increasing demands of
our exciting, rapidly expanding medical specialty.



  
  
  
  
  
  

* * *

# Program Curriculum

This residency program is for 5 years.

Program length of training does not exceed the Royal College or College of
Family Physicians of Canada standard.

The Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology program is designed based on the Royal
College Competency by design curriculum. It is composed of four stages:
Transition to discipline, Foundations of discipline, Core of discipline and
Transition to practice.  The residents are expected to achieve 31 entrustable
professional activities (EPAs) that are key tasks of a discipline representing
the framework for assessment.  The EPAs are linked to a specific stage of the
competency continuum and the stages of training as follow.

  * Transition to discipline – 4 EPAs (2 blocks)
  * Foundation – 5 EPAs (11 blocks)
  * Core – 17 EPAs
  * Transition to Practice- 6 EPAs

First two stages of the CBD curriculum will be completed during the first year
of training that is designed as follows:

  * Transition to Discipline :  Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology (two blocks) including boot camp (first block of training).

  * Foundation: Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology (8 blocks),  Autopsy (1 block), Internal medicine/CTU (2 blocks), Surgical oncology (1 block) and Radiation oncology (1 block).

PGY 2-5 years (Core and Transition to practice) are dedicated to training in
Diagnostic and Molecular Pathology with emphasis on surgical pathology,
autopsy, cytopathology, forensic pathology, neuropathology, pediatric
pathology, applied molecular pathology, research and electives in
subspecialties.  
  
The Program offers a wide variety of subspecialty elective rotations in
integrated hematopathology, breast, gynecologic, renal/transplant, head &
neck, soft tissue/bone, thoracic, gastrointestinal, dermatopathology,
uropathology, ophthalmic pathology, research and community practice
experience. Residents rotate through four teaching hospitals, each hospital
having their own areas of subspecialty enabling trainees to see and learn from
a large and diverse volume of surgical pathology cases with varying degrees of
complexity.

Molecular pathology training curriculum includes introduction to molecular
biology, genetics and genomics, cytogenetics, molecular cytogenetic testing,
molecular malignant hematology and applied subspecialty molecular pathology
instructions. Regional Molecular Anatomical Pathology/FISH Lab offers full
access to the residents to learn about cancer genetics for diagnosis and
personalized targeted therapies for patient management.

Research is mandatory and strongly supported by the Program. Residents are
encouraged to be involved in research projects corresponding to their area of
interest and level of training.  The Program offers conference travel fund and
Resident Research Grant. There is a Research Coordinator who serves as an
advisor for the research projects and supervises monthly Research in progress
rounds . There is a biostatistician available for the resident research.



* * *

# Training Sites

McMaster University postgraduate programs are integrated in cooperation with
the affiliated teaching hospitals St. Joseph's and Hamilton Health Science.
The regionalized laboratory services in Hamilton (Hamilton Regional Laboratory
Medicine Program-HRLMP), one of the first in Canada, provide cost-effective
patient care and coordinate residency training in an organized yet flexible
manner, tailored to individual needs, interests and career goals.

There are four teaching sites within Hamilton Regional Laboratory Medicine
Program (HRLMP): McMaster University Medical Centre and Children’s Hospital,
Hamilton General Hospital, Juravinski Hospital and Cancer Centre and St.
Joseph's Hospital.**   **Each site has specific areas of expertise, specific
pathology and clinico-pathological rounds as well as hospital rounds.

There are 35+pathologists at four sites. HRLMP provides consultation service
for Hamilton, Niagara, Haldimand, Brant and Waterloo/Wellington . There are 14
pathology consultation groups reviewing Cancer Centre consultation cases.

There are two histology labs, one consolidated regional immunohistochemical
lab, one regional cytology lab, one electron microscopy lab and one molecular
pathology lab. Genetic services include biochemical genetics, cytogenetics,
molecular genetics and cancer genetics. There are also several accredited
community hospitals where residents are scheduled to do surgical pathology
community rotations in their senior years (PGY4 and PGY5).

* * *

# Additional Information

Hamilton Regional Laboratory Medicine program (HRLMP) has over 200 faculty
members and many more non-faculty technical teaching staff. This program has
been centralized. It is collaborative regional program (HRLMP) with Hamilton
Health Sciences and St. Joseph’s Healthcare. Each site serves a high patient
volume pertaining to the excellence of that site. In addition, Hamilton also
services a population of about one million.

* * *

# FAQ

**Living In Hamilton**  
  
Hamilton, the City of Waterfalls, is uniquely situated in the Golden Horseshoe
region – close to Toronto and all of its attractions, yet far enough away from
the fast city pace of the big city.  Hamilton itself has many cultural
activities and events. There is easy access to parks, conservation areas,
walking and biking trails.  For individuals with families, there are many
family orientated communities with good schooling.  
  
For more information please visit  [Tourism
Hamilton](http://tourismhamilton.com/) and [City of
Waterfalls](http://www.cityofwaterfalls.ca/)  
  
  
**Will the Program contact me?  
**  
The Program will e-mail selected candidates to schedule an interview.  
  
The Program will _**not**_ contact you unless you have been selected to
interview.  As a courtesy, The Program may send a generalized e-mail to all
candidates, selected or not, to notify that interviews are scheduled & the
selection process is complete.  At that point, please do not anticipate
receiving an invitation to interview.





* * *

# Summary of changes

SUMMARY ID | Section | Summary of changes | Updated on | NOTIFY APPLICANTS | SECTION NAME | Actions  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---



Source: https://phx.e-carms.ca/phoenix-web/pd/ajax/program/1503/27257?programLanguage=en
ID: 1503-27257